CITY CODE
of
TEMPLE CITY, CALIFORNIA
Code current through:
Ord. 25-1081 U, passed May 13, 2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of the City of Temple City, as supplemented, contains ordinances
and resolutions up to and including ordinance 25-1081 U, passed May 13, 2025,
and resolution 18-5347, passed July 17, 2018. Ordinances and resolutions of the
City adopted after said ordinance and resolution supersede the provisions of
this code to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith.
Consult the City office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision
of the code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
      American Legal Publishing
      Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT “A”
ORDINANCE NO. 25-1082
 
AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF TEMPLE CITY, CALIFORNIA, ADOPTING ZONING
CODE TEXT AMENDMENTS, AMENDING TITLE 5 AND TITLE 9 OF THE TEMPLE CITY MUNICIPAL
CODE TO COMPLY WITH SB 1186
 
 
WHEREAS, the City of Temple City regulates businesses in Title 5 and
specifically cannabis businesses in Title 9, Chapter 1 of the Temple City
Municipal Code (TCMC); and
 
WHEREAS, on September 18, 2022, Governor Gavin Newsom signed Senate Bill 1186
(SB 1186), which prohibits a city from adopting or enforcing any regulation
that directly or indirectly prohibits the establishment of a physical premises
to provide the non-storefront retail delivery of medicinal cannabis to
qualified patients or their caregivers within the jurisdiction; and
 
WHEREAS, the City desires to amend the TCMC to reflect the requirements of SB
1186 and appropriately regulate the establishment of physical premises from
which retail sale by delivery of medicinal cannabis within the City is
conducted by a licensed non-storefront retailer; and
 
WHEREAS, changes to the TCMC are shown in strikeout for deletions and underline
for additions; and
 
WHEREAS, the City’s current regulations rely on the provisions of State law to
prohibit address the establishment of physical premises for medicinal cannabis
delivery by non-storefront retailers, and are therefore inconsistent with the
local control measures allowed by SB 1186; and
 
WHEREAS, this ordinance is necessary to implement regulations governing non-
storefront medicinal cannabis delivery premises to ensure orderly and safe
operations consistent with SB 1186, to protect neighborhoods, and to maintain
the public peace, health, and safety of the City; and
 
WHEREAS, the City Council hereby finds that this ordinance is necessary for the
preservation of the public peace, health, and safety for the reasons set forth
herein.
 
   NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF TEMPLE CITY HEREBY ORDAINS
AS FOLLOWS:
 
SECTION 1: CEQA:  The City Council finds that this Ordinance is not subject to
environmental review under the California Environmental Quality Act (“CEQA”)
pursuant to CEQA Guidelines Section 15061(b)(3) and 15305 (Class 5 – Minor
Alterations in Land Use Limitations). Section 15061(b)(3) exempts a project if
it can be seen with certainty that the project has no possibility of a
significant effect on the environment. A Class 5 exemption exempts projects
creating minor alterations in land use limitations.
SECTION 2: ZONING CODE AMENDMENT FINDINGS PER SECTION 9-1C-6. I.7.A: The City
Council finds:
 
A. The proposed amendment is consistent with the general plan and any
applicable specific plan as provided by Government Code section 65860.
 
The proposed amendment is consistent with the General Plan and any applicable
specific plan, as required by Government Code Section 65860. Specifically, the
ordinance supports Goal LU 4: Compatible Land Uses by locating non-storefront
medicinal cannabis delivery operations exclusively in the Industrial Zone,
thereby ensuring physical and operational separation from residential and other
sensitive land uses. It aligns with Policy LU 4.2 by avoiding the
overconcentration of high-impact uses in any one district and with Policy LU
4.6 by regulating the location and operation of establishments that handle
controlled substances to promote safety and compatibility. The ordinance
incorporates discretionary review through a Conditional Use Permit (CUP),
enabling project-specific consideration of design, buffering, access, lighting,
and neighborhood compatibility in accordance with Policies LU 4.7, LU 14.3, and
LU 15.5. Moreover, the ordinance includes stringent safety and security
requirements consistent with Policy LU 4.9 and LU 4.11, ensuring that permitted
operations will not pose environmental or public safety risks to the community.
Through these mechanisms, the amendment furthers General Plan objectives while
maintaining the character and livability of Temple City's neighborhoods.
 
B. The proposed amendment will not be detrimental to the public health, safety,
or welfare of the city.
 
The proposed amendment will not be detrimental to the public health, safety, or
welfare of the City. On the contrary, it strengthens local oversight in
response to SB 1186 by establishing comprehensive regulations for non-
storefront, delivery-only medicinal cannabis businesses. The ordinance includes
strict locational controls—limiting operations to the Industrial Zone and
requiring buffers from residential areas, schools, parks, and sensitive
uses—thereby minimizing potential negative impacts on neighborhoods. It also
mandates a Conditional Use Permit (CUP), ensuring that each proposed business
undergoes a thorough public review and must demonstrate compatibility with
surrounding land uses. Extensive operational and security requirements,
including surveillance, alarm systems, odor control, and employee background
checks, further safeguard public safety. These measures reflect best practices
and lessons from nearby cities, reinforcing Temple City’s commitment to
responsible regulation. As such, the ordinance maintains a high standard of
community protection and promotes the welfare of residents while complying with
State law.
 
C. The proposed amendment is consistent with other applicable provisions of
this Zoning Code.
 
The proposed amendment is consistent with other applicable provisions of the
Zoning Code. It reinforces the City’s established regulatory framework by
preserving the prohibition on storefront cannabis sales while allowing only
those non-storefront, delivery-only medicinal cannabis uses that are expressly
required by State law. The amendment integrates seamlessly with existing zoning
regulations by restricting such uses to the Industrial Zone—an area already
designated for more intensive, non-residential activities—and by requiring a
Conditional Use Permit (CUP), consistent with the Zoning Code’s provisions for
discretionary land use approvals. Furthermore, the ordinance includes detailed
development standards and operational criteria that align with the Code’s
broader goals of promoting compatible land uses, protecting neighborhood
character, and ensuring public safety. In doing so, it upholds the integrity
and intent of the Zoning Code while providing a clear, enforceable path for
compliance with SB 1186.
 
SECTION 3: Adoption: Temple City Municipal Code, Title 5 (Business Licenses and
Regulations) and Title 9, Chapter 1 (Zoning Code) is amended and restated as
set forth in Exhibit 1, attached and incorporated by this reference.
SECTION 4: No Amendments to Commercial Cannabis Prohibition: Nothing in this
Ordinance shall be construed to limit or otherwise affect the ability of the
City to adopt or enforce any regulations on commercial cannabis operations,
other than state licensed, non-storefront, delivery-only medical cannabis
retailers in the City as required pursuant to Business and Professions Code
Section 26322. Except as expressly amended in this Ordinance, the City
prohibition on commercial cannabis activities in Title 9, Article T remains in
full force and effect.
SECTION 5: Construction: This Ordinance shall be broadly construed to achieve
the purposes stated in this Ordinance. It is the City Council’s intent that the
provisions of this Ordinance be interpreted or implemented by the City and
others in a manner that facilitates the purposes set forth in this Ordinance.
SECTION 6: Enforceability: Repeal of any provision of the Temple City Municipal
Code does not affect any penalty, forfeiture, or liability incurred before, or
preclude prosecution and imposition of penalties for any violation occurring
before this Ordinance’s effective date. Any such repealed part shall remain in
full force and effect for sustaining action or prosecuting violations occurring
before the effective date of this Ordinance.
 
SECTION 7:  Severability: The City Council hereby declares that, should any
provision, section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause, phrase, or word of
this Ordinance or any part thereof, be rendered or declared invalid or
unconstitutional by any final court action in a court of competent jurisdiction
or by reason of any preemptive legislation, such decision or action shall not
affect the validity of the remaining section or portions of the Ordinance or
part thereof. The City Council hereby declares that it would have independently
adopted the remaining provisions, sections, subsections, paragraphs, sentences,
clauses, phrases, or words of this Ordinance irrespective of the fact that any
one or more provisions, sections, subsections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses,
phrases, or words may be declared invalid or unconstitutional.
 
SECTION 8: The City Clerk shall certify to the passage and adoption of this
Ordinance and to its approval by the Mayor and shall cause the same to be
published according to law.
 
 
 
PASSED, APPROVED, AND ADOPTED THIS ___ DAY OF _______ 2025.
                                      
                                      
                                      
                                     _____________________________________
                                     Cynthia Sternquist, Mayor
                                      
ATTEST:                              APPROVED AS TO FORM:
                                     
                                     
                                     
___________________________________  _____________________________________
Peggy Kuo, City Clerk                Gregory M. Murphy, City Attorney
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT 1
 
SECTION 1: Section 5-2A-0 of the TCMC is amended by adding the following
underlined language, in alphabetical order. All other contents of this section
will remain unchanged.
 
No person shall operate, and no license shall be issued for, any of the
following businesses unless a prerequisite permit, if required, has first been
obtained as specifically provided for elsewhere in this code. Upon granting of
needed prerequisite permit, a license shall be issued pursuant to this chapter,
pursuant to the zoning code, and by council action, if applicable:
 
Non-storefront, delivery-only medical cannabis retail businesses
 
 
SECTION 2: Section 5-2A-2 of the TCMC is amended to read as follows:
 
5-2A-2: GRANTING OR REFUSAL OF PERMIT:
The city council City Manager or the City Manager’s designee may, after
investigation of said application and of said business proposed to be
conducted, grant or refuse to grant a permit. The city council City Manager or
the City Manager’s designee shall have the right to refuse any such permit if
it shall determine that the granting of the same or the conduct of the business
will be contrary to the preservation of health, safety, morals or welfare of
the city or its inhabitants. If such permit is granted, the city council City
Manager or the City Manager’s designee may impose such terms, conditions and
restrictions upon the operation and conduct of such business, not in conflict
with any paramount law, as it may deem necessary or expedient to protect the
public peace, health, safety, morals or welfare of the city or its inhabitants.
Any applicant for such a permit shall be entitled to a hearing thereon before
the city council upon a request therefor. Any city council person, the City
Manager or the City Attorney may file with the city clerk a request for review
(RFR) of any decision made by the City Manager or the City Manager’s designee
under Title 5, Chapter 2.
  
A.   Timing: Such RFR must be filed within fourteen (14) days of the decision
by the City Manager or the City Manager’s designee, as a no fee filing,
together with a statement that such RFR is not indicating support for or
opposition to such decision, but is filed because the filer believes that such
decision involves a matter of such interest, import, precedent or significance
that such decision should as a matter of policy and planning be made by the
city council.
 
B.   Effect of RFR: Upon the timely filing of an RFR, the decision of the City
Manager or the City Manager’s designee will be suspended until the RFR is
determined by the city council; and the city clerk will immediately notify the
council and applicant with regard thereto and set the matter for hearing before
the city council for final determination.
 
C.   The procedures of an RFR will be the same as those for an appeal under
section 9-1C-5-G-6, 7, and 8 (Appeals).  
 
 
SECTION 3: Section 5-2A-7 of the TCMC is amended to read as follows:
 
5-2A-7: REVOCATION, SUSPENSION, HEARING, NOTICE:
When the city council City Manager or the City Manager’s designee shall issue
any permit under the terms of this chapter, the same may be revoked at any time
thereafter by said city council if said city council becomes satisfied that the
conduct of such business does or will in any manner endanger the public welfare
or that the same has been conducted in an illegal, improper or disorderly
manner. Said city council may revoke or suspend permits issued for any business
where the proprietor or person in charge thereof violates or permits any
infraction of any law of the state or any ordinance of the city. No permit for
any business shall be revoked or permanently suspended under the terms of this
chapter unless the permittee shall be adjudged guilty of a misdemeanor
hereunder or unless a notice and public hearing thereof be first given the
permittee, provided, however, that any such permit may be temporarily suspended
without such notice or hearing by the city council.
 
 
SECTION 4: Section 9-1A-12 of the TCMC is amended by adding the following word
and definition, in alphabetical order. All other contents of this section will
remain unchanged.
 
 
                                        A commercial operation that is closed
                                        to the public but delivers medical
                                        cannabis and, or medical cannabis
                                        products as part of retail sale
                                        transactions to customers at fixed
                                        locations in accordance with state law.
                                        No on-site sales, nor public access to
NON-STOREFRONT, DELIVERY-ONLY, MEDICAL, commercial facilities or delivery
CANNABIS RETAIL BUSINESSES:             vehicles, is permitted. Non-storefront,
                                        delivery-only medical cannabis
                                        retailers must be authorized to engage
                                        in the retail sale by delivery of
                                        medicinal cannabis to medicinal
                                        cannabis patients pursuant to State
                                        License: Type M-Type 9, Non-Storefront
                                        Retailer.
 
SECTION 5: Table 9-1J-2 within Section 9-1J-2 of the TCMC is amended by adding
a new land use to Table 9-1J-2. The land use will be added in an alphabetical
manner. All other contents of this section will remain unchanged.
 
 
Table 9-1J-2
Land Uses and Permit Requirements for Industrial Zone District
Land Uses                     Permit Requirement Additional Use Requirement
Non-storefront, delivery-only
medical cannabis retail       CUP                See 9-1T-22
businesses
 
SECTION 6: Section 9-1T-10 of the TCMC is amended by amending the following
definitions.
 
 
            Any business, facility, use, establishment or location, whether fixed or mobile,
            where medical marijuana is made available to, delivered to and/or distributed by
            or to three (3) or more of the following: a "primary caregiver", "a qualified
            patient", or a person with an "identification card", as these terms are defined in
            California Health and Safety Code section 11362.5 and following. A "medical
            marijuana dispensary" does not include the following uses, as long as the location
            of such uses are otherwise regulated by this code or applicable law:
            ∙   a clinic licensed pursuant to chapter 1 of division 2 of the Health and Safety
            Code,
MEDICAL     ∙   a healthcare facility licensed pursuant to chapter 2 of division 2 of the
MARIJUANA   Health and Safety Code,
DISPENSARY: ∙   a residential care facility for persons with chronic life-threatening illness
            licensed pursuant to chapter 3.01 of division 2 of the Health and Safety Code,
            ∙   a residential care facility for the elderly licensed pursuant to chapter 3.2
            of division 2 of the Health and Safety Code, a residential hospice,
            ∙   a home health agency licensed pursuant to chapter 8 of division 2 of the
            Health and Safety Code, as long as any such use complies strictly with applicable
            law including, but not limited to, Health and Safety Code section 11362.5 and
            following, or
            ∙   A medical marijuana dispensary does not include a non-storefront, delivery-
            only medical, cannabis retail business.
 
 
SECTION 7: Subsection B of  Section 9-1T-10of the TCMC is amended to add the
following:
 
  B.   Prohibited Activities:
 
8. Nothing in Section 9-1T-10 prohibits the establishment of non-storefront,
delivery-only medical cannabis retail businesses. See section 9-1T-22 for the
related requirements for these uses.
 
 
SECTION 8: Title 9, Chapter 1, Article T  of the TCMC is amended to include a
section 9-1T-22 as follows.
 
9-1T-22: NON-STOREFRONT DELIVERY-ONLY, MEDICAL, CANNABIS RETAIL BUSINESS:
 
A.   Definitions: The following definitions apply unless the context in which
they are used clearly requires otherwise:
1.   APPLICANT: A person or entity that submits an application for a non-
storefront, delivery-only medical cannabis retail regulatory permit under this
article.
2.   CANNABIS ACCESSORIES. Has the same meaning as Health and Safety Code
Section 11018.2.
3.   DAY CARE CENTER: Has the same meaning as in Section 26001 of the Business
and Professions Code.
4.   NON-STOREFRONT, DELIVERY-ONLY MEDICAL CANNABIS RETAIL. A commercial
operation that is closed to the public but delivers medical cannabis and/or
medical cannabis products as part of retail sale transactions to customers at
fixed locations in accordance with state law. Non-storefront, delivery-only
medical cannabis retailers must be authorized to engage in the retail sale by
delivery of medicinal cannabis to medicinal cannabis patients pursuant to State
License: Type M-Type 9, Non-Storefront Retailer.
B.   Conditional Use Permit Required: A non-storefront delivery-only, medical,
cannabis retail use is permitted only in the Industrial Zone and requires a
conditional use permit (see Table 9-1J-2 Land Uses and Permit Requirements for
Industrial Zone District).
 
C.   Location Standards:
 
1.   A non-storefront delivery-only, medical, cannabis retail use must not be
located:
a.   On a property that has a property line along Lower Azusa Road or Temple
City Boulevard;
b.   Within 500 feet of any property zoned R-1, in Temple City;
c.   Within 500 feet of all assembly and religious assembly use within the city
limits;
d.   Within 500 feet of all public and private schools, childcare facilities,
and daycare facilities within the city limits;
e.   Within 500 feet of all public parks and all public facilities (such as
city hall, library, sheriff’s station, police department, Sheriff Station, fire
department, etc.);
f.   Within 500 feet of another similarly classified business; and
g.   Within or share tenant space with another business.
2.   The distance specified will be measured by the horizontal distance
measured in a straight line from the property line of where the proposed
business is to be located to the closest property line of the lot on which the
use is located without regard to intervening structures.
 
D.   Accessory Use: A non-storefront delivery-only, medical, cannabis retail
use is not allowed as an incidental, ancillary, or accessory use to another
use.
 
E.   Safety and Security Plan: The applicant for a non-storefront delivery-
only, medical, cannabis retail use must submit a Safety and Security Plan that
is reviewed and approved by the City Manager, or his or her designee. The Plan
must include all of the following:
1.   State License: The state license or the status of the state license
application.
2.   Odor Mitigation Plan: The Plan must be certified by a professional
engineer or industrial hygienist that includes the following:
a.   Operational processes and maintenance plan, including activities to ensure
the odor mitigation system remains adequate and functional;
b.   Odor mitigation training and operational procedure for all employees; and
c.   Engineering controls, which may include carbon filtration or other methods
of air cleaning, and evidence that such controls are sufficient to effective
mitigation odors from all sources. All odor mitigation systems and plans
submitted must be consistent with accepted and best available industry-specific
technologies designed to effectively mitigate cannabis odors.
3.   Coverage of Video Surveillance: The establishment of a 24-hour video
surveillance recording system, to monitor the entire interior (except
bathrooms), main entrance, and exterior areas, including parking areas to
discourage loitering, crime and illegal activities. The areas to be covered by
the security cameras include but are not limited to the storage areas, the
dispensing areas, delivery areas, all doors and windows and any other areas as
determined by the City Manager or the City Manager’s designee. The cameras must
be in use 24 hours a day, seven days a week. The camera and recording system
must be of adequate quality, and cover all areas required by state law.
4.   Video Surveillance: The video surveillance system must be stored for a
minimum of 90 days and be made available to law enforcement and code
enforcement upon request.
5.   Alarm System: Professionally and centrally monitored fire, robbery, and
burglar alarm systems must be installed and maintained in good working
condition at the premises in accordance with California Code of Regulations,
Title 4, Division 19, Chapter 3, Section 15047.
6.   Lighting: The parking lot and exterior of the establishment must install
and maintain good lighting which provides at least 2-foot candles of coverage
on all exterior portions of the property. Lighting must be shielded to the
extent feasible from neighboring properties. A photometric study must be
submitted, reviewed and approved by the Planning Commission as part of the
Conditional Use Permit. Additional or replacement fixtures may be required to
meet this standard.
7.   Training: Provide training to staff regarding security protocols and
emergency procedures in accordance with state law.
8.   Right of Inspection: All vehicles and facilities permitted under this
section are subject to inspection by City personnel or County Sheriff’s
Department personnel any time the operator is exercising privileges under an
operator permit. Prior notice of an inspection is not required.
9.   Secure Storage: All medical cannabis and medical cannabis products must be
kept in accordance with California Code of Regulations, Title 4, Division 19,
Chapter 3 Section 15000.7 during business and non-business hours. Each non-
storefront medical cannabis delivery-only operation must ensure that all
limited access areas and be securely locked using commercial grade, non-
residential door locks. Commercial grade, non-residential door locks must also
be used on all points of entry and exit to the licensed premises.
10.   Owner/Employee Roster and Notice of Change: The business must keep a
roster on file with the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department and City with
the names and birth dates of all current employees, operator, and owner of the
delivery-only operation. The business must provide written notice to both
entities of any change in ownership or employees within 30 days of such change.
11.   Other Necessary Security Requirements: The City Manager, or his or her
designee, may prescribe additional safety or security measures that he or she
deems reasonable and necessary in light of the nature and location of a
specific operation.
 
F.   Operational Standards
1.   Business License and Permit: The business must comply with sections 5-1B-
19 through 5-1B-20 and a business permit is required per 5-2A-0 through 5-2A-9
(Business Permits).
2.   Hours of Operation: Non-storefront, delivery-only medical cannabis retail
operations may only operate during the hours authorized by their state license
and the Department of Cannabis Control regulations.
3.   Delivery Requirements: The delivery of cannabis to any person within the
City limits is prohibited, except for delivery to medicinal cannabis to
medicinal cannabis patients or their primary caregivers. These deliveries to
medicinal cannabis patients or their primary caregivers are subject to the
following requirements:
a.   Deliveries are only permitted to occur from the hours of 6:00 a.m. to 10:
00 p.m.;
b.   Cannabis and cannabis products must only be transported inside of a
vehicles or trailer and shall not be visible or identifiable from outside of
the vehicle or trailer; and
c.   Deliveries are only permitted to a physical address not located on
publicly owned land or any address on land or in a building leased by a public
agency. A delivery employee must not deliver cannabis goods to a school
providing instruction in kindergarten or any grades 1 through 12, day care
center, or youth center.
4.   Product Visibility: No cannabis or cannabis products may be visible from
outside the non-storefront medicinal cannabis delivery-only operations’ fixed
location or delivery vehicles.
5.   Signs and Displays: No visual display, sign, or condition on the exterior
of the non-storefront, delivery-only medicinal cannabis retail operation’s
fixed locations or delivery vehicles will indicate the types of products being
stored inside the fixed location or transported in the delivery vehicles. Signs
are limited to the name of the business only and must be in compliance with the
zoning code. Signs must not contain advertising for other companies, brands,
goods, or services.
6.   No Public Access: Non-storefront, delivery-only medicinal cannabis retail
operations must not permit public access to fixed locations or delivery
vehicles. Only employees, operators, and owners of non-storefront, delivery-
only medicinal cannabis retail operations may access the business’ fixed
locations or delivery vehicles
7.   No On-Site Sale: Non-storefront, delivery-only medicinal cannabis retail
operations must only conduct sales via delivery. On-site sales are prohibited.
8.   No Cannabis Paraphernalia: Non-storefront, delivery-only medicinal
cannabis retail operation must not sell or display any products other than
medicinal cannabis or medicinal cannabis products. No cannabis-related
paraphernalia or any other products, including but not limited to alcohol and
tobacco products are allowed.
9.   Under 21 Years of Age: People under the age of 21 years of age must not be
in a commercial vehicle or trailer transporting cannabis or cannabis products.
Only a licensee, an employee of the license distributor, or security personnel
who meets the requirement of California Code of Regulations, Title 4, Division
19, Chapter 3, Section 15045 may be in a vehicle while transporting cannabis or
cannabis products.
10.   Amount of Transported Cannabis and Cash: No more than the maximum amount
of medical cannabis permitted under state law in total value of project and
cash may be transported at any one time in an individual vehicle during
deliveries.
11.   Compliance with Other Laws: All non-storefront, delivery-only medicinal
cannabis retail operations must be conducted in accordance with all local and
state laws.
12.   Other Necessary Operational Requirements: The city may prescribe
additional operational requirement deemed reasonable and necessary considering
the nature and location of a specific operation.
13.   Acceptance of Cash: No receiving of cash may occur between a customer and
the retailer on the non-storefront premises. Cash may be received when a
delivery is completed. The business is strongly encouraged to use other
payments options besides cash.
14.   Security Bars and Roll-Up Gates: Any security bars, roll-up gates, and
such may not be placed on the exterior of the structure and must comply with
all fire and building codes. Bars must be able to be opened from the inside of
the building without the need for a key, tool, special knowledge, or excessive
force. Security bars must allow visibility into the business to the
satisfaction of the City Manager or the City Manager’s designee.
15.   Storefront Visibility: Any window area within three feet above the ground
to seven feet above the ground must not have any window signs, furniture, or
other obstructions that would reduce or preclude visibility into the
storefront. The requirement applies to area from the window to 10 feet within
the storefront.
16.   Closed to the Public: Access to the business may not be granted to the
public.
17.   Selling Other Products: The business must not sell or display any
products other than medicinal cannabis and medicinal cannabis products.
18.   Odor Control: All non-storefront, delivery-only medical cannabis retail
operations must incorporate and maintain adequate on-site odor control measure
in compliance with the Odor Mitigation Plan such that the odors as a result of
storing or transporting of cannabis and cannabis-related products cannot be
readily detected from outside of the structure or vehicle in which the business
operates.
a.   The applicant must submit an Odor Mitigation Plan certified by a
professional engineer or industrial hygienist that includes the following:
1.   Operational processes and maintenance plan, including activities to ensure
the odor mitigation system remains adequate and functional;
2.   Odor mitigation training and operational procedures for all employees;
3.   Engineering controls, which may include carbon filtration or other methods
of air cleansing, and evidence that such control are sufficient to effectively
mitigate odors form all odor sources. All odor mitigation systems and plans
submitted must be consistent with accepted and best available industry-specific
technologies designed to effectively mitigate cannabis odors.
19.   Surveillance Systems: Security surveillance cameras and video recording
systems must be installed and maintained in good condition as described in the
security plan.
20.   Security Video Retention: Video from the security surveillance cameras
must be maintained for at least 90 days and must be made immediately available
to City representatives upon request.
21.   On-site Security Guard: The business must employ at least one armed,
uniformed security guard licensed by the State of California to be present
during normal business hours to include one-half hour before and after normal
business hours. The security guard must be charged with preventing violations
of the law; reporting suspicious people, vehicles, and circumstances; and all
criminal offences to the L.A. County Sheriff's Department. Security guards must
be uniformed in such a manner to be readily identifiable as a security guard by
the public and must be duly licensed as a security guard as required by
applicable provisions of state law. The sole purpose of the security guard must
be to provide for the protection and safety of the business and its authorized
personnel and said guard must not be required to perform additional, non-
security-related duties within the business. The City reserves the right to
review the number of guards and may require that the number of guards be
increased as necessary.
22.   No Loitering: Individuals are not allowed to remain on the premises
unless they are engaging in activity expressly related to the operation of the
business.
23.   Report of Criminal Activity: The business must immediately report to the
Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department:
a.   Any criminal conduct committed by owners, operators, agents or employees;
b.   Any crimes that occur at the fixed location or in a vehicle owned or used
by the business;
c.   Any crimes against any employee, agent, operator, or owner of the business
during the performance of his/her duties; and/or
d.   Any crimes against any customer of the business during any transaction
conducted by the business.
24.   Delivery Vehicle Requirements:
a.   All delivery vehicles must be equipped with a Global Position System (GPS)
tracking device. Data from the GPS tracking device must be retained for 30
days. GPS data must be made available to the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s
Department upon request.
b.   All cannabis, cannabis products, and cash must be stored during transport
in secure safes or lockboxes permanently affixed to the delivery vehicle.
c.   All delivery vehicles must be registered with the City or the L.A. County
Sheriff’s Department including the make, model, licenses plate vehicle
identification number and registration number of such vehicles.
d.   All cannabis delivery vehicles must be equipped with, and utilize, a
vehicle alarm system.
e.   All medical cannabis delivery vehicles must have and use a direct
communication system with the non-storefront, delivery-only medical cannabis
business.
f.   All medical cannabis delivery vehicles must not carry more medical
cannabis than allowed by State law and required to fulfill all immediate
delivery requests.
25.   Compliance with Security Plan: The business must implement and maintain a
security plan approved by the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department and the
City. Such plan must include, at a minimum the above listed security measures.
26.   In Transit Requirements:
a.   Only owners, operators, or employees of the business may be present in
vehicles during deliveries.
b.   No more than the maximum amount of medical cannabis permitted under state
law in total value of produce and cash may be transported at any one time in an
individual vehicle during deliveries.
c.   Delivery vehicles may only travel between fixed locations of the business
and the residential addresses specified by customers while transporting medical
cannabis and, or medical cannabis products.
d.   All delivery vehicles must carry valid registration and proof of
employment at a licensed non-storefront, delivery-only medical cannabis retail
operation.
e.   All delivery vehicles must carry a copy of the business’ regulatory
permit, a copy of the delivery request, a form of government-issued
identification, and all other information required by State law. The driver
must present these documents upon the request of law enforcement, the City
Manager, or the City Manager’s designee.
f.   All drivers must carry an inventory log of cannabis and cannabis products
being transported.
g.   Delivery drivers must be trained in the process for verifying that medical
cannabis and medical cannabis products are delivered to qualified patients and
adult-use customers and that the delivery drivers are trained in the proper
usage of medical cannabis.
27.   Notification Requirements: The business must notify the Los Angeles
County Sheriff’s Department and the City within 24 hours of discovering any of
the following:
a.   Significant discrepancies identified during inventory: The level of
significance will be determined by the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department
or the City Manager’s designee.
b.   The loss or unauthorized alteration of records related to medical
cannabis, medical cannabis products, registered qualifying patients, primary
caregivers, or a non-storefront, delivery-only medical cannabis retail
operation’s agents, owners, operators, investors, partners, or employees.
c.   Any other material breach of security.
28.   Contact Requirements: The business must provide the City Manager or his/
her designee with the name, cell phone number, and email address of an on-site
representative to whom the City and the public can provide notice if there are
any operational problems associated with the business. Each business must make
every good faith effort to encourage residents and the public to call this
representative to resolve any operational problems before any calls or
complaints are made to the City or law enforcement.
29.   Owner, Operator, and Employee Requirements: To be eligible to obtain a
regulatory permit from the City the business must meet the following criteria:
a.   All owners, operators, partners, investors, employees, and agents must be
21 years of age or older and must submit to a background search.
b.   No owners, operators, partners, investors, employees, and agents of the
business are allowed to have been convicted of a felony or crime of moral
turpitude to have been found by any State or local government to have committed
a violation of the Medicinal and Adult-Use Cannabis Regulation and Safety Act
(MAUCRSA). The City reserves the right to waive this requirement in relation to
violations of MAUCRSA if he or she determines that the violation was minor in
nature and would not undermine the safe and effective operation of the proposed
business in accordance with applicable laws.
30.   Legal, Fully Enclosed and Secure Structure: The business must be within a
legal, fully enclosed and secure structure compliant with all applicable state
and local laws.
31.   No Additional Business: The business must not grow cultivate,
manufacture, test or process cannabis. The business must not be operated as a
cannabis cultivation, manufacturing, or testing facility, unless expressly and
affirmatively authorized by State and local law.
32.   Delivery Recipients: Delivery must only be to medicinal cannabis patients
or their primary caregivers only.
a.   The business must not dispense or delivery medicinal cannabis to any
person without a physician’s recommendation. The physician’s recommendation may
not be made onsite.
b.   The business must only deliver medical cannabis to individuals who provide
government-issued identification and adequate documentation demonstrating
qualification to purchase, obtain, or possess medicinal cannabis on their own
behalf or as their primary caregiver.
c.   The physician’s recommendation must be verified by the business prior to
dispensing or delivery any medical cannabis to a qualified patient or primary
caregiver, and at least every six months thereafter.
33.   Inspected Products: Each business must deliver medical cannabis products
only after those medical cannabis products have been inspected and quality
tested by a qualified third-party testing facility as required by applicable
State law.
34.   Labeling and Packaging: Prior to sale for a delivery, medical cannabis
products must be labeled and placed in tamper-evident packaging. Labels and
packages of medical cannabis products must, at minimum, meet the requirements
specified under applicable State laws.
35.   Tracking System: The business must be compliant in the state mandate
California Cannabis Track and Trace system.
36.   Parking Requirements: The parking requirement for this use will be set by
the Conditional Use Permit. The applicant will conduct a parking study looking
at similarly situated uses to provide evidence of sufficient parking.
 
G.   Record Keeping Requirements:
1.   The business must keep the following records:
a.   All delivery vehicle maintenance records.
b.   All delivery vehicle ownership records.
c.   All shipping manifests for completed and in-transit deliveries.
d.   A contemporaneous inventory log.
e.   Delivery log including location, time, and delivery driver.
f.   Quality assurance details for all cannabis and cannabis products stored
and/or delivered by the business.
g.   A copy of the physician’s recommendation and, if using a primary
caregiver, a notarized written authorization from the patient to be represented
by such primary caregiver.
h.   Other records as needed to account for the total quantity of medical
cannabis retained, sold, and delivered on or form the premises.
2.   The business must maintain patient records in a secure location within the
City, available for inspection upon demand by the City Manager, the City
Manager’s designee, or law enforcement.
3.   The above records must be maintained for three years from the date
created.
 
H.   Promulgation of Regulations, Standards, and Other Legal Duties: In
addition to any regulations adopted by the City Council, the City Manager is
authorized to establish any additional rules, regulations, and standards
governing the issuance, denial or renewal of the non-storefront, delivery-only
medical cannabis retail permits, the ongoing operation of such a business and
the City’s oversight, or concerning any other subject determined to be
necessary to carry out the purposed of this article. Regulations promulgated by
the City Manager will become effective upon the date of publication.
 
I.   Limitations on City’s Liability:
1.   To the fullest extent permitted by law, the City does not assume any
liability whatsoever, with respect to approving any permit pursuant to this
article or the operation of any such business approved under this article.
2.   As a condition of approval of a permit in this article, the applicant or
its legal representative must do the following:
a.   Execute an agreement indemnifying the City from any claims, damages,
injuries, or liability of any kind associated with operation of the business,
issuance of a permit to the business, or the prosecution of the business or its
owners, managers, directors, officers, employees, or its qualified patient or
primary caregivers for violation of federal or state laws;
b.   Maintain insurance in the amounts and of the types that are acceptable to
the City Manager or designee; and
c.   Reimburse the City for all costs and expenses, including but not limited
to legal fees and costs and court costs, which the City may be required to pay
as a result of any legal challenge related to the City’s approval of a
conditional use permit or a non-storefront, delivery-only medical cannabis
retail regulatory permit or related to the City’s approval of such a business.
The City, at its sole discretion, may participate at its own expense in the
defense of any such action, but such participation shall relieve the applicant
of any of the obligations imposed hereunder.
 
J.   Identification Card Required: The permittee and all employees must obtain
an identification card issued under the provision of 9-1T-22 (Title 9, Chapter
1, Article T) and must always have such identification card in their possession
while engaged in the activity regulated by this article.
 
K.   Enforcement:
1.   A violation of this article is subject to the administrative penalty
provisions of Title 1, Chapter 4 of this Code. Where the violation is of a
continuing nature, each day or portion thereof where in the violation continues
constitutes a separate and distinct violation.
2.   A permit to operate a non-storefront, delivery-only medical cannabis
retail business may be revoked or suspended pursuant to Title 5 of this code.
 
L.   Findings of Fact: In addition to the standard findings of fact for a
conditional use permit, the decision-making authority may only approve the
conditional use permit if all the following findings are also made.
1.   The proposed location of the non-storefront, delivery-only medical
cannabis retail business will not be detrimental to adjacent property or to the
public welfare.
2.   The proposed use will have adequate buffering between the use and
residential areas and will not adversely interfere with the use and enjoyment
of residential properties in the vicinity of the proposed development.
3.   The proposed use will not result in detrimental impact to existing or
anticipated residential or commercial development in the vicinity of the
project with regard to traffic levels, traffic safety, pedestrian-vehicle
conflicts, pedestrian safety, hazards, and loading or manner of operation.
4.   The proposed use will not create excessive noise, unpleasant odor, noxious
fumes, excessive lighting, increased litter, or substantial interference with
neighboring properties or uses due to the activities associated with the
proposed use or its hours of operation.
5.   The proposed use will not create an over concentration of non-storefront,
delivery-only, medical cannabis retailers in the vicinity.
 
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 14-991
CITY OF TEMPLE CITY
AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF TEMPLE CITY ADOPTING A
RECODIFIED TEMPLE CITY MUNICIPAL CODE
   WHEREAS, Sterling Codifiers, Coeur d'Alene, Idaho, has compiled, edited, and
published a codification of the permanent and general ordinances of the city of
Temple City, California; and
   WHEREAS, there is now, and will have been for at least fifteen (15) days
preceding the date of the hearing to be held for the adoption of this
ordinance, on file in the office of the city clerk, for public inspection, one
copy of a document entitled "Temple City municipal code".
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF TEMPLE CITY HEREBY ORDAINS AS
FOLLOWS:
   SECTION 1: Adoption. There is adopted the recodified Temple City municipal
code (the code) as compiled, edited, and published by Sterling Codifiers, Coeur
d'Alene, Idaho, to replace, in its entirety, the Temple City municipal code in
effect on the date this ordinance is adopted.
   SECTION 2: Title-Citation-Reference. The code shall be known as the "Temple
City municipal code" and it shall be sufficient to refer to the code as the
"Temple City municipal code," "the code," or "the TCMC" in any prosecution for
the violation of any provision of the code or in any proceeding at law or
equity. It is sufficient to designate any ordinance adding to, amending,
correcting, or repealing all or any part or portion of the code as an addition
to, amendment to, correction of, or repeal of the code. References may be made
to the titles, chapters, sections, and subsections of the code and such
references shall apply to those titles, chapters, sections, or subsections as
they appear in the code.
   SECTION 3: Reference Applies To All Amendments. Whenever a reference is made
to the code as the Temple City municipal code, the code, the TCMC, or to any
portion thereof, or to any ordinance of the city of Temple City codified in the
code, the reference shall apply to all amendments, corrections, and additions
heretofore, now, or hereafter made.
   SECTION 4: Title, Chapter, And Section Headings. Title, chapter, and section
headings contained in the code shall not be deemed to govern, limit, modify, or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning, or intent of the provisions of any
title, chapter, or section in the code.
   SECTION 5: Reference To Specific Ordinances. The provisions of the code
shall not in any manner affect matters of record which refer to, or are
otherwise connected with, ordinances which are therein specifically designated
by number or otherwise and which are included within the code, but such
reference shall be construed to apply to the corresponding provisions contained
within the code.
   SECTION 6: Effect Of Code On Past Actions And Obligations. The adoption of
the code does not affect prosecutions for ordinance violations committed prior
to the effective date of the code, does not waive any fee or penalty due and
unpaid on the effective date of the code, and does not affect the validity of
any bond or cash deposit posted, filed, or deposited pursuant to the
requirements of any ordinance.
   SECTION 7: Constitutionality. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause,
or phrase of the code is for any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional,
then such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portion of
the code.
   SECTION 8: References To Prior TCMC. Unless otherwise expressly stated or
the context requires, references in city forms, documents, and regulations to
the chapters, sections, and provisions of the prior TCMC shall be construed to
apply to the corresponding chapters, sections, and provisions contained within
the code.
   SECTION 9: This ordinance shall take effect thirty (30) days after its
adoption. The city clerk, or her duly appointed deputy, shall attest to the
adoption of this ordinance and shall cause this ordinance to be posted in the
manner required by law.
PASSED, APPROVED, AND ADOPTED THIS 15th DAY OF APRIL, 2014.
         
      MAYOR
ATTEST:      APPROVED AS TO FORM:
         
City Clerk      City Attorney
   I, Peggy Kuo, city clerk of the city of Temple City, hereby certify that the
foregoing ordinance no. 14-991 was introduced at the regular meeting of the
city council of the city of Temple City held on the 1st day of April 2014, its
second reading on 15th day of April, 2014, and was duly passed, approved and
adopted by said council at the regular meeting held on 15th day of April, 2014
by the following vote:
AYES:   Councilmember: Sternquist, Vizcarra, Yu, Chavez, Blum
NOES:    Councilmember: None
ABSENT:    Councilmember: None
ABSTAIN:    Councilmember: None
         
City Clerk
CHARTER OF THE CITY OF TEMPLE CITY
PREAMBLE
   We, the people of the city of Temple City, county of Los Angeles, state of
California, do ordain and establish this charter as the organic law of said
city under and by virtue of the constitution of the said state.
Article I
Status Of City
Section 100. Name Of City.
The general law city, in existence prior to the effective date of this charter,
known as the "city of Temple City", shall be deemed, for all purposes, to
continue in existence, as a chartered city, from and after the effective date
of this charter. Said city, as a chartered city, shall continue to be known as
the "city of Temple City".
Section 101. Boundaries.
The boundaries of the city of Temple City, as a chartered city, shall be
identical to the boundaries of said city of Temple City, a general law city, as
were lawfully in existence as of the effective date of this charter. After the
effective date of this charter, the boundaries may be altered only as provided
by applicable or general law.
Section 102. Effective Date Of Charter.
This charter shall be effective from and after the date of its approval by the
legislature of the state of California.
Article II
Definitions And Interpretation Of Charter
Section 200. Definitions.
For the purpose of this charter, the following words and phrases shall be
deemed to have the meanings hereinafter ascribed to them, unless from the
context thereof a contrary meaning is clearly intended:
Adjudicated Newspaper shall mean a newspaper which is adjudicated as such
pursuant to the provisions of section 6000 et. seq. of the Government Code of
the state of California.
Applicable Law shall mean an enactment of the legislature which lawfully
governs, allows or regulates activities of cities having a charter adopted
pursuant to the provisions of the constitution.
Appointive Officers shall mean those officers designated as such by this
charter.
Ralph M. Brown Act shall mean that act of the state legislature entitled as
such, as the same now exists or as the same may hereinafter be lawfully
amended, designated as section 54950 et. seq. of the Government Code.
Charter shall mean this charter as it now exists, or as it may hereafter be
amended.
City shall mean the city of Temple City, established as a charter city by this
charter.
City Attorney shall mean the duly appointed, qualified and acting city attorney
of the city.
City Clerk shall mean the duly appointed, qualified and acting city clerk of
the city.
City Council shall mean the legislative body of city.
City Manager shall mean the duly appointed, qualified and acting city manager
of city.
City Treasurer shall mean the duly appointed, qualified and acting city
treasurer of city.
Constitution shall mean the constitution of the state of California.
Contractor shall mean any person or entity that has an existing contract,
agreement, or other arrangement to provide the city with goods, services, or
other items, or who has an interest in or expectation of obtaining such a
contractual arrangement in the future. The term shall include any agent or
representative of the contractor and where the contractor is a business entity
shall include all owners, shareholders, principals, partners, members,
officers, directors, and managers. The term contractor shall not include any
person or entity contracted to provide the services of an appointive officer of
the city.
Council Member shall mean a member of the city council of city.
County shall mean the county of Los Angeles.
Developer shall mean any person or entity who is currently seeking, or who has
an interest in or expectation of seeking from the city a specific plan, zone
change, development agreement, density bonus, subdivision tract map, or
conditional use permit for a sensitive use (i.e. adult business, massage
parlor, etc.), or an industrial or commercial use having a building area of
20,000 square feet or more. The term shall include any agent or representative
of the developer and where the developer is a business entity shall include all
owners, shareholders, principals, partners, members, officers, directors, and
managers.
Elections Code shall mean the Elections Code of the state of California as the
same exists as of the effective date of this charter, and as the same may
hereinafter be amended by lawful authority.
Elective Officers shall mean those officers designated as such by this charter.
Elector shall mean any person who qualifies for the right of suffrage pursuant
to article II, section 1 of the constitution of the state.
Former City shall mean the city of Temple City, a general law city, organized
and existing as such, prior to the effective date of this charter, and, as to
which the city is its successor in interest, by reason of the adoption of this
charter.
General Law shall mean an enactment of the legislature of the state which
lawfully governs, allows or regulates activities of a general law city, as
defined in section 34100 of the Government Code of the state of California,
which applies to the city of Temple City, solely by reason of the provisions of
this charter, or an ordinance adopted by the city council of the city.
Government Code shall mean the Government Code of the state of California as
the same exists as of the effective date of this charter, and as the same may
hereinafter be amended by lawful authority.
May is permissive.
Mayor shall mean the duly appointed, qualified and acting mayor of city.
Mayor Pro Tempore shall mean the duly appointed, qualified and acting mayor pro
tempore of city.
Municipal Affair shall mean those matters which have been, and continue to be,
held to be such by courts of record in the state of California.
Person shall mean any person, firm, association, organization, partnership,
business, trust company or corporation, and any municipal, political or
governmental corporation, district, body or agency, other than the city of
Temple City.
Registered Qualified Voter shall mean an elector who is lawfully registered,
pursuant to applicable provisions of the Elections Code, and is thus entitled
to cast a ballot in any national, state or local election held within the city.
Shall is mandatory.
State shall mean the state of California. (Amended Res. 16-5187)
Section 201. Reference To Laws.
Wherever reference is made in this charter to any law or code provision enacted
by the legislature of the state, or to any constitutional provision, said
reference shall mean and include any amendment thereto, enacted after the
effective date of this charter; provided, however, if any such law is repealed
in whole or in part, the city council, by ordinance, may enact provisions,
consistent with this charter, covering the substance of such repealed
legislation.
Article III
Succession
Section 300. Rights And Liabilities.
The city shall be deemed, for all purposes, to be the successor in interest to
the former city. The said city shall succeed to, own, possess, hold and control
all rights, including, but not limited to, rights in and to personal and real
property owned, possessed, controlled or held by said former city as of the
effective date of this charter. Said city shall be deemed, for all purposes, to
be subject to all debts, obligations, liabilities and duties of the said former
city, as such existed as of the effective date of this charter.
Section 301. Validation Of Prior Acts.
All lawful acts heretofore taken by, or on behalf of, the said former city, by
its city council, or any officer, employee, commission, committee or board
thereof, shall be deemed, for all purposes, to continue in full force and
effect from and after the effective date of this charter. The validation of
such acts as provided for herein shall include, but not be limited to, all
lawful ordinances, resolutions, rules, regulations or any portion thereof, in
force as of the effective date of this charter, except to the extent that any
such act is inconsistent, in whole or in part, with any provisions of this
charter; to that extent the same shall be deemed void for all purposes. Any
such act, so validated, shall be subject to amendment, modification or repeal
by lawful authority pursuant to this charter.
Section 302. Continuation Of Status Of Officers And Employees.
All officers and employees, including but not limited to, elective officers of
the said former city shall, as of the effective date of this charter, continue
to perform the duties of their respective offices and positions. Except as
otherwise expressly provided in this charter, the adoption hereof, as to such
officers and employees, shall not affect or impair any right, privilege or
retirement benefit of such officers and employees lawfully held by them as of
the effective date of this charter. The tenure of, and the performance of
duties by, all such officers and employees shall be subject to the provisions
hereof.
Section 303. Public Contracts.
All contracts law entered into by the said former city, prior to the effective
date of this charter, shall continue in full force and effect, notwithstanding
the adoption of this said charter.
Section 304. Pending Proceedings.
Any action or proceeding, civil, criminal or administrative, pending as of the
effective date of this charter, as to which the said former city, or any
officer or employee thereof, is a party or participant, shall not be affected,
altered or abated by reason of the adoption of this charter or by any provision
hereof. Any such action or proceeding shall be processed to its conclusion, in
accordance with all laws applicable thereto, notwithstanding the adoption of
this said charter.
Article IV
Powers Of City
Section 400. Powers.
The city, from and after the effective date hereof, shall have the power to
make and enforce all ordinances and regulations in respect to municipal
affairs, subject only to such restrictions and limitations as may be provided
in this charter, and in the constitution of the state of California. The said
city shall also have the rights, powers and privileges heretofore or hereafter
established, granted or prescribed by any lawful authority, including, but not
limited to, those rights, powers and privileges now or hereafter accorded to
general law cities, and such authority as a chartered city might lawfully
exercise under and by virtue of, the constitution of the state.
Section 401. Limitation Of Powers.
The enumeration in this charter of any specific power shall not be deemed, for
any purpose, to be a limitation upon the general grants of power, as set forth
in this charter.
Section 402. Exercise Of Powers.
The city shall exercise its powers in the manner established by applicable laws
of the state, unless a different procedure is established by this charter or by
an ordinance lawfully adopted by the city council of said city.
Section 403. Joint Powers.
The city may exercise all or any of the powers herein set forth singly or
jointly with other public agencies in the manner provided by general law.
Article V
Municipal Elections
Section 500. Conduct Of Elections.
Except as otherwise provided by ordinance, all municipal elections hereafter
conducted by or on behalf of the city shall be held and processed in accordance
with the provisions of the constitution and the Elections and Government Codes.
Section 501. Elective Officers.
The elective officers of this city shall be five (5) members of the city
council, each of whom shall hold the office of council member.
Elective officers of the city shall be elected for four year terms by the
registered qualified voters of the city, on an at large basis, at general or
special municipal elections, held for that purpose. General municipal elections
shall be conducted on the first Tuesday after the first Monday in March of
even-numbered years, commencing in March of 2020 and as more fully set forth in
Elections Code section 2601.
To effectuate the change from odd-numbered to even-numbered years, the elective
officers holding office as of the effective date of this section shall have
their current terms extended by one (1) year.
(4/12/94; amd. Res. 16-5187; Res. 18-5347)
Section 502. Qualification For Elective Office.
The qualifications for any person to hold an elective office of the city shall
be as follows:
   A.   Any such person shall be an elector, within the meaning of the
constitution of the state; and
   B.   Any such person shall have been a bona fide resident of the city for at
least one year next preceding the date of the election at which he desires to
be a candidate for such elective office; and
   C.   A council member who has been elected or appointed to four four-year
terms whether consecutive or not, shall not be eligible to be a candidate for
election to the office of council member again. A council member elected or
appointed to serve two years or more of an unexpired term shall have that term
counted as a "four-year term" for purposes of this section. A council member
elected or appointed to serve less than two years of an unexpired term shall
not have that term counted as a "four-year term." This section shall apply
prospectively, meaning that it eliminates previous limitations on holding
office and shall apply to council members elected or appointed to office on and
after the effective date of this section. (Res. 16-5187)
Section 503. Incumbent Elective Officers.
All of the incumbent elective officers of the former city, shall continue in
such offices until the expiration of their respective terms for which they were
elected, and until their successors are appointed or elected, and qualified.
Section 504. Rights Reserved To The Electorate.
The electorate of the city, notwithstanding the adoption of this charter,
reserve unto themselves the following processes:
   A.   The right of referendum as to any legislative act taken by the city
council; and
   B.   The right of initiative, as to any legislative act the city council
could legally effectuate; and
   C.   The right of recall as to any elective officer of the city.
Such reserved rights shall be exercisable only in accordance with, and subject
to the limitations of, the provisions of the constitution of the state of
California and applicable laws.
Section 505. Vacancies.
Vacancies in elective offices shall be deemed to occur under any of the
following circumstances:
   A.   If, during the term of his office, an elective officer of the city
dies; or
   B.   If, during the term of his office, he ceases, for any reason, to be a
registered qualified voter and resident of the city; or
   C.   If, during the term of his office, an elective officer of the city
files a written letter of resignation with the city clerk, his office shall be
deemed vacant as of the date stated in such letter, or if no date is so stated
in such letter, upon the date of its filing;
   D.   If a city council member absents himself, without the consent of the
city council, from all regular city council meetings for a period of sixty (60)
consecutive days from the last regular meeting of the council he attended, his
office shall be deemed vacant; provided that the consent of the city council
shall be given only for good cause, but shall not be unreasonably withheld; or
   E.   If an elective officer of the city is convicted of any crime which
involves moral turpitude, such office shall be deemed vacant as of the date the
judgement of conviction becomes final. (Amended Res. 16-5187)
Section 506. Other Offices.
No elective officer of the city, during his tenure as such, or for a period one
year thereafter, shall hold any other city office or employment.
Article VI
City Council
Section 600. Legislative Body.
The city council shall be the legislative body of the city.
Section 601. Mayor - Mayor Pro Tempore.
By the affirmative votes of not less than three (3) members, the city council
shall choose one of its members as mayor, and one of its members as mayor pro
tempore, upon the following occasions:
   A.   In even numbered years, at the regular council meeting held for the
purpose of canvassing the results of the general municipal election; and
   B.   In odd numbered years, at the first regular council meeting held during
the month of March; or
   C.   At such other times as a majority of the council shall so order.
The council member chosen as mayor shall, in addition to the performance of
this duties as a council member, preside at all city council meetings,
represent the city as the ceremonial head of city government, and perform such
other acts as may be required of him, as directed by the city council,
consistent with this charter, ordinance of the city or other applicable law. In
the case of the absence or disability of the mayor, the mayor pro tempore shall
act in his place and stead. (Amended Res. 16-5187)
Section 602. Vacancies In Elective Offices.
Any vacancy occurring in any elective office of the city, may be filled by the
city council, by resolution, adopted by the affirmative votes of not less than
three (3) members of the city council. If the city council fails, for any
reason, to fill such vacancy within a period of thirty days from and after such
office becomes vacant, it shall within not to exceed six (6) months, call and
hold an election to fill such vacancy. A person appointed or elected to fill a
vacancy in an elective office shall hold such office for the unexpired term of
the former incumbent.
If at any time, three (3) or more vacancies occur in elective offices of the
city, then the following procedure shall take place:
   A.   If such situation qualifies under the provisions of a disaster as
provided by applicable law, and the city has provided for the preservation of
local government as provided thereunder, then such preservation shall be
observed; or
   B.   If such situation does not so qualify, or if such preservation has not
been provided, then the then chairman of the board of supervisors of the county
shall temporarily appoint qualified persons to such three or more vacant
offices for the limited purpose hereinafter set forth. Upon such persons being
so appointed, the city council as thus constituted, shall meet forthwith at a
time and place to be selected by the city clerk for the purpose of calling a
special election to elect qualified persons to the offices temporarily filled
by such appointments. Such temporary appointees shall continue to hold such
elective offices until their successors have been duly elected and qualified.
Section 603. Council Meetings.
   A.   Time And Place. Regular meetings of the city council shall be conducted
at such time and place as are established by ordinance.
   B.   Open To Public. Except as otherwise herein provided, each and every
meeting of the city council, be it a regular or special meeting, or an
adjourned regular or special meeting, shall be open to all members of the
general public.
   C.   Application Of Brown Act. Except as otherwise herein provided, the
provisions of the "Ralph M. Brown act" shall apply to all meetings and acts of
the city council, and its members.
   D.   Executive Sessions Of The City Council may be conducted only:
      1.   To consider the appointment dismissal or imposition of disciplinary
action with respect to any officer, employee or contractor of the city; or
      2.   To meet with the city attorney or other appointed special counsel of
the city, to consider matters relating to pending or potential litigation
involving the city; or
      3.   For such other purposes as are permitted by general law.
For the purpose of this section, an "executive session" shall mean a session of
the city council at which only council members and persons specifically
directed by the city council or authorized by applicable law shall be permitted
to attend.
   E.   Quorum. Three (3) members of the city council shall constitute a quorum
for the purpose of transacting business of the city council.
   F.   Oaths. The mayor, each member of the council and the city clerk shall
have the power to administer oaths or affirmations in proceedings pending
before the city council.
   G.   Subpoenas. The city council shall have the power to compel, by
subpoena, the attendance of witnesses, and the production of any relevant
evidence, at any meeting of the city council, or of any duly appointed board or
commission or at any hearing held before any officer or employee of the city.
Subpoenas shall be issued by the city clerk, upon order of the city council, in
the name of the city, and shall be served in the manner prescribed by
applicable law for the service of subpoenas in judicial actions. Disobedience
to a subpoena, or the refusal to testify to relevant matters before the city
council, except upon valid constitutional grounds, shall constitute a
misdemeanor and shall be punishable as such.
   H.   Rules For Proceedings. The city council may establish rules for the
conduct of its proceedings, including, but not limited to, provision for the
punishment of any person who engages in disorderly conduct at a city council
meeting. (Amended Res. 16-5187)
Section 604. Reimbursement For Expenses.
Council members of the city shall be reimbursed for necessary expenses actually
incurred in the performance of official duties. Such reimbursement shall not be
made, unless approved by the affirmative vote of not less than three (3)
members of the city council. The city council shall establish a procedure for
the reimbursement of other officers and employees of the city for expenditures
incurred by them in the performance of official duties. (Amended Res. 16-5187)
Section 605. Compensation Of Council Members.
Compensation of council members, other than reimbursement for expenses, may be
established in the manner and amount as provided by general law, relating to
council member salaries in general law cities in this state. (Amended Res. 16-
5187)
Section 606. Ordinances.
Except as otherwise provided in this charter or by applicable law, the
enactment of ordinances by the city council, shall be accomplished in
accordance with the provisions of this section.
   A.   Meetings. Ordinances may be adopted at either regular, special or
adjourned regular or special meetings of the city council.
   B.   Adoption Of Ordinances. Ordinances shall be adopted in the manner and
according to the procedure provided by general law.
   C.   Effective Date Of Ordinances. Ordinances shall be effective in the time
and manner provided by general law.
   D.   Vote Required. No ordinance of this city shall become effective unless
the same is adopted by the affirmative votes of at least three (3) members of
the council, except for ordinances for the adoption of which, this charter or
applicable or general law, requires a greater number of affirmative votes.
   E.   Form. Each ordinance shall bear a title which shall briefly describe
the subject matter of the ordinance and shall contain the following enacting
clause: "The City Council of the City of Temple City does ordain". Each
ordinance adopted by the city council shall be signed by the mayor, whose
signature thereon shall be attested to by the city clerk.
   F.   Violation. Penalty. A violation of any duly enacted ordinance of the
city shall constitute a misdemeanor which shall be prosecuted in the manner
prescribed by applicable law. The maximum fine or penalty for the violation of
any ordinance shall be in the sum of $500.00 or a term of imprisonment for a
period not to exceed six (6) months, or by both such fine and imprisonment. The
city council, by ordinance, shall provide for the place of imprisonment for
such violation and may provide that persons convicted of a violation of any
such ordinance may be compelled to perform labor on public works of the city.
   G.   Codification. Any and all ordinances of the city may be compiled,
consolidated, or recompiled and/or reconsolidated, and indexed and arranged in
a comprehensive municipal ordinance code. Such code may be adopted by
ordinance, by reference. Such code, if adopted by reference, need not be
published in the manner required for other ordinances, provided that:
      1.   Not less than three (3) copies thereof shall be on file in the
office of the city clerk, available for examination by members of the public,
prior to the adoption thereof; and
      2.   That the final adoption of such code shall not take place until a
public hearing is held before the city council to allow interested persons to
express their views on such proposed code; and
      3.   That notice of such public hearing is given by publication in an
adjudicated newspaper at least ten (10) days in advance of such hearing.
Detailed regulations pertaining to any subject, such as building regulations,
when arranged in a comprehensive code, including maps, charts or diagrams, may
also be adopted by reference in the manner provided in this section.
Amendments to such code shall be enacted only by ordinance and, if no adoption
by reference is involved, the procedure set forth in this sub-paragraph shall
not apply to such adoption.
Section 607. Contracts.
   A.   Council Action. No contract, for any purpose, shall obligate the city,
in any manner, unless and until such contract has been approved or ratified, in
written form, by the affirmative votes of not less than three (3) members of
the city council; except that:
      1.   Where a contractual expenditure by the city has been included in an
approved city budget, city council approval thereof shall be conclusively
presumed; and
      2.   Where the city manager reasonably determines that an emergency
immediately requires the obtaining of goods or services, he shall be empowered
to contract for the same without prior city council approval, and such contract
shall be a binding obligation of the city. The authority of the city manager
hereunder as to a particular emergency shall terminate at the next meeting of
the city council unless specifically extended.
   B.   Leases. No agreement for the lease of city owned property to any
person, for a non-municipal purpose, shall be valid unless the city council
finds that the property proposed for such lease is not required, and will not
be so required during the term of the agreement, for municipal purposes.
   C.   Supplies And Equipment. Notwithstanding the provisions of this section
relating to contracts, the city council shall, by ordinance, provide for the
acquisition of equipment, materials or supplies, other than for public works
contracts, if the same are included within a budget approved by the city
council.
   D.   Surplus Property. The city council may provide for a system for the
sale, disposal or exchange of real and/or personal property which is surplus to
the needs of the city.
   E.   Public Works Contracts. Except as otherwise herein provided, the city
shall contract for the construction or reconstruction of any public building,
works, streets, drain, sewer, utility, park or playground (hereinafter "public
project") in the time and manner and in accordance with general law.
Section 608. Franchises.
Franchises shall be granted by the city council only in the time and manner,
and for such purposes, as may be prescribed or authorized by the constitution
or by applicable laws of this state.
Section 609. Interference With Administrative Services.
No member of the city council shall interfere with the execution by the city
manager of his powers and duties; nor shall any council member direct the city
manager to appoint or remove any officer or employee of the city. Except for
the purpose of inquiry, no council member shall deal with the administrative
services of city except by and through the city manager; nor shall any council
member give any order or direction to any subordinate officer or employee of
city. This section shall not apply during periods of disaster proclaimed by the
governor or city council, nor during such times as there shall be no council
designated city manager acting in that capacity. (Amended Res. 16-5187)
Section 610. Conflict Of Interest.
The lawful provisions of applicable and/or general law, with regard to conflict
of interests, prohibited interests, and disclosure of assets shall apply to,
and govern the activities of each elective officer of the city.
In addition to the foregoing, elective officers of the city and candidates for
elective office shall not accept from any contractor or developer any campaign
contributions, including but not limited to direct donations, cash donations,
loans, in-kind donations, or other non-cash contributions. Elective officers of
the city shall also not accept from any contractor or developer any "gift" as
defined by the California political reform act or the fair political practices
commission regulations interpreting the act, without full reimbursement. (Res.
16-5187)
Article VII
Appointive Officers
Section 700. Form Of Government.
The system of government established by this charter shall be known as the
"council-manager" form of government.
Section 701. Appointive Offices.
The municipal offices, established by this article, shall be known as
appointive offices of the city. Persons shall be appointed to and removed from,
such offices by the city council, in accordance with the provisions hereof.
Section 702. City Manager. Appointment. Qualification. Compensation.
The appointive office of city manager for the city is hereby created. The
qualification, appointment, salary, duties, tenure and discharge of the city
manager shall be prescribed by ordinance of the city council.
Section 703. City Attorney. Appointment. Qualification. Compensation.
The appointive office of city attorney of city is hereby created. The city
attorney shall be directly responsible to the city council for the performance
of his duties.
   A.   Appointment. A qualified person shall be appointed to the office of
city attorney, by resolution of the city council, adopted by the affirmative
votes of not less than three (3) members thereof.
   B.   Compensation. The city council shall, from time to time, by resolution,
set the compensation for the office of city attorney.
   C.   Qualification. No person shall be eligible for appointment to the
office of city attorney, unless at the time of such appointment he is duly
licensed as an attorney at law by the state of California, and has engaged in
the practice of law for a period of not less than five (5) years immediately
preceding the date of such appointment.
Section 704. City Attorney. Duties.
The duties of the office of city attorney shall be a follows:
   A.   He shall act as the legal advisor for the city, and to its officers and
employees, in all matters relating to city affairs;
   B.   He shall be required to appear and defend the city in all matters in
civil litigation involving the city and its officers and employees. He shall
prosecute all violations of city ordinances, but may, with approval of the city
council, delegate such authority to the district attorney;
   C.   He shall prepare all ordinances, resolutions, contracts, opinions and
other legal documents as required by the city council, relating to the affairs
of the city; and
   D.   He shall perform such other duties as may be required of him by the
city council.
Section 705. City Attorney. Deputies. Special Counsel.
The city attorney shall have the authority to appoint deputy city attorneys, to
act as such, under the control and direction of the city attorney. Compensation
for such deputies, if any, shall be set by the council. The city attorney may,
with the approval of the city council, engage the services of special counsel
to assist him in the performance of his said duties.
Section 706. City Attorney. Removal.
The city attorney shall serve at the pleasure of the city council and may be
removed from such office, on 90 days notice, by the affirmative votes of not
less than three (3) members of the city council.
Section 707. City Clerk. Appointment. Qualification.
The appointive office of city clerk of city is hereby created. Such office may
be combined with that of any other appointive office. The city clerk shall be
appointed and removed by, and be responsible to, the city manager.
Section 708. City Treasurer.
The appointive office of city treasurer is hereby established. The duties of
the city treasurer shall be those imposed by applicable and/or general law,
except as those duties may be modified by ordinance of the city. The salary,
tenure, appointment and removal of the city treasurer shall be as prescribed by
the city council.
Section 709. Bonds.
The appointive officers shall post such fidelity bonds as may be required by
the city council. Such bonds shall be a proper charge upon the city.
Article VIII
Officers And Employees
Section 800. Merit System. Establishment.
The city council, by ordinance, may establish a merit system for city
employees. Such system may include provisions for the method of the selection
of employees, the classification, advancement, suspension, discharge,
termination of such employees, and the consolidation and elimination of
positions. The said merit system shall apply as to each office or position of
employment with the city, except:
   A.   Elective and appointive officers; and
   B.   Part-time or temporary officers and employees; and
   C.   Members of boards and commissions.
Such system may be amended, by ordinance of the city council, from time to
time, as may be required in the discretion of the city council in the public
interest.
Section 801. Retirement.
Plenary authority and power is hereby vested in the city, its city council and
its several officers and employees to do and perform any act, or exercise any
authority granted, permitted or required under the provisions of the public
employees' retirement act, as it now exists or hereafter may be amended, so as
to enable the city to continue as a contracting city under said retirement
system. The city may terminate any such contract with the board of
administration of the public employees' retirement system only under authority
granted the enabling act relating to said system.
Section 802. Compensation.
The city council, by resolution, shall from time to time establish the salaries
and/or other forms of compensation for each officer or employee of the city.
Article IX
Fiscal Administration
Section 900. Fiscal Year.
The fiscal year of the city shall begin on the first day of July of each
calendar year and shall end on the thirtieth day of June of the following year.
Section 901. Budget. Submission To City Council.
At least thirty-five (35) days prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, the
city manager shall prepare and submit to the city council, a proposed annual
budget, covering expected income and all proposed expenditures of city for the
forthcoming fiscal year. In preparing the budget the city manager shall utilize
the most accurate available income estimates and the most feasible combination
of expenditure classification by fund, organization unit, program, purpose or
activity, and object.
Not less than ten (10) copies of the proposed budget, and the city manager's
budget message, shall be on file in the office of the city clerk, available for
examination by members of the general public. Upon submission of the budget,
the city council shall select a convenient date for the conduct of a public
hearing upon the adoption of such budget. Notice shall be given of such public
in such manner as the city council deems appropriate to give complete and
adequate notice thereof, to residents of the city. At the time of such public
hearing, the city council shall consider evidence presented by any interested
person concerning any or all of the items as contained in the proposed budget.
Upon conclusion of the said public hearing, the city council shall make such
alterations, deletions or additions to the budget as proposed, is in the public
interest, and thereafter, it shall approve the budget as revised. Such approval
shall take place prior to the commencement of the fiscal year to which such
budget relates. Upon its adoption, by the affirmative votes of at least three
(3) members of the city council, the budget shall be in effect for the ensuing
fiscal year. The budget as approved shall be filed with the city clerk, and
shall be reproduced and copies made available for the use of the public and of
departments, officers and agencies of the city.
At any meeting after the adoption of the budget, the city council may amend or
supplement the budget, by motion, adopted by the affirmative votes of at least
three (3) members of the city council.
Section 902. Budget. Appropriations.
From and after the effective date of the budget, the several amounts stated
therein as proposed expenditures, shall be deemed appropriated to the several
departments, offices and agencies for the respective objects and purposes
therein stated. All appropriations shall lapse at the end of the fiscal year to
the extent that they shall not have been expended or lawfully encumbered.
Section 903. Tax Levies.
The city council shall have the authority to levy property taxes in the same
time, manner and amount as is now, or hereafter, authorized by general law.
Section 904. Imposition Of Other Taxes.
The city council may, by ordinance, impose any other tax, in addition to those
specifically referred to in this charter, if such tax can lawfully be imposed
by a charter or general law city by virtue of the constitution of the state, or
by virtue of any general law.
Section 905. Tax Procedure.
The procedure for the assessment, levy and collection of all municipal taxes
and special assessment shall be prescribed by ordinance of the city council.
Section 906. Debt.
The city may incur debts, issue bonds, enter into long term leases or
contracts, or otherwise financially obligate itself over one or more years, in
the manner as is authorized by general law.
Section 907. Claims Against The City.
Claims for money or damages against the city or any officer or employee
thereof, and civil actions to enforce the same, shall be presented, filed and
acted upon in the time and manner as is prescribed by the Government Code of
the state of California, as the same now exists, or may hereafter be amended.
Section 908. Payment Of Claims And Demands.
The city council, by ordinance, shall provide for the method and manner for the
approval and payment of claims and demands against the city.
Article X
Board Of Education
Section 1000. Effect Of Charter On School Districts.
The adoption of this charter shall not have the effect of creating any new
school district nor shall the adoption of this charter have any effect upon the
existence, the boundaries or manner of operation of any school district located
within the boundaries of the city, wholly or partially, as of the effective
date of this charter. Each such present school district shall continue in
existence subject, in all respects, to the provisions of the constitution and
the laws of the state of California, as the same now exist or hereafter may be
amended.
Section 1001. Application Of State Law.
The manner, the time, tenure and terms of office, with reference to the members
of boards of education of such school districts, their qualifications,
compensation and removal and the number which shall constitute any one of such
boards, shall continue to be prescribed by the constitution and the laws of the
state of California, as the same now exist or may hereafter be amended.
Article XI
City Boards And Commissions
Section 1100. Creation Of Commissions.
The city council, by ordinance, may create such permanent or temporary boards
or commissions as it finds, in its judgment, are required to assist in the
performance of any municipal function. Any person appointed to any permanent or
temporary board or commission established by the city council pursuant to this
section shall be bound by the contribution and gift limitations applicable to
council members as set forth in article VI. (Res. 16-5187)
Section 1101. Enabling Ordinances.
An ordinance establishing a board or commission shall specify the following:
   A.   The number of members comprising such commission or board; and
   B.   Their term of office; and
   C.   The powers and duties assigned to the board or commission; and
   D.   The conditions under vacancies in membership shall occur automatically;
and
   E.   The qualifications for appointment to such board or commission; and
   F.   Such other matters as may be necessary, in the judgement of the
council, to enable the commission to perform its assigned functions.
Section 1102. Appropriation Of Funds.
The city council in its annual budget shall include an appropriation of funds
for each board or commission, in such amounts as it deems adequate for the
performance of the functions assigned to such bodies.
Section 1103. Appointment And Removal Of Members.
Notwithstanding the provisions of any ordinance adopted pursuant to section
1101 of this charter, any city contractor, developer, any employee of a city
contractor or developer, or any current city employee (whether full-time or
part-time) is not eligible for membership on any commission or board
established by the city council. Members of all commissions and boards of the
city shall be appointed by the city council and shall serve at the pleasure of
said city council. Such appointments shall be made, by resolution, adopted by
the affirmative votes of not less than three (3) members of the city council.
Any members of a board or commission may be removed, with or without cause, at
any time by the affirmative vote of three (3) members of the city council.
Any vacancy on any board or commission, from whatever cause arising, shall be
filled by resolution, carried by not less than three (3) affirmative votes of
the city council. Upon a vacancy occurring leaving an unexpired portion of a
term, any appointment to fill such vacancy shall be for the unexpired portion
of such term. (Res. 16-5187)
Section 1104. Meetings. Conduct Of.
The meetings and acts of all commissions and boards, and members thereof, of
the city, shall be conducted and taken in accordance with the provisions of the
"Ralph M. Brown act". Each board or commission may adopt, by resolution, rules
for the conduct of its meetings, a copy of which shall be filed with the city
clerk.
Section 1105. Compensation. Expenses.
The city council, by resolution, may provide for reimbursement for expenses and
insurance coverage of board or commission members.
Section 1106. Secretary. Records.
The city manager shall provide the secretarial services for each board or
commission. The city manager shall insure the adequate preparation of the
minutes of board or commission meetings and shall maintain permanent files
containing copies of the minutes as approved by each such board or commission,
and other records relating thereto.
Section 1107. Existing Commissions.
Members of existing boards and commissions holding office as such, as of the
effective date of this charter, shall continue to hold such office thereafter
until their respective terms shall expire and their successors shall be
appointed and qualified or until they have been removed as set forth herein.
Article XII
Violations. Validity.
Section 1200. Violations.
The violation of any provision of this charter shall be deemed a misdemeanor
and be punishable upon conviction by a fine of not exceeding $500.00 or by
imprisonment for a term of not exceeding six (6) months, or by both such fine
and imprisonment.
Section 1201. Validity.
If any provisions of this charter, or the application thereof to any person or
circumstance, is held judicially invalid, the remainder of the charter, and the
application of such provision to other persons or circumstances, shall not be
affected thereby.
TITLE 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 1
ADOPTION OF CODE
SECTION:
1-1-0: Short Title, Reference To Code
1-1-1: Codification Authority
1-1-2: Effective Date
1-1-3: Validity Of Code Severability
1-1-4: Distribution Of Code
1-1-5: Notation Of Amendments
1-1-6: Amendments
1-1-7: Effect Of Code On Past Actions And Obligations
1-1-8: Public Places For Posting Notices
1-1-9: Posting
1-1-0: SHORT TITLE, REFERENCE TO CODE:
This code shall be known as the TEMPLE CITY MUNICIPAL CODE, and it shall be
sufficient to refer to said code as the "Temple City municipal code" in any
prosecution for the violation of any provisions thereof. It shall also be
sufficient to designate any ordinance adding to, amending or repealing said
code, or portions thereof, as an addition or amendment to, or a repeal of, the
"Temple City municipal code", or a portion thereof. (1960 Code)
1-1-1: CODIFICATION AUTHORITY:
This record consists of all of the regulatory, penal and certain of the
administrative ordinances of the city of Temple City, codified pursuant to
applicable provisions of the charter of the city of Temple City and the general
laws of the state of California. (1960 Code)
1-1-2: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This code takes effect upon the effective date of the ordinance whereby this
code is adopted. (1960 Code)
1-1-3: VALIDITY OF CODE SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this code is
for any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by the final decision of
any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the
validity of the remaining portions of this code. The city council hereby
declares that it would have adopted this code and each section, subsection,
sentence, clause, phrase, or portion thereof, irrespective of the fact that any
one or more sections, subsections, phrases, or portions hereof be declared
invalid or unconstitutional. (1960 Code)
1-1-4: DISTRIBUTION OF CODE:
Not less than three (3) current copies of this code shall be filed for use and
examination by the public in the office of the city clerk. Additional copies
shall be prepared in loose leaf form and mounted to withstand heavy usage in
such binders as the city clerk may prescribe. Copies thereof shall be
distributed as determined by the city manager. (1960 Code)
1-1-5: NOTATION OF AMENDMENTS:
Upon the adoption of any amendment or addition to said code, or upon the repeal
of any of its provisions, the city clerk shall make an appropriate notation in
the said code of the taking of such action, noting thereon the number of the
ordinances pursuant to which such action is taken. Duly certified copies of
every ordinance making changes in such code shall be filed in the office of the
city clerk in books for such purpose, duly indexed for ready reference. (1960
Code)
1-1-6: AMENDMENTS:
The city clerk shall prepare copies of such changes in this code for insertion
in the loose leaf copies thereof. Every section of this code so changed shall
have printed thereon a notation of the ordinance number pursuant to which such
change is adopted. (1960 Code)
1-1-7: EFFECT OF CODE ON PAST ACTIONS AND OBLIGATIONS:
Neither the adoption of this code nor the repeal of any ordinance or prior code
(hereinafter "ordinances") of this city:
   A.   Shall, in any manner affect the prosecution for violations of codes or
ordinances, committed prior to the effective date hereof; nor
   B.   Shall the same be construed as a waiver of the requirement for any
license or permit under such ordinances; nor
   C.   Shall the same be construed as affecting any of the provisions of such
ordinances relating to the collection of any such license taxes or the penal
provisions applicable to any violation thereof; nor
   D.   Shall the same be construed to affect the validity of any bond or cash
deposit in lieu thereof, required to be posted, filed or deposited pursuant to
any ordinance, and all rights and obligations thereunder appertaining shall
continue in full force and effect.
The provisions of this code, insofar as they are substantially the same as
preexisting ordinances of the city relating to the same subject matter, shall
be construed as restatements and continuations of existing laws, and not as new
enactments. (1960 Code)
1-1-8: PUBLIC PLACES FOR POSTING NOTICES:
During such times as the city shall be without all adjudicated newspapers, the
following are officially designated as public places for the posting of all
ordinances, resolutions or notices adopted or issued by the city:
   Civic Center
   5938 North Kauffman Avenue
   Temple City, California
   County Law Library
   5939 Golden West Avenue
   Temple City, California
   United States Post Office
   5940 North Oak Avenue
   Temple City, California
(1960 Code; amd. Ord. 89-658)
1-1-9: POSTING:
During such times as the city shall be without all adjudicated newspapers, all
ordinances and all resolutions required by law to be published or posted shall
be posted in at least three (3) of the public places as set forth in the
previous section of this code. (1960 Code)
CHAPTER 2
ENFORCEMENT OF CODE
SECTION:
1-2-0: Violations, Penalties
1-2-0-1: Violations; Infractions
1-2-0-2: Penalty Assessments; Infractions
1-2-0-3: Reinspection Fee
1-2-1: Labor Upon Public Works
1-2-2: Enforcement Of Code; Citation Procedures
1-2-3: Failure To Appear
1-2-4: Failure To Appear; Issuance Of Warrant
1-2-5: Enforcement
1-2-6: Payment Of Claims
1-2-0: VIOLATIONS, PENALTIES:
   A.   No person, firm, corporation, or other responsible entity shall violate
any provision, restriction, or requirement of this code or any code adopted by
reference herein, any ordinance of the city, any rule or regulation promulgated
pursuant thereto, or any condition of any permit, license, or other entitlement
issued pursuant to this code. Each such entity shall be guilty of a separate
offense for each and every day during any portion of which the violation or
failure to comply is committed, continued, permitted, suffered, or maintained,
and shall be punished accordingly.
   B.   Any person, firm, corporation, or other responsible entity who violates
any provision, restriction, or requirement of this code or any code adopted by
reference herein, any ordinance of the city, any rule or regulation promulgated
pursuant thereto, or any condition of any permit, license, or other entitlement
issued pursuant to this code shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a
fine of not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), or by imprisonment in
the county jail for a period not exceeding six (6) months, or by both such fine
and imprisonment, unless:
      1.   Such requirement is classified as an infraction by the California
Vehicle Code, this code, or any ordinance of the city;
      2.   The prosecuting attorney files a complaint charging the offense as
an infraction;
      3.   The city manager or prosecuting attorney authorizes the issuance of
a citation charging an offense as an infraction;
      4.   After filing of a misdemeanor complaint, the court, solely upon
motion of the people, reduces the charge to an infraction, and the defendant
does not object to having the case proceed as an infraction; or
      5.   An enforcement officer issues an administrative citation pursuant to
chapter 4 of this title.
   C.   In addition to the penalties provided hereinabove, a violation of any
provision, restriction, or requirement of this code or any code adopted by
reference herein, any ordinance of the city, any rule or regulation promulgated
pursuant thereto, or any condition of any permit, license, or other entitlement
issued pursuant to this code shall be deemed a public nuisance and may be
abated in the manner provided by law as such. Every day such violation
continues shall be regarded as a new and separate offense. (Ord. 12-957)
1-2-0-1: VIOLATIONS; INFRACTIONS:
Pursuant to the provisions of section 36900 of the California Government Code,
the city manager or other designated city official may enforce the first and
second violations by any person of any provisions of the Temple City municipal
code as "infractions", while any subsequent violations shall be deemed and
enforced as "misdemeanors". (1960 Code; amd. Ord. 86-581; Ord. 93-750; Ord. 95-
787; Ord. 98-824; Ord. 98-825)
1-2-0-2: PENALTY ASSESSMENTS; INFRACTIONS:
A violation of any provisions of this code expressly enforced as an infraction
shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed that allowable by California state
law, as set forth by city council resolution.
Failure to pay any penalty assessment imposed pursuant to the provisions of
this code shall constitute a separate misdemeanor violation. (1960 Code; amd.
Ord. 93-750; Ord. 98-825)
1-2-0-3: REINSPECTION FEE:
There is hereby imposed a reinspection fee on each person in violation of any
provision of section
1-2-0-1 of this chapter when the particular violation for which an inspection
or reinspection is scheduled is not fully abated or corrected as directed by,
and within the time and manner specified in, the notice of violation. The fee
shall not apply to the first scheduled inspection after service of the notice
of violation, whether or not the correction is made. This fee is intended to
compensate for administrative costs for unnecessary inspections, and not for
enforcement of the law. Any fees imposed shall be separate and apart from any
fines or penalties imposed for violations of the law.
The fee shall not exceed the cost necessary of providing the reinspection
service as set forth by city council resolution. (1960 Code; amd. Ord. 93-750)
1-2-1: LABOR UPON PUBLIC WORKS:
Persons confined under a final judgment of imprisonment for a violation of any
of the provisions hereof may be required to perform labor on the streets or
other public property or works of the city.
The phrase, "streets or other public property or works within the city", as
used in this section shall include, among other things, clerical and menial
labor in any camp, or other place, maintained for such persons.
The city manager may prescribe and enforce rules and regulations under which
such labor is to be performed; and may provide clothing of such distinctive
character for such persons as he, in his discretion, may deem proper. (1960
Code)
1-2-2: ENFORCEMENT OF CODE; CITATION PROCEDURES:
   A.   Any officer arresting any person for a violation of any provision of
this code, who does not immediately take such code of the court. The notice
shall contain:
      1.   The name and address of the person arrested;
      2.   The offense charged, the time and place of such alleged violation;
and
      3.   Where and when such arrested person shall appear in court.
The time specified in the notice to appear must be at least five (5) days after
such arrest. The place specified in the notice to appear, and said notice,
shall be in conformity with all applicable provisions of the Penal Code of the
state of California.
   B.   The arresting officer shall deliver one copy of the notice to appear to
the alleged violator; the alleged violator, in order to secure his immediate
release, must give his written promise to so appear in court at the time and
place indicated thereon, by signing the duplicate notice which shall be
retained by the officer. Thereafter, the arresting officer shall forthwith
release from custody the person so arrested. The duplicate copy of the notice
to appear shall be filed in the manner prescribed in said Penal Code of the
state of California. (1960 Code)
1-2-3: FAILURE TO APPEAR:
Any person who wilfully violates his written promise to appear in court by
failing to so appear at the time and place stated, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor, regardless of the disposition of the charge upon which he was
originally arrested. (1960 Code)
1-2-4: FAILURE TO APPEAR; ISSUANCE OF WARRANT:
When a person signs a written promise to appear at the time and place specified
therein, and has not posted bail as provided in said Penal Code of the state of
California, the magistrate shall issue and have delivered for execution a
warrant for his arrest within twenty (20) days after such person has failed to
appear as promised, or if such person promises to appear before an officer do
so on or before the date with which he promised to appear, then within twenty
(20) days after the delivery of such written promise to appear by the officer
to a magistrate having jurisdiction for execution, a warrant for his arrest.
When such person violates his promise to appear before an officer authorized to
receive bail other than a magistrate, the officer shall immediately deliver to
the magistrate having jurisdiction over the offense charged the written promise
to appear and the complaint, if any, filed by the arresting officer. (1960
Code)
1-2-5: ENFORCEMENT:
Unless otherwise directed herein, the duty of enforcing the provisions of the
code, shall be the responsibility of the city manager. (1960 Code)
1-2-6: PAYMENT OF CLAIMS:
Pursuant to the authority provided in section 995 of the Government Code of the
state of California, the following claims procedures are hereby established for
those claims hereinafter made or claimed against the city for money or damages
not now governed by existing state law.
   A.   Claims are used in this section (and particularly as used in
subsections B and C of this section) shall include:
      1.   All claims made by or on behalf of any public agency, governmental
agency or the state of California or any political subdivision thereof; and
      2.   Any claim, set off or credit for salary or employee benefits
submitted by any past or present employee of the city; and
      3.   Any other claim not specifically covered by the provisions of the
Government Code of the state.
   B.   Notwithstanding the exemptions set forth in section 905 of the
Government Code, all claims against the city for damages, money, reimbursement
or other financial matters when a procedure for processing such claims is not
otherwise provided by state or local law (specifically including claims by
other governmental agencies or the state or a past or present employee) shall
be presented within the time limitations and in the manner and mode prescribed
by sections 910 through 915.2 of the Government Code of the state; and if not
so presented shall be null and void.
   C.   All such claims shall also be subject to the provisions of section
945.4 of the Government Code of the state relating to the prohibition of
litigation in the absence of proper presentation of claims to (and action
thereon by) the city council. Ontario v. Sup. Ct. (1993) 16 CalRptr. 2d 32.
(Ord. 93-748)
CHAPTER 3
RULES OF CONSTRUCTION
SECTION:
1-3-0: Construction, Provisions Governing
1-3-1: Effect Of Headings
1-3-2: Reference To Acts Or Omissions Within City
1-3-3: Prohibited Acts, Including Causing, Permitting Or Suffering
1-3-4: Acts By Deputy
1-3-5: Writing
1-3-6: Reference Applies To Amendments
1-3-7: Notices
1-3-8: Proof Of Notice
1-3-9: Tense
1-3-10: Gender
1-3-11: Number
1-3-12: Shall And May
1-3-13: Oath
1-3-14: Definitions
1-3-15: Interpretation
1-3-0: CONSTRUCTION, PROVISIONS GOVERNING:
Unless the provisions or the context otherwise require, these general
provisions, rules of construction and definitions shall govern proceedings
under it are to be construed with a view to effect its objects and to promote
justice. (1960 Code)
1-3-1: EFFECT OF HEADINGS:
Article and section headings contained herein shall not be deemed to govern,
limit, modify or in any manner effect the scope, meaning or intent of the
provisions of any article or section hereof. (1960 Code)
1-3-2: REFERENCE TO ACTS OR OMISSIONS WITHIN CITY:
Except as otherwise expressly provided, this code shall refer only to the
omission or commission of acts within the territorial limits of the city and to
that territory outside of the city over which the city has jurisdiction or
control by virtue of the constitution, or any law, or by reason of ownership or
control of property. (1960 Code)
1-3-3: PROHIBITED ACTS, INCLUDING CAUSING, PERMITTING OR SUFFERING:
Whenever in this code any act or omission is made unlawful, it shall include
causing, permitting, aiding, abetting, suffering or concealing such act or
omission. (1960 Code)
1-3-4: ACTS BY DEPUTY:
Whenever a power is granted to or duty is imposed upon a public officer or
employee the power may be exercised or the duty may be performed by a deputy of
such officer or employee or by a person otherwise duly authorized, pursuant to
law or ordinance or by an officer of the county of Los Angeles, or by a deputy
or employee of such officer when by contract with the city of Temple City such
officer is obligated and has agreed to perform certain duties on behalf of the
city, unless this code expressly provides otherwise. (1960 Code)
1-3-5: WRITING:
Writing includes any form of recorded message capable of comprehension by
ordinary visual means. Whenever any notice, report, statement or record is
required or authorized by this code, it shall be made in writing in the English
language unless it is expressly provided otherwise. (1960 Code)
1-3-6: REFERENCE APPLIES TO AMENDMENTS:
Whenever a reference is made to any portion of this code, or to any ordinances
of this city, the reference applies to all amendments and additions now or
hereafter made. (1960 Code)
1-3-7: NOTICES:
Whenever a written notice is required to be given pursuant to this code unless
a contrary provision is specifically made, such notice shall be given:
   A.   By personal delivery thereof to the person to be notified, or
   B.   By deposit in the United States postal service, in a sealed envelope,
or postal card, postage prepaid, addressed to the person to be notified, at his
last known business or residence address as the same appears in the public
records of the city or other records pertaining to the matter to which such
notice relates.
Service of such notice shall be deemed to have been completed at the time of
deposit thereof in the said postal service, or at the time of personal service.
(1960 Code)
1-3-8: PROOF OF NOTICE:
Proof of giving any notice may be made by the certificate of an officer or
employee of the city, or by affidavit of any person over the age of eighteen
(18) years, which shows service in conformity with this code, or other
provisions of law applicable to the subject matter concerned. (1960 Code)
1-3-9: TENSE:
The present tense includes the past and future tenses, and the future, the
present. (1960 Code)
1-3-10: GENDER:
The masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter. (1960 Code)
1-3-11: NUMBER:
The singular number includes the plural, and the plural, the singular. (1960
Code)
1-3-12: SHALL AND MAY:
"Shall" is mandatory and "may" is permissive. (1960 Code)
1-3-13: OATH:
"Oath" includes affirmation. (1960 Code)
1-3-14: DEFINITIONS:
   CITY: The city of Temple City.
   COUNCIL: The city council of the city of Temple City.
   COUNTY: The county of Los Angeles.
   GOODS: Wares or merchandise.
   OFFICE: The use of the title of any officer, employee, office or ordinance
shall mean such officer, employee, office or official of the city of Temple
City.
   OPERATE: Carry on, keep, conduct or maintain.
   OWNER: Applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant, tenant in common, joint tenant, of the whole or a part of such
building or land.
   PERSON: As used in this code or in any ordinance or code adopted hereby,
includes any person, firm, association, organization, partnership, business
trust, company or corporation and any municipal, political or governmental
corporation, district, body or agency, other than the city of Temple City.
   SALE: Any sale, exchange, barter or offer for sale.
   STATE: The state of California.
   STREET: Includes all streets, highways, avenues, lanes, alleys, courts,
places, squares, sidewalks, parkways, curbs or other public ways in this city
which have been or may hereafter be dedicated and open to public use, or such
other public property as designated in any law of this state.
   TENANT OR OCCUPANT: Applied to a building or land shall include any person
who occupies the whole or part of such building or land, whether alone or with
others. (1960 Code)
1-3-15: INTERPRETATION:
Whenever in this code or in any ordinance, statute, or other matter which is
adopted by reference unless the context requires otherwise, the following
references shall be given the following meanings:
   BOARD OF SUPERVISORS: The city council of the city of Temple City.
   COUNTY: The city of Temple City.
   COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES: The city of Temple City.
   COUNTY OFFICER: The appropriate or designated officer of the city of Temple
City.
   UNINCORPORATED TERRITORY: The incorporated territory of the city of Temple
City. (1960 Code)
CHAPTER 4
ADMINISTRATIVE CITATIONS
SECTION:
1-4-0: Findings
1-4-1: Applicability And Scope
1-4-2: Definitions
1-4-3: Scope
1-4-4: Issuance Of Administrative Citation; Contents Thereof
1-4-5: Service Of Citation
1-4-6: Administrative Fines; Fees; Other Charges
1-4-7: Right To Administrative Hearing; Waiver Of Advance Deposit Of Fine
1-4-8: Administrative Hearing Procedures
1-4-9: Hearing Officer Decision; Right Of Appeal Therefrom
1-4-10: Penalties
1-4-11: Severability
1-4-0: FINDINGS:
The city council of the city of Temple City finds and declares as follows:
   A.   Enforcement of this code and adopted ordinances throughout the city is
an important public service. A program for enforcement of local codes is vital
to protect public health, safety, and welfare. The establishment of a
comprehensive and effective code enforcement program that is able to utilize
both administrative and judicial remedies against violations of the city's laws
is best equipped to protect public health, safety, and welfare.
   B.   Government Code section 53069.4 authorizes local jurisdictions to enact
legislation making a violation of any local ordinance subject to an
administrative fine or penalty. The state legislature has also enacted other
provisions of California law that allow local governments to impose
administrative fines and/or penalties for violations of specified provisions of
state law. The city council intends, pursuant to this statute, to establish an
administrative citation program that:
      1.   Imposes a nonjudicial administrative fine and/or penalty for
offenses of this code (including, but not limited to, any other code adopted
therein) and other state laws as authorized by statute;
      2.   Encourages prompt abatement or correction of prohibited conditions,
uses or activities in the city; and
      3.   Creates deterrence against future violations of the city's laws.
   C.   The administrative citation remedy is not intended to replace any other
remedy allowed by this code or state law. It is intended to provide an
alternative and/or additional means by which the city's laws may be enforced.
(Ord. 12-957)
1-4-1: APPLICABILITY AND SCOPE:
   A.   Use of this chapter shall be at the sole discretion of the city and is
one remedy that the city has to address violations of this code or other
applicable provisions of state law. By adopting this chapter, the city does not
intend to limit its discretion or ability to utilize any administrative, civil,
criminal, or other remedy available at law or equity, or any combination
thereof, to address violations of the city's laws.
   B.   This chapter makes a violation of any provision, restriction, or
requirement of this code or any code adopted by reference herein, any ordinance
of the city, any rule or regulation promulgated pursuant thereto, or any
condition of any permit, license, or other entitlement issued pursuant to this
code subject to an administrative fine.
   C.   This chapter establishes the administrative procedures for the
imposition, enforcement, collection, and administrative review of
administrative fines and/or penalties pursuant to Government Code section
53069.4.
   D.   An administrative fine in an amount adopted by resolution of the city
council shall be imposed by means of an administrative citation issued by an
enforcement officer, and shall be paid directly to the city of Temple City.
Payment of a fine shall not excuse a failure to correct a violation, nor shall
it bar concurrent or further enforcement actions by the city.
   E.   The city manager, or a designee thereof, may dismiss a citation at any
time if a determination is made that it was issued in error, in which event any
deposit of a fine shall be refunded. Notice of such action shall be given to
the citee in writing.
   F.   The city manager, or a designee thereof, is authorized to promulgate
procedural rules and regulations governing the provisions in this chapter.
(Ord. 12-957)
1-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words are defined as follows:
   ADMINISTRATIVE FINE AND/OR ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTY: The monetary sanction
established by resolution of the city council that is imposed upon a
responsible person by means of a citation.
   CITATION: An administrative citation that is issued to a responsible person
pursuant to this chapter.
   CITEE: A responsible person to whom a citation is issued.
   CITY: The city of Temple City, California.
   CITY MANAGER: The chief administrative official of the city as appointed by
the city council.
   CODE: Shall include: a) the entire Temple City municipal code and any other
code, rule, or regulation incorporated therein by adoption or reference, b) any
uncodified ordinance adopted by the city council of Temple City, c) any rule or
regulation promulgated pursuant to the provisions of this code, d) any
condition of any permit, license, or other entitlement issued pursuant to this
code, and e) other state laws as authorized by statute.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER AND OFFICER: Any city employee with obligations to
enforce this code. Enforcement officers shall include the following personnel:
city manager; public services director; public safety manager; code enforcement
officer; animal control officer; building inspector and resident safety
volunteer member, and their designees. The city manager may designate
additional persons to act as officers for purposes of implementing the
provisions of this chapter.
   HEARING OFFICER: Shall include a private entity, organization, association
or person, or a public official, or duly constituted reviewing authority or
commission that the city manager designates or appoints to consider all timely
requests for an administrative hearing upon issuance of a citation.
   OWNER: Shall mean and include any person having legal title to, or who
leases, rents, occupies or has charge, control or possession of, or
responsibility for, any real property in the city, including all persons shown
as owners on the last equalized assessment roll of the Los Angeles County
assessor's office. Owners include persons with powers of attorney, executors of
estates, trustees, or who are court appointed administrators, conservators,
guardians or receivers. An owner of personal property shall be any person who
has legal title, charge, control, responsibility for, or possession of such
property.
   PERSON: Shall mean and includes any individual, partnership of any kind, a
corporation of any kind, limited liability company, association, joint venture
or other organization or entity, however formed, as well as fiduciaries,
trustees, heirs, executors, administrators, or assigns, or any combination of
such persons. "Person" also includes any public entity or agency that acts as
an owner in the city.
   PROPERTY OR PREMISES: Any real property, or improvements thereon, or
portions thereof, as the case may be. "Property" includes any parkway or
unimproved public easement abutting such real property. "Property" shall also
include all forms of personal property or animals, where applicable.
   RESPONSIBLE PERSON: Any person, whether as an owner or an agent, manager, or
representative of an owner, or otherwise, that allows, causes, creates,
maintains, suffers, or permits a violation of the code to exist or continue, by
any act or the omission of any act or duty.
   VIOLATION: An act or omission of any act, or use or condition that
constitutes an offense of the code, as well as a breach or violation of any
condition of a permit, approval or license issued pursuant to the code. A
"transient" violation is one that is brief or spontaneous in its commission, or
that is not typically confined to a fixed location. A "nontransient" violation
is continuing in nature and generally present at one location. (Ord. 12-957)
1-4-3: SCOPE:
This chapter provides for imposition of an administrative fine pursuant to a
citation for any violation of the code, as well as for a breach or violation of
any condition of a permit, approval or license issued pursuant to the code.
This remedy may be utilized in place of, or in addition to, any other remedy
allowed by the code or state law. The city manager, or designees thereof, shall
have sole discretion to utilize any remedy or remedies as authorized by law.
(Ord. 12-957)
1-4-4: ISSUANCE OF ADMINISTRATIVE CITATION; CONTENTS THEREOF:
   A.   Whenever an officer determines that a violation of the code has
occurred, the officer may issue a citation on a city approved form imposing an
administrative fine or fines to the responsible person(s) in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   When the violation pertains to building, plumbing, electrical or other
similar structural or zoning issues that creates an immediate danger to health
or safety, a citation may be issued forthwith. In the absence of an immediate
danger, a citation for a violation pertaining to building, plumbing,
electrical, or other similar structural or zoning issues shall not be issued
pursuant to this chapter unless the responsible person has first been provided
with a reasonable period, as determined by the officer, in which to complete
the abatement or compliance actions.
   C.   An officer may issue a citation for a violation not committed in the
officer's presence if the officer has determined, through investigation, that
the citee did commit, or is otherwise responsible for, the violation.
   D.   Each day, or any portion thereof, that a prohibited condition, use or
activity under the code is committed, continued or permitted, shall constitute
a separate violation for which an administrative fine may be imposed. A single
citation may charge multiple violations of the code, however, each violation is
subject to a separate and distinct administrative fine.
   E.   Each citation shall contain the following information:
      1.   Name and mailing address of the responsible person;
      2.   The address or description of the location of the violation;
      3.   The date and approximate time of the commission of the violation(s),
or detection thereof by an officer;
      4.   The relevant provision(s) or section(s) of the code alleged to have
been violated;
      5.   A description of the violation(s);
      6.   Amount of the fine for each violation, the procedure and place to
pay the fine(s) and/or reinspection fees, and any late penalty and/or interest
charge(s), if not timely paid;
      7.   When appropriate, the action(s) required to correct the violation
(s), and, if applicable, any deadlines or time limitations for commencing and
completing such action(s);
      8.   A description of the administrative citation review process and the
manner by which a hearing on a citation may be obtained (including the form to
be used, where it may be procured from, and the period in which a request must
be made in order to be timely);
      9.   The name and signature of the officer, and the signature of the
citee, if he or she is physically present and will sign the citation at the
time of its issuance. The refusal of a citee to sign a citation shall not
affect its validity or any related subsequent proceeding, nor shall signing a
citation constitute an admission that a person has committed a violation of the
code;
      10.   A statement that the failure to timely tender the fine(s) and other
fees, costs, and/or charges imposed pursuant to this chapter may result in the
recordation of a lien and/or the delay in issuance or renewal of any city
license and/or permit; and
      11.   Any other information deemed necessary by the city manager. (Ord.
12-957)
1-4-5: SERVICE OF CITATION:
   A.   A citation may be served either by personal delivery to the citee or by
first class mail through the United States postal service. The date of personal
service shall constitute the issuance date of a citation.
   B.   If served by first class mail, the citation shall be sealed in an
envelope with postage prepaid and addressed to the citee at his or her last
known business or residence address as same appears in public records of the
city, the Los Angeles County tax assessor's office, and/or the secretary of
state. The date a citation is deposited with the United States postal service
shall: 1) constitute its issuance date, and 2) the date that service by
certified mail shall be deemed to have been completed.
   C.   If an agent, manager or representative of a responsible person is
personally served with a citation, a copy thereof shall also be served by first
class mail to the responsible person at his or her last known business or
residence address as same appears in public records of the city, the Los
Angeles County tax assessor's office, and/or the secretary of state. In such
instances, the date a copy of the citation is deposited with the U.S. postal
service shall constitute the issuance date of a citation.
   D.   If service cannot be accomplished personally or by mail for citations
involving a real property related violation of the code, the officer shall post
the citation on the real property where the violation is alleged to have
occurred. The date of posting shall constitute the issuance date of a citation.
   E.   Any notice or order given pursuant to any provision of this chapter
shall be served in the manner provided for in this section, unless otherwise
stated.
   F.   Failure of a citee to receive a citation or notice shall not invalidate
any fine, late penalty charge, action or proceeding that is imposed or brought
pursuant to this chapter, if service was given in a manner stated in this
section. (Ord. 12-957)
1-4-6: ADMINISTRATIVE FINES; FEES; OTHER CHARGES:
   A.   The amounts of the fines imposed pursuant to this chapter shall be set
forth in a schedule of fines established by resolution of the city council. The
city council may, by resolution, also impose escalating fines in amounts it
deems appropriate for repeat offenses of the same ordinance. The amounts of
fines may be modified from time to time by a resolution of the city council.
   B.   If a violation is otherwise classified as an infraction under the code,
the administrative fine shall not exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00) for a
first offense, two hundred dollars ($200.00) for a second offense of the same
ordinance within a twelve (12) month period of time, and five hundred dollars
($500.00) for a third or greater offense of the same ordinance within a twelve
(12) month period of time, as set forth in subdivision (b) of section 25132 and
subdivision (b) of section 36900 of the California Government Code. The amounts
of such fines may be modified from time to time by a resolution of the city
council provided they do not exceed the limits allowed by state law.
   C.   In addition to any fine imposed pursuant to this chapter, a
reinspection fee shall be assessed against any responsible person in an amount
established by resolution of the city council if the responsible person does
not timely and completely correct or abate a violation (with all requisite
approvals, permits, licenses, and/or inspections) after having received
notification from the city to correct or abate same.
   D.   Failure to pay an administrative fine within the period specified on
the citation shall result in the assessment of a late penalty charge. The late
penalty charge shall be equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the total fine
owed (excluding any reinspection fee).
   E.   Failure to pay an administrative fine within sixty (60) days of the
issuance of an administrative citation or, if contested, within sixty (60) days
of an order to pay pursuant to a decision by a hearing officer or judicial
officer confirming the fine, shall result in the imposition of an interest
charge at a rate established by resolution of the city council. Interest shall
not accrue on a late penalty charge or reinspection fee. The rate of interest
may be modified from time to time by resolution of the city council.
   F.   Administrative fines, reinspection fees, late penalty charges, and any
interest due shall be paid to the city at such location or address as stated in
the citation, or as may otherwise be designated by the city manager.
   G.   The due date for the city's receipt of an administrative fine shall be
twenty (20) calendar days from the issuance date of a citation. Thereafter, a
late penalty charge shall be due and owing, as well as interest, as imposed by
this chapter.
   H.   Payment of an administrative fine shall not excuse or discharge a citee
from the duty to immediately abate a violation of the code, nor from any other
responsibility or legal consequences for a continuation or repeated occurrence
(s) of a violation of the code.
   I.   Abatement of a violation shall not excuse the obligation of a citee to
pay an administrative fine or any other charges, fees, or costs imposed as a
result of the issuance of a citation.
   J.   Unpaid administrative fines and other charges, fees, or costs imposed
in accordance with this chapter shall constitute a debt that may be collected
in any manner allowed by law, including, but not limited to, the recordation of
a lien (secured or unsecured) with the county recorder's office and/or with the
California franchise tax board "interagency offset program" 1
. The city may also withhold issuance or renewal of any license, permit, or
other entitlement for any property or business whenever an administrative
penalty resulting from a code violation at said property or business remains
unpaid. The city shall be entitled to recover its attorney fees and costs
arising from an action to collect an administrative fine and other charges,
fees, or costs imposed in accordance with this chapter if it is the prevailing
party and provided it made the election to seek attorney fees at the
commencement of the action. A citee shall be entitled to recover his or her
attorney fees if the city made the election to seek attorney fees at the outset
of the action and the citee prevails thereon. (Ord. 12-957)
 
Notes
1 1. Pursuant to GOV § 12419.10.
1-4-7: RIGHT TO ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING; WAIVER OF ADVANCE DEPOSIT OF FINE:
   A.   Any citee may contest the violation(s), or that he or she is a
responsible person, by filing a request for an administrative hearing on a city
approved form with the office of the city clerk - Temple City City Hall, 9701
Las Tunas Drive, Temple City, CA 91780, within ten (10) calendar days from the
issuance date of a citation. If the office of the city clerk does not receive
the request in the required period, the citee shall have waived the right to a
hearing and the citation shall be deemed final.
   B.   A request for a hearing shall contain the following:
      1.   The citation number.
      2.   The name, address, telephone and any facsimile numbers, of each
person contesting the citation.
      3.   A statement of the reason(s) why a citation is being contested.
      4.   The date and signature of the citee(s).
   C.   No filing fee shall be charged for the filing of a request for a
hearing.
   D.   Requests for a hearing shall be accompanied by an advance deposit of
the entire amount of the fine stated in the citation. Failure to deposit a fine
within the required period, or the tender of a nonnegotiable check in the
required period, shall render a request for an administrative hearing
incomplete and untimely, in which case the citee shall have waived the right to
a hearing and the citation shall be deemed final. Fines that are deposited with
the city shall not accrue interest. Fines deposited shall be returned to the
person tendering the fines in the event a citation is overturned.
   E.   A citee who is financially unable to deposit the administrative fine
with his or her request for a hearing may complete a city approved application
form for an advance deposit hardship waiver (hereinafter, "hardship waiver").
This form and all required accompanying records shall be tendered, along with a
request for a hearing, to the office of the city clerk - Temple City City Hall,
9701 Las Tunas Drive, Temple City, CA 91780, within ten (10) calendar days from
the issuance date of a citation.
   F.   To be considered for a hardship waiver, the application form must be
complete, signed, and must be accompanied by documents that enable the city to
reasonably determine the citee's present inability to deposit the fine.
Documents suitable for consideration, may include, without limitation,
accurate, complete and legible copies of state and federal income tax returns
and all schedules for the preceding tax year; financial statements, loan
applications, bank account records, income and expense records for twelve (12)
months preceding submittal of the waiver form, as well as other documentation
demonstrating the citee's financial hardship. The city may, at its sole
discretion, request additional documents in order to determine a citee's
financial ability to tender an advance deposit of the fine. Failure to submit
sufficient evidence of a citee's financial inability to tender an advance
deposit of the fine shall result in a denial of the hardship waiver. The city
may, at a time chosen in its sole discretion and after a citation is final or
confirmed, destroy or discard the documents submitted by a citee for a hardship
waiver without prior notice to the citee.
   G.   Failure to submit a completed, signed hardship waiver form, along with
sufficient records that support a claim of financial hardship, shall render the
request for hearing incomplete and untimely. In this event, the citee shall
have waived the right to a hearing and the citation shall be deemed final.
   H.   The city shall issue a written decision regarding the application for a
hardship waiver. If the hardship waiver is denied, the written decision shall
specify the reasons for not issuing the hardship waiver. This decision is final
and nonappealable. The decision shall be served upon the person requesting the
hardship waiver by first class mail.
      1.   Approval of a hardship waiver shall result in the city setting a
hearing pursuant to section 1-4-8 of this chapter.
      2.   If the city determines that the citee is not entitled to a hardship
waiver, he or she shall tender the full amount of the administrative fine to
the office of the city clerk within ten (10) calendar days of the date the
decision is deposited with the U.S. postal service. In the event the city clerk
does not receive the full amount of the fine in the required period: a) the
request for a hearing is rendered incomplete and untimely, b) the citee shall
have waived the right to a hearing and the citation shall be deemed final, and
c) a late penalty charge shall be imposed upon the administrative fine.
   I.   A timely request for a hearing shall not excuse a citee from the duty
to immediately abate a violation of the code, nor from any other responsibility
or legal consequences for a continuation or repeated occurrence(s) of a
violation of the code. (Ord. 12-957)
1-4-8: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING PROCEDURES:
   A.   An administrative appeal hearing shall be scheduled and conducted
within sixty (60) calendar days of the date a timely and complete request is
received by the office of the city clerk. A citee who files a request for an
administrative hearing to contest a citation (hereinafter, "appellant") shall
be notified in writing by first class mail of the date, time, and location of
the hearing at least ten (10) calendar days prior to the date of the hearing.
The failure of an appellant to receive a properly addressed notice shall not
invalidate the citation or any hearing or city action or proceeding conducted
pursuant to this chapter.
   B.   At the place and time set forth in the notification of administrative
hearing, the hearing officer shall hear and consider the testimony of the
issuing officer, the appellant(s), and/or their witnesses, as well as any
documentary evidence presented by these persons concerning the violation(s)
alleged in the citation.
   C.   Administrative hearings are informal, and formal rules of evidence and
discovery do not apply. The city bears the burden of proof to establish a
violation and responsibility therefor by a preponderance of evidence. The
issuance of an administrative citation shall constitute prima facie evidence of
the violation and the enforcement officer who issued the citation is not
required to attend or participate at the hearing. The appellant(s), and
officer, if present, shall have an opportunity to present evidence and
witnesses and to cross examine witnesses. An appellant may bring an interpreter
to the hearing at the appellant's sole expense. The hearing officer may
question any person who presents evidence or who testifies at any hearing.
   D.   An appellant may appear at the hearing in person or by written
declaration executed under penalty of perjury. Said declaration and any
documents in support thereof shall be tendered to and received by the office of
the city clerk at least three (3) city business days prior to the hearing. If
the appellant fails to attend the scheduled hearing, or to otherwise submit a
written declaration in a timely manner, the hearing officer shall cancel the
hearing and send a notice thereof to the appellant(s) by first class mail to
the address(es) stated on the appeal form. A cancellation of a hearing due to
nonappearance of the appellant shall constitute the appellant's waiver of the
right to appeal. In such instances, the citation (and corresponding fine and
other applicable fees) shall be deemed final.
   E.   Hearings may be continued once at the request of an appellant or the
officer who issued the citation. The hearing officer may also continue the
hearing for cause. (Ord. 12-957)
1-4-9: HEARING OFFICER DECISION; RIGHT OF APPEAL THEREFROM:
   A.   After considering all of the testimony and evidence submitted at the
hearing, the hearing officer shall issue a written decision to uphold or
overturn the citation and shall state the reasons therefor. If the citation is
upheld and the violation has not been fully corrected as of the date of the
hearing, the hearing officer shall order correction thereof in the decision and
provide a deadline to complete said action(s). The decision of the hearing
officer shall be final. If the citation is upheld and the appellant did not
deposit the fine at the time the appellant requested an administrative appeal
hearing, the hearing officer shall also order the payment of the fine (and
other applicable fees and costs) as set by council resolution within twenty
(20) calendar days of the decision.
   B.   The appellant(s) shall be served by first class mail with a copy of the
hearing officer's written decision. The date the decision is deposited with the
U.S. postal service shall constitute the date of its service. The failure of an
appellant to receive a properly addressed decision shall not invalidate any
hearing, city action or proceeding conducted pursuant to this chapter.
   C.   Decisions of the hearing officer are, in accordance with Government
Code section 53069.4(b), appealable to the superior court within twenty (20)
days after the date of their service. Each decision shall contain a statement
advising the appellant(s) of this appeal right and the procedures and court
filing fee for its exercise. An appellant shall serve a copy of the court filed
notice of appeal on the office of the city clerk - Temple City City Hall, 9701
Las Tunas Drive, Temple City, California, by personal service or first class
mail within five (5) calendar days of filing the original thereof.
   D.   If a hearing officer's decision is not appealed in a timely manner, the
decision shall be deemed confirmed.
   E.   The superior court is the sole reviewing authority and an appeal from a
hearing officer's decision is not appealable to the city council. If a
responsible person prevails on appeal, the city shall reimburse his or her
filing fee, as well as the fine deposit in accordance with the court judgment.
These monies shall be mailed to the responsible person within forty five (45)
calendar days of the city's receipt of a notice of judgment or ruling from the
superior court clerk. (Ord. 12-957)
1-4-10: PENALTIES:
Failure of a citee to comply with a corrective action stated in any uncontested
citation, or with regard to a correction order in any hearing officer decision
that is deemed confirmed and not appealed to the superior court, shall
constitute a misdemeanor. (Ord. 12-957)
1-4-11: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this
chapter is declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be unconstitutional
or otherwise invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions of this chapter. The city council declares that it would
have adopted this chapter, and each section, subsection, sentence, clause,
phrase or portion thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more
sections, subsections, phrases, or portions be declared invalid or
unconstitutional. (Ord. 12-957)
TITLE 2
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
2-1-0: Council Meetings
2-1-1: Contracts With Los Angeles County
2-1-2: Expenses And Compensation
2-1-3: Official City Seal
2-1-4: Unlawful Use Of Seal
2-1-5: City Offices
2-1-6: City Offices; Hours
2-1-7: Voluntary Expenditure Ceiling
2-1-8: Electronic Filing Of Campaign Disclosure Statements And Statement Of
Economic Interest
2-1-9: Campaign Contribution Limits And Restrictions
2-1-9-1: Contribution Limitations
2-1-9-2: Aggregation Of Contributions
2-1-9-3: Limitations On Loans
2-1-9-4: Redesignation Of Candidate Controlled Campaign Committee
2-1-9-5: City Clerk Responsibility
2-1-9-6: Violation
2-1-0: COUNCIL MEETINGS:
Regular meetings of the City Council shall be held in the Council Chamber at
the City Hall, at 5938 North Kauffman Avenue, Temple City, California on the
first and third Tuesday of each month of the year, at such times as are fixed
by resolution of the City Council, unless the City Council meeting falls on a
national holiday or an election day. Council meetings that fall on a national
holiday or an election day will be moved to the next subsequent business day
that is not a holiday. (Ord. 19-1033; amd. Ord. 25-1080)
2-1-1: CONTRACTS WITH LOS ANGELES COUNTY:
The City Council shall have the right to contract with the County for the
performance and execution by designated County officials of the rights, powers
and duties of officers, officials, and employees of the City. Whenever in this
Code, whether set forth in full or by adoption by reference, any power or
authority is granted to an officer, official or employee, the power or
authority is conferred upon the appropriate officer, official or employee of
the City, or the appropriate officer, official or employee of the County with
whom a contract has been entered into. (1960 Code)
2-1-2: EXPENSES AND COMPENSATION:
Upon the submission of an itemized account any Councilmember may be reimbursed
for the member's actual and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of
official duty. Pursuant to Section 36516 of the Government Code of the State of
California, each member of the city council shall receive as salary the sum of
one thousand two hundred seventy-five dollars ($1,275) per month, with such
adjustments as may be permitted from time to time by State law. Such salaries
shall be payable in the same manner and with the similar fringe benefits as are
paid to other employees of the city.
(Ord. 12-954; amd. Ord. 22-1065; Ord. 23-1073)
2-1-3: OFFICIAL CITY SEAL:
The official City Seal of the City of Temple City shall be in the form of a die
two inches (2") in diameter; the form of the die shall be two (2) circles, one
inside the other. Within the smaller circle shall be imprinted words
"Incorporated May 25, 1960", within the larger circle and outside the limits of
the inner circle shall be imprinted the words "City of Temple City,
California", and the center shall contain a camellia, the design for which is
on file with the City Clerk. (1960 Code; amd. Ord. 98-819)
2-1-4: UNLAWFUL USE OF SEAL:
It shall be unlawful for any person, corporation, partnership or other entity
to use the official City Seal, or to reproduce, copy or create any reasonable
facsimile of any City Seal, emblem, without the express consent of the City
Council. (1960 Code)
2-1-5: CITY OFFICES:
The offices of agencies, department officers and employees of the City shall be
located and maintained at 9701 Las Tunas Drive, Temple City, California. (Ord.
89-658)
2-1-6: CITY OFFICES; HOURS:
The hours that City facilities will be open to the public for business shall be
established by the City Council. (Ord. 89-658; amd. Ord. 93-753)
2-1-7: VOLUNTARY EXPENDITURE CEILING:
Pursuant to Government Code section 85400(c), a voluntary expenditure ceiling
of fifty cents ($0.50) per resident is hereby established for candidates and
controlled committees of such candidates for elective office for each election
in the City in which the candidate is seeking elective office. (Ord. 97-804)
2-1-8: ELECTRONIC FILING OF CAMPAIGN DISCLOSURE STATEMENTS AND STATEMENT OF
ECONOMIC INTEREST:
   A.   Any elected officer, candidate, committee, or other person required to
file statements, reports or other documents described by Chapter 4 (Campaign
Disclosure) of Title 9 (Political Reform) of the California Government Code,
and that has received contributions and made expenditures of two thousand
dollars ($2,000.00) or more, may electronically file such statements using
procedure established by the City Clerk. Once an elected officer, candidate,
committee, or other person files a statement, report, or other document
electronically pursuant to this paragraph, all future statements, reports, or
other documents on behalf of that filer shall be filed electronically.
   B.   Any person holding a position listed in Government Code Section 82700
or designated in the City's conflict of interest code adopted pursuant to
Government Code Section 83700, shall file any required Statement of Economic
Interest Report Form (Form 700) online or electronically with the City Clerk.
   C.   An elected officer, candidate, committee or other person may choose not
to use the electronic filing system by filing all original statements, reports,
forms, or other documents in paper format with the City Clerk, until such time
as the City Council determines that electronic filing is mandatory for all
filers.
   D.   In any instance in which an original statement, report, or other
document must be filed with the California Secretary of State or other agency,
and a copy of that document is required to be filed with the City Clerk, the
filer may electronically file a copy with the City Clerk, or may file in a
paper format.
   E.   If, for technical reasons, the City's electronic filing system is not
capable of accepting a particular type of statement, report, or other document,
an elected officer, candidate, committee, or other person shall file that
document with the City Clerk in paper format.
   F.   The City Clerk shall ensure that the City's system makes all
electronically-filed statements, reports, forms, or other documents available
on the internet free of charge and as soon as possible after receipt/deadline.
The data made available on the internet shall not contain the street name of
the persons or entity representatives listed on the electronically filed forms
or any bank account number required to be disclosed by the filer. The City
Clerk's office shall also make a complete, un-redacted copy of the statement,
report, form, or other document available to the Fair Political Practices
Commission for Government Code Section 87200 filers.
   G.   The City Clerk's office shall maintain records according to the City's
records retention schedule and applicable State law commencing from the date
filed, a secured, official version of each online or electronic statement,
report, form, or other document, which shall serve as the official version of
that record.
   H.   The City Clerk is authorized to adopt such administrative policies and
procedures as deemed necessary to implement this section. (Ord. 20-1050)
2-1-9: CAMPAIGN CONTRIBUTION LIMITS AND RESTRICTIONS:
2-1-9-1: CONTRIBUTION LIMITATIONS:
   A.   No person or committee shall make to any candidate or the candidate’s
controlled committee, and no candidate or the candidate’s controlled committee
shall solicit or accept, any contribution that will cause the total amount of
contribution made by the person or committee to the candidate or the
candidate’s controlled committee to exceed $4,900 for any single election.
Adjustment to the contribution limits in January of odd numbered years per the
consumer price index, rounded to the nearest $100. Except for independent
expenditure committees or other committees not controlled by the candidate, no
person shall make to any committee, which supports or opposes any candidate or
candidates for City Council, and no such committee shall accept from any such
person a contribution or contributions totaling more than $4,900 for any single
election. Adjustment to the contribution limits in January of odd numbered
years per the consumer price index, rounded to the nearest $100.
   B.   The limitation of this section shall not apply to contributions of a
candidate’s personal funds to the candidates’ controlled committee on behalf of
his or her own candidacy, but shall apply to contributions made from a
candidate’s spouse.
   C.   No person shall make a contribution to any candidate or a candidate’s
controlled committee in the name of another person.
   D.   No person shall reimburse, pay in advance, or otherwise compensate
another person for a contribution made to a candidate or to a candidate’s
controlled committee.
   E.   No person, candidate, or controlled committee for a candidate shall
knowingly solicit or accept a contribution in violation of this section.
   F.   Any contributions in excess or in violation of the applicable
contribution limitations established by this section and received by any
person, candidate, or candidate’s controlled committee, as applicable, shall be
returned to the person or committee making the contribution within 72 hours of
the candidate or candidate’
   G.   The contribution limits set forth in this section do not apply to any
contribution received by a candidate or his or her controlled committee if such
contribution is used solely to retire campaign debt existing on or before the
effective date of this ordinance. If the contribution received is used, in
whole or in part, to seek nomination for or election to an elected office of
the City of Temple City after the effective date of this ordinance, the
contribution limits established in this section shall apply to the entirety of
such contribution. (Ord. 22-1063)
2-1-9-2: AGGREGATION OF CONTRIBUTIONS:
   A.   Contributions to candidate or to a candidate’s controlled committee
shall be aggregated as set forth in Government Code Section 82012.5 and Section
18215.1 of the FPPC Regulations.
   B.   A person whose contributions are subject to being aggregated under this
section shall disclose to the candidate or the treasurer of the candidate’s
controlled committee of the person’s relative ownership interest in any
“entity”, if any, for purpose of facilitating compliance with this section.
   C.   Contributions by dependents that are under eighteen (18) years of age
and are not emancipated shall be as aggregated contributions by their parent(s)
or legal guardian(s) in equal amounts, unless only one parent or guardian has
legal custody in which event such contribution shall be attributed solely to
such person. (Ord. 22-1063)
2-1-9-3: LIMITATIONS ON LOANS:
   A.   Loans to a candidate or to the candidate’s controlled committee,
whether made by a commercial lending institution in the regular course of
business on the same terms available to members of the public, or personal
loans, shall not exceed totaling more than $4,900 for any single election.
Adjustment to the contribution limits in January of odd numbered years per the
consumer price index, rounded to the nearest $100.
   B.   Loans from different lending sources will be aggregated in accordance
with Section
2-1-9-2 (Aggregation of Contributions) for purpose of determining compliance
with this section.
   C.   Any loan amount in excess or in violation of the applicable limitations
established by this section received by any candidate or a candidate’s
controlled committee shall be returned or paid in full to the lender within
thirty (30) days of the candidate or candidate’s controlled committee’s receipt
of the excess loan.
   D.   The limitation of this section shall not apply candidates making
personal loans to their controlled committee on behalf of his or her own
candidacy, but shall apply to contributions made from a candidate’s spouse.
(Ord. 22-1063)
2-1-9-4: REDESIGNATION OF CANDIDATE CONTROLLED CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE:
   A.   A candidate for elected office in the City shall be able to redesignate
their controlled campaign committee from one election to the next, but any
redesignation must be for an elected office of the City of Temple City. This
section does not prevent a candidate or elected city officer from establishing
another separate committee solely for the purpose of running for an elected
office with a federal, state, or local agency or political subdivision other
than the City, or a committee solely formed to support or oppose a ballot
measure. (Ord. 22-1063)
2-1-9-5: CITY CLERK RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.   In addition to other duties required by law, the City Clerk shall:
      1.   Furnish in writing (where feasible via electronic writing) a copy of
this chapter to all qualified city candidates during the nomination period for
city office.
      2.   Promptly notify city candidate, or his or her campaign committee, of
any errors in their statements or of failure to file.
      3.   Report, in writing, apparent violations of this section to the City
Attorney. (Ord. 22-1063)
2-1-9-6: VIOLATION:
   A.   Criminal Misdemeanor Actions:
      1.   The City Attorney, or the designated and appointed legal
representative for the city, shall investigate and where deemed appropriate
prosecute any violation of this chapter.
      2.   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter or a failure
to comply with any mandatory requirements of this chapter is subject to
prosecution in accordance with Chapter 2 (Enforcement of Code), Section
1-2-0 (Violations, Penalties) of the City of Temple City Municipal Code, and
may be enforced through criminal, civil, administrative, injunctive or other
relief available by law.
   B.   Civil Actions:
      1.   Any person who intentionally or negligently violates any provisions
of this chapter shall be liable in a civil action brought by the City Attorney
(in lieu of criminal prosecution) or by a person residing within the City for
an amount not more than three times the amount of the unlawful contribution.
      2.   If two or more persons are responsible for any violation, they shall
be jointly and severally liable.
      3.   No civil action alleging a violation of any provision of this
chapter shall be filed more than one (1) year after the date the violation
occurred.
   C.   Injunctive Relief: The City Attorney or any person residing in the city
may sue for injunctive relief to enjoin violations or to compel compliance with
the provisions of this chapter.
   D.   Cost of Litigation: The court may award to a plaintiff or defendant who
prevails in any action authorized by this chapter his or her costs of
litigation, including reasonable attorney’s fees, provided, however, no cost of
litigation or attorney’s fees shall be awarded against the city. (Ord. 22-1063)
CHAPTER 2
CITY MANAGER
SECTION:
2-2-0: Office Of City Manager Created
2-2-1: Eligibility
2-2-2: Bond
2-2-3: Absence
2-2-4: Removal
2-2-5: Removal After Municipal Election (Rep. by Ord. 05-901)
2-2-6: Compensation
2-2-7: Powers And Duties
2-2-8: Ex Officio Member Of Boards And Commissions
2-2-9: Duty Of Other Officers
2-2-10: Orders And Directions
2-2-0: OFFICE OF CITY MANAGER CREATED:
The office of the city manager of the city is hereby created and established.
The city manager shall be appointed by the city council solely on the basis of
his executive and administrative qualifications and ability, and shall hold
office at and during the pleasure of the city council. (1960 Code)
2-2-1: ELIGIBILITY:
Residence in the city at the time of appointment shall not be required as a
condition of appointment.
No person elected to membership on the city council shall, subsequent to such
election, be eligible for appointment as city manager of the city until one
year has elapsed after he has ceased being a member of the city council. (1960
Code)
2-2-2: BOND:
The city manager shall furnish a corporate surety bond to be approved by the
city council in such sum as may be approved by the city council and shall be
conditioned on the faithful performance of the duties imposed on the city
manager as herein prescribed. (1960 Code)
2-2-3: ABSENCE:
In case of absence or disability of the city manager the city council may
designate some duly qualified person to perform the duties of the city manager
during the period of absence or disability of said city manager. (1960 Code)
2-2-4: REMOVAL:
The city council shall appoint the city manager for an indefinite term and may
remove him at any time by the affirmative vote of not less than three (3)
members. The city council in removing the city manager shall use its
uncontrolled discretion and its action shall be final, and shall not depend
upon any particular showing or degree of proof. Upon such termination, the
council shall forthwith pay to him any unpaid balance of his monthly salary
plus any and all contractual rights in money or money's worth. (Ord. 05-901)
2-2-5: REMOVAL AFTER MUNICIPAL ELECTION:
(Rep. by Ord. 05-901)
2-2-6: COMPENSATION:
The city manager shall receive such compensation as the city council shall from
time to time determine and fix, and said compensation shall be a proper charge
against such funds of the city and city council shall designate such funds.
Said city manager shall be reimbursed for all sums necessarily incurred or paid
by him in the performance of his duties, or incurred when traveling on business
pertaining to said city under direction of the city council; reimbursement
shall only be made, however, when a verified itemized claim, setting forth the
sums expended for which reimbursement is requested, has been presented to the
city council, and by said city council duly approved and allowed. (1960 Code)
2-2-7: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The city manager shall be the administrative head of the city government under
the direction and control of the city council, except as otherwise provided in
this code. He shall be responsible for the efficient administration of all of
the affairs of the city which are under his control. In addition to his general
powers as city manager, and not as a limitation thereof, it shall be his duty
and he shall have the power to:
   A.   See that the laws of the state of California pertaining to the city,
the city charter, and all laws and ordinances of the city are duly enforced,
and that all franchises, permits and privileges granted by the city are
faithfully observed;
   B.   Appoint, promote, discipline, and/or remove officers and employees of
the city except the city attorney; to transfer employees from one department to
another; and to consolidate or combine offices, positions, departments or units
under his jurisdiction;
   C.   Exercise control over and to supervise in general all departments and
divisions of the city government and all appointive officers and employees
thereof except the city attorney;
   D.   Attend all of the meetings of the city council and its committees
unless excused therefrom by the city council;
   E.   Recommend to the city council for adoption such measures and ordinances
as he deems necessary or expedient;
   F.   Keep the city council at all times fully advised as to the financial
conditions and needs of the city;
   G.   Prepare and submit to the city council the annual budget and to
administer it after adoption;
   H.   Prepare and to recommend to the city council a salary plan;
   I.   Purchase or cause to be purchased all supplies for all departments or
divisions of the city. No expenditures shall be submitted or recommended to the
city council except upon report or approval of the city manager;
   J.   Make investigations into the affairs of the city and any department or
division thereof, and any contract of the proper performance of any obligation
running to the city;
   K.   Investigate all complaints in relation to matters concerning the
administration of the government of the city and in regard to the service
maintained by public utilities in the city and to see that all franchises,
permits and privileges granted by the city are faithfully observed;
   L.   Exercise general supervision over all public buildings, public parks,
streets and other public property which are under the control and jurisdiction
of the city council;
   M.   Devote his entire time to the duties and interest of the city;
   N.   Make reports and recommendations as may be desirable or as requested by
the city council;
   O.   Serve in any appointive office or head of department within the city
government to which he may be qualified when appointed thereto by the city
council and to hold and perform the duties thereof at the pleasure of the city
council;
   P.   Perform such other duties and exercise such other powers as may be
delegated to him from time to time by the city council. (1960 Code; amd. Ord.
89-658)
2-2-8: EX OFFICIO MEMBER OF BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS:
The city manager shall be an ex officio member of all boards and commissions
appointed by the mayor or city council. He may participate in all deliberations
or actions of such bodies, but without the right to vote. (1960 Code)
2-2-9: DUTY OF OTHER OFFICERS:
It shall be the duty of all subordinate officers including the city clerk, the
city treasurer and the city attorney, to cooperate with and assist the city
manager in administering the affairs of the city most efficiently, economically
and harmoniously. (1960 Code)
2-2-10: ORDERS AND DIRECTIONS:
The city council and its members shall deal with officers and employees of the
city only through the city manager, except for the purpose of inquiry and
neither the city council nor any member thereof shall give orders to any
subordinates of the city manager. (1960 Code)
CHAPTER 3
PERSONNEL SYSTEM
ARTICLE A. ADOPTION AND APPLICATION
SECTION:
2-3A-0: Adoption Of Personnel System
2-3A-1: Nomenclature
2-3A-2: Personnel Officer
2-3A-3: City Service
2-3A-4: Right To Contract For Special Services
2-3A-0: ADOPTION OF PERSONNEL SYSTEM:
In order to establish an equitable and uniform procedure for dealing with
personnel matters; to attract to Municipal service the best and most competent
persons available; to assure that appointments and promotions of employees will
be based on merit and fitness as determined by competitive selection
techniques; and to provide a reasonable degree of security for qualified
employees, the following personnel system is hereby created. (1960 Code)
2-3A-1: NOMENCLATURE:
The present tense includes the past and future tenses; and the future the
present. "Shall" is mandatory and "may" is permissive. The masculine gender
includes the feminine and neuter. The singular number includes the plural; and
the plural the singular. (1960 Code; amd. Ord. 92-733)
2-3A-2: PERSONNEL OFFICER:
The City Manager shall be Personnel Officer. With the approval of the Council,
the City Manager may delegate any of the powers and duties conferred upon him/
her as Personnel Officer under this chapter to any other officer or employee of
the City or may recommend that such powers and duties be performed under
contract as provided herein. The City Manager shall:
   A.   Administer all the provisions of this chapter and of personnel rules
not specifically reserved to the Council.
   B.   Prepare and recommend to the Council revisions and amendments to the
personnel rules.
   C.   Prepare a position classification plan, including class specifications
and revisions of the plan. The plan, and any revision thereof, shall become
effective upon approval by the Council.
   D.   Prepare a plan of compensation, and revisions thereof, covering all
classifications in the competitive service. The plan, and the revisions
thereof, shall become effective upon approval by the City Council. (1960 Code;
amd. Ord. 92-733)
2-3A-3: CITY SERVICE:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all offices, positions and
employments in the service of the City, except:
   A.   Elective officers;
   B.   City Manager;
   C.   City Attorney;
   D.   Members of appointive boards, commissions and committees;
   E.   Persons engaged under contract to supply expert professional or
technical services for a definite period of time;
   F.   Part-time and other temporary officers or employees;
   G.   Director of Parks and Recreation;
   H.   Parks and Recreation Manager;
   I.   Director of Community Development;
   J.   City Clerk;
   K.   Economic Development Manager/Assistant to the City Manager;
   L.   Administrative Services Director;
   M.   Administrative Assistant to the City Council and City Manager;
   N.   Planning Manager; and
   O.   Public Safety Supervisor. (Ord. 17-1023)
2-3A-4: RIGHT TO CONTRACT FOR SPECIAL SERVICES:
The City Manager shall consider and make recommendations to the City Council
regarding the extent to which the City should contract for the performance of
technical services in connection with the establishment or operation of the
personnel system. The Council may contract with any qualified person or agency
for the performance of all or any of the following responsibilities and duties
imposed by this chapter, including the following:
   A.   The preparation of personnel rules and subsequent revisions and
amendments thereof;
   B.   The preparation of a position classification plan, and subsequent
revisions and amendments thereof;
   C.   The preparation of a plan of compensation, and subsequent revisions and
amendments thereof;
   D.   The preparation, conduct and grading of competitive tests;
   E.   Special and technical services of advisory or informational character
on matters relating to personnel and administration. (Ord. 92-733)
ARTICLE B. CLASSIFIED SERVICE
SECTION:
2-3B-0: Adoption Of Rules
2-3B-1: Powers Of City Manager
2-3B-2: Loyalty Oath
2-3B-3: Responsibilities Of City Manager
2-3B-0: ADOPTION OF RULES:
Personnel rules, prepared by the city manager subject to this chapter, shall be
adopted, and may be amended from time to time, by resolution of the council.
The rules shall establish specific procedures and regulations governing the
personnel system. (Ord. 92-733)
2-3B-1: POWERS OF CITY MANAGER:
Subject to the provisions hereof and the personnel rules so adopted, the city
manager shall have the power to appoint, promote, discipline, demote and
dismiss officers and employees of the city included in the city service. (Ord.
92-733)
2-3B-2: LOYALTY OATH:
Every person employed by the city shall execute a loyalty oath in the form and
manner designated by the state legislature. (Ord. 92-733)
2-3B-3: RESPONSIBILITIES OF CITY MANAGER:
The city manager shall be responsible for the following procedures within the
framework of this chapter:
   A.   The formulation of standards and qualifications for each class of
position;
   B.   The public announcement of vacancies and examinations and the
acceptance of applications for employment;
   C.   The preparation and conduct of written and/or oral examinations and the
establishment and use of employment lists containing the names of persons
eligible for appointment;
   D.   The evaluation of employees during probationary period and periodically
thereafter;
   E.   The standardization of hours of work, attendance, leave regulations,
working conditions and the development of programs for improvement in
employees' morale, welfare, training and safety;
   F.   The separation from service of employees through layoff, suspension and
dismissal;
   G.   The maintenance and use of necessary forms and records to indicate days
worked, sick leave, vacations, leaves of absence, etc.;
   H.   The establishment and maintenance of suitable methods for effective
communication between the council, city manager, supervisors and other
employees relating to conditions of employment in the city service. (1960 Code;
amd. Ord. 92-733)
ARTICLE C. CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT
SECTION:
2-3C-0: Pay Rates Following Promotion
2-3C-1: Vacation Leave
2-3C-2: Sick Leave With Pay
2-3C-3: Holidays
2-3C-4: Appointments Subject To Chapter
2-3C-5: Abolition Of Position
2-3C-6: Political Activity
2-3C-7: Solicitation Of Contributions
2-3C-8: State Aid For Officer Training
2-3C-9: Standards For Recruitment And Training
2-3C-0: PAY RATES FOLLOWING PROMOTION:
Pay rates upon promotion shall be in line with rules established by resolution
of the city council. (Ord. 92-733)
2-3C-1: VACATION LEAVE:
Vacation leave for city employees shall be established by resolution of the
city council. (Ord. 92-733)
2-3C-2: SICK LEAVE WITH PAY:
Sick leave availability shall be established by resolution of the city council.
(Ord. 92-733)
2-3C-3: HOLIDAYS:
Holidays for the city and for all employees shall be those days as are from
time to time established by resolution of the city council. (Ord. 92-733)
2-3C-4: APPOINTMENTS SUBJECT TO CHAPTER:
The city manager, and any other officer in whom is vested the power to appoint,
make transfers, promotion, demotions, reinstatements, layoffs and to suspend or
dismiss employees shall retain such power subject to the provisions of this
chapter and the personnel rules. (Ord. 92-733)
2-3C-5: ABOLITION OF POSITION:
Whenever in the judgment of the council it becomes necessary in the interest of
economy or because the necessity for the position or employment involved no
longer exists, the council may abolish any position or employment in the
competitive service and layoff, demote or transfer any employee holding such
position or employment without filing written charges and without right of
appeal.
Competency shall be observed in effecting such reduction in personnel and the
order of layoff shall be made by the city manager. Layoff shall be made within
classes of positions, and all provisional employees in the affected class or
classes shall be laid off prior to the layoff of any probationary or permanent
employee.
The names of probationary and permanent employees laid off shall be placed upon
reemployment lists for classes which, in the opinion of the personnel officer,
require basically the same qualifications and duties and responsibilities of
those of the class or positions from which layoff was made. (Ord. 92-733)
2-3C-6: POLITICAL ACTIVITY:
Employees in the service of the city shall not engage in any political
activities proscribed by state law as may be amended by the state legislature
from time to time. (Ord. 92-733)
2-3C-7: SOLICITATION OF CONTRIBUTIONS:
No officer or employee of the city, or any other person directly or indirectly
shall solicit or receive, or in any manner be concerned in the soliciting or
receiving, from anyone on the eligible list or employee in the political
service of the city any assessment, subscription, contribution or political
service, for aiding or assisting in the campaign for city election, or
appointment to any political or official or other position in the city. (Ord.
92-733)
2-3C-8: STATE AID FOR OFFICER TRAINING:
The city declares its desires to qualify to receive aid from the state, and
that its law enforcement agency, the county, receive aid from the state of
California under the provisions of chapter 1, of title 4, page 4 of the
California Penal Code. (Ord. 92-733)
2-3C-9: STANDARDS FOR RECRUITMENT AND TRAINING:
Pursuant to section 13522 of said chapter 1, title 4 of part 4 of said
California Penal Code, the city and the county acting as the law enforcement
agency of the city, while receiving aid from the state pursuant to said chapter
1, will adhere to the standards for recruitment and training established by the
California commission on peace officers standards and training. (Ord. 92-733)
CHAPTER 4
OFFICERS
SECTION:
2-4-0: Assessor And Tax Collector
2-4-1: Assessor And Tax Collector; Abolishment Of Offices
2-4-2: Assessor And Tax Collector; Transfer Of Duties
2-4-3: City Clerk; Duties
2-4-4: Bonds; City Clerk, City Treasurer
2-4-5: Removal Of Papers Or Documents From The City Hall
2-4-6: Salaries
2-4-0: ASSESSOR AND TAX COLLECTOR:
Pursuant to the authority granted by section 51501 of the Government Code of
the state of California, the assessment and tax collection duties performed by
the city assessor and tax collector hereby are transferred to the assessor and
tax collector of the county of Los Angeles. (1960 Code)
2-4-1: ASSESSOR AND TAX COLLECTOR; ABOLISHMENT OF OFFICES:
The offices of city assessor and tax collector hereby are abolished. (1960
Code)
2-4-2: ASSESSOR AND TAX COLLECTOR; TRANSFER OF DUTIES:
Pursuant to the authority granted by section 51507 of the Government Code of
the state of California, the duties of the city assessor, and the duties of the
tax collector, hereby are transferred to and shall be performed by the assessor
or tax collector of the county, respectively. (1960 Code)
2-4-3: CITY CLERK; DUTIES:
Any applications required to be filed with the city or fees required to be paid
to the city, pursuant to the provisions of this code, shall be filed with or
paid to the city clerk, unless otherwise by this code provided. (1960 Code)
2-4-4: BONDS; CITY CLERK, CITY TREASURER:
The city clerk and city treasurer upon the entry to office shall execute bonds
to the city in amounts set by the city council. The premium costs for such
bonds shall be a charge against the general funds of the city. (1960 Code)
2-4-5: REMOVAL OF PAPERS OR DOCUMENTS FROM THE CITY HALL:
No persons unless authorized by the city manager, city clerk, or city attorney,
shall remove any papers or documents from the city hall. (1960 Code)
2-4-6: SALARIES:
The salaries and compensation of officers and employees of the city shall be as
fixed and determined by resolutions of the city council. (Ord. 86-583)
CHAPTER 5
PURCHASING SYSTEM
SECTION:
2-5-0: Adoption Of Purchasing System
2-5-1: Centralized Purchasing Department
2-5-2: Purchasing Officer
2-5-3: Estimates Of Requirements
2-5-4: Encumbrance Of Funds
2-5-5: Requisitions
2-5-6: Purchase Orders
2-5-7: Exemptions From Centralized Purchasing
2-5-8: Cooperative Purchasing Agreements
2-5-9: Open Market Procedure
2-5-10: Bidding
2-5-11: Formal Contract Procedure
2-5-12: Inspection And Testing
2-5-13: Professional Services
2-5-14: Emergency Purchases
2-5-15: Design/Build Contracts
2-5-16: Surplus Supplies And Equipment
2-5-17: Local Vendor Preference Program
2-5-0: ADOPTION OF PURCHASING SYSTEM:
In order to establish efficient procedures for the purchase of supplies,
services and equipment, to secure for the city supplies, services and equipment
at the lowest possible cost commensurate with quality needed, to exercise
positive financial control over purchases, to clearly define authority for the
purchasing function and to assure the quality of purchases, a purchasing system
is hereby adopted. All purchases or services or supplies for "public projects"
as defined in section 20161 of the Public Contract Code (or any successor to
that section) shall be made in accordance with the Public Contract Code and
with sections
2-5-15 and
2-5-17, as applicable, of this chapter. All other purchases of supplies,
services and equipment shall be made in accordance with this chapter. (Ord. 10-
937)
2-5-1: CENTRALIZED PURCHASING DEPARTMENT:
There is hereby created a centralized purchasing department in which is vested
authority for the purchase of supplies, services and equipment. (Ord. 10-937)
2-5-2: PURCHASING OFFICER:
There is hereby created the office of purchasing officer, who shall be
appointed by the city manager. The purchasing officer shall be the head and
have general supervision of the purchasing department. The purchasing officer
shall have authority to:
   A.   Purchase or contract for supplies, service and equipment required by
any using department in accordance with purchasing procedures prescribed by
this chapter, such administrative regulations as the purchasing officer shall
adopt for the internal management and operation of the purchasing department
and such other rules and regulations as shall be prescribed by the city
council;
   B.   Negotiate and recommend execution of contracts for the purchase of
supplies, services and equipment;
   C.   Act to procure for the city the needed quality in supplies, services
and equipment at least expense to the city;
   D.   Discourage uniform bidding and endeavor to obtain as full and open
competition as possible on all purchases;
   E.   Prepare and recommend to the city council rules governing the purchase
of supplies, services and equipment for the city;
   F.   Prepare and recommend to the city council revisions and amendments to
the purchasing rules;
   G.   Keep informed of current developments in the field of purchasing,
prices, market conditions and new products;
   H.   Prescribe and maintain such forms as reasonably necessary to the
operation of this chapter and other rules and regulations;
   I.   Supervise the inspection of all supplies, services and equipment
purchased to ensure conformance with specifications;
   J.   Recommend the transfer of surplus or unused supplies and equipment
between departments as needed and the sale of all supplies and equipment which
cannot be used by any department or which have become unsuitable city use; and
   K.   Maintain a bidder's list, vendor's catalog file and records needed for
the efficient operation of the purchasing department. (Ord. 10-937)
2-5-3: ESTIMATES OF REQUIREMENTS:
All departments using the purchasing department shall file detailed estimates
of their requirements in supplies, service and equipment in such manner, at
such time, and for such future periods as the purchasing officer shall
prescribe. (Ord. 10-937)
2-5-4: ENCUMBRANCE OF FUNDS:
Except in cases of emergency, the purchasing officer shall not issue any
purchase order for supplies, services or equipment unless there exists an
unencumbered appropriation in the fund account against which said purchase is
to be charged. (Ord. 10-937)
2-5-5: REQUISITIONS:
Using departments shall submit requests for supplies, services and equipment to
the purchasing officer by standard requisition forms. (Ord. 10-937)
2-5-6: PURCHASE ORDERS:
Purchases of supplies, services and equipment shall be made only by purchase
order or, where appropriate, by formal written contract. (Ord. 10-937)
2-5-7: EXEMPTIONS FROM CENTRALIZED PURCHASING:
The purchasing officer, with approval of the city council, may authorize in
writing any department to purchase or contract for specified supplies, services
and equipment independently of the purchasing department; but shall require
that such purchases or contracts be made in conformity with the procedures
established by this chapter and shall further require periodic reports from the
department on the purchases and contracts made under such written
authorization. (Ord. 10-937)
2-5-8: COOPERATIVE PURCHASING AGREEMENTS:
   A.   Without complying with the requirements of sections
2-5-10 and
2-5-11 of this chapter, the purchasing officer may participate in a cooperative
purchasing agreement for the procurement of any supplies or equipment with any
federal, state, county or local government agency when that agency has made
their purchases in a competitive manner. The purchasing officer may participate
in a cooperative purchasing agreement when the city can obtain supplies or
equipment at a purchase price lower than that which the city can obtain through
its normal purchasing procedures. In those instances where it is determined
that purchasing through the federal, state, county or local government agencies
will result in savings to the city, the purchasing officer is authorized to
make such purchases.
   B.   The purchasing officer may also buy directly from a vendor at a price
established by competitive bidding by another federal, state, county or local
government agency in substantial compliance with sections
2-5-10 and 2-5-11 of this chapter even if the city has not joined with that
public agency in a cooperative purchase agreement. (Ord. 10-937)
2-5-9: OPEN MARKET PROCEDURE:
Purchases of supplies, equipment, or services and sales of personal property of
an estimated value in an amount more than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) but
less than twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) may be made by the
purchasing officer in the open market without observing the procedure
prescribed in section
2-5-11 of this chapter. Purchase orders shall, whenever possible, be based on
at least three (3) informal quotes. (Ord. 10-937)
2-5-10: BIDDING:
Purchases of supplies, services, or equipment and the sale of personal property
of an estimated value in excess of twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00)
shall be by bid procedures pursuant to this section and section
2-5-11 of this chapter. Bidding shall be dispensed with only when an emergency
requires that an order be placed with the nearest available source of supply,
when the city council by a four-fifths (4/5) majority determines after opening
of bids that rejection of all bids and purchase on the open market will best
serve the city, or when the commodity can be obtained from only one vendor.
(Ord. 10-937)
2-5-11: FORMAL CONTRACT PROCEDURE:
Except as otherwise provided herein, purchases and contracts for supplies,
services, equipment and the sale of personal property of estimated value
greater than twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) shall be by purchase
order or written contract with the lowest (or for purposes of section
2-5-16 of this chapter, highest) responsible bidder, as the case may be,
pursuant to the procedure prescribed; herein:
   A.   Notice Inviting Bids: Notices inviting bids shall include a general
description of the articles to be purchased or sold, shall state where bid
blanks and specifications may be secured and the time and place for opening
bids.
      1.   Published Notice: Notice inviting bids shall be published at least
ten (10) days before the date of opening of the bids. Notice shall be published
at least once in a newspaper of general circulation, printed and published in
the city, or if there is none, it shall be posted in at least three (3) public
places in the city that have been designated by ordinance as the places for
posting notices.
      2.   Bidder's List: The purchasing officer shall also solicit sealed bids
from all responsible prospective suppliers whose names are on the bidder's list
or who have requested their names to be added thereto.
      3.   Bulletin Board: The purchasing officer shall also advertise pending
purchases or sales by a notice posted on a public bulletin board in the city
hall;
   B.   Bidder's Security: When deemed necessary by the purchasing officer,
bidder's security may be prescribed in the public notices inviting bids.
Bidders shall be entitled to return of bid security; provided that a successful
bidder shall forfeit his bid security upon refusal or failure to execute the
contract within ten (10) days after the notice of award of contract has been
mailed, unless the city is responsible for the delay. The city council may, on
refusal or failure of the successful bidder to execute the contract, award it
to the next lowest responsible bidder. If the city council awards the contract
to the next lowest bidder, the amount of the lowest bidder's security shall be
applied by the city to the difference between the low bid and the second lowest
bid, and the surplus, if any, shall be returned to the lowest bidder;
   C.   Bid Opening Procedure: Sealed bids shall be submitted to the purchasing
officer and shall be identified as bids on the envelope. Bids shall be opened
in public at the time and place stated in the public notices. A tabulation of
all bids received shall be opened for public inspection during regular business
hours for a period of not less than thirty (30) calendar days after the bid
opening;
   D.   Rejection Of Bids: In its discretion, the city council may reject any
and all bids presented and readvertise for bids;
   E.   Award Of Contracts: Contracts shall be awarded by the city council to
the lowest responsible bidder who meets the quality requirements. The decision
of the city council shall be final. For purchases of supplies and equipment,
determination of the "lowest responsible bidder" may include the adjustment of
the bid price of a qualifying local vendor (as defined in subsection
 2-5-17B1 of this chapter) according to the local vendor preference procedures
described in subsection
2-5-17B3 of this chapter. For purposes of this section, a "responsible bidder"
means a bidder who has demonstrated the quality, fitness, capacity, and
experience to satisfactorily perform the particular requirements of the city;
   F.   Tie Bids: If two (2) or more bids received are for the same total
amount or unit price, quality and service being equal and if the public
interest will not permit the delay of readvertising for bids, the city council
may accept the one it chooses or accept the lowest bid made by negotiation with
the tie bidders at the time of the bid opening;
   G.   Performance Bonds: The city council shall have authority to require a
performance bond before entering into a contract in such amount as it shall
find reasonably necessary to protect the best interests of the city. If the
city council requires a performance bond, the form and amount of the bond shall
be described in the notice inviting bids. (Ord. 10-937)
2-5-12: INSPECTION AND TESTING:
The purchasing officer shall inspect supplies and equipment delivered and
contractual services performed, to determine their conformance with the
specifications set forth in the order or contract. The purchasing officer shall
have authority to require chemical and physical tests of sample submitted with
bids and samples of deliveries which are necessary to determine their quality
and conformance with specifications. (Ord. 10-937)
2-5-13: PROFESSIONAL SERVICES:
The city manager shall sign all professional service contracts on behalf of the
city. Professional services contracts will be prepared in accordance with the
city's standard consultants services agreement. The process for securing
professional services will be through negotiation or through request for
proposal subject to the contract value limitations of sections
2-5-9 and
2-5-10 of this chapter. (Ord. 10-937)
2-5-14: EMERGENCY PURCHASES:
During times of emergency, as concurred in by the city council or the city
manager, mayor and city attorney, purchases necessary to meet such emergency
may be made without compliance with this chapter. (Ord. 10-937)
2-5-15: DESIGN/BUILD CONTRACTS:
Whenever the city seeks to construct any public work, other than transportation
facilities, with design and construction costs in excess of one million dollars
($1,000,000.00), the city council may proceed to contract therefor as a design/
build project in compliance with California Public Contract Code section
20175.2, as amended, or any later enacted statute regulating design/build
contracts. (Ord. 10-937)
2-5-16: SURPLUS SUPPLIES AND EQUIPMENT:
All using departments shall submit to the purchasing officer at such times and
in such form as he shall prescribe, reports showing all supplies and equipment
which are no longer used or which have become obsolete or worn out. The
purchasing officer shall have authority to sell all supplies and equipment
which cannot be used by any department or which have become unsuitable for city
use, or to exchange the same for, or trade in the same on, new supplies and
equipment. Such sales shall be made pursuant to sections
2-5-9,
2-5-10 and
2-5-11 of this chapter, as applicable. (Ord. 10-937)
2-5-17: LOCAL VENDOR PREFERENCE PROGRAM:
   A.   The city has established a local vendor preference program to be
applied in the procurement of supplies and equipment under section
2-5-11 of this chapter.
   B.   The adjustment to bids provided for under the local vendor preference
program shall be implemented according to the following:
      1.   Qualification For Local Vendor Preference: In the procurement of
supplies and equipment for the city's requirements, preference shall be given
to those vendors who: a) qualify as a local vendor ("qualifying local vendor")
under this subsection and b) submit a written statement in their bid package
requesting to be considered a qualifying local vendor. In order to qualify as a
local vendor, the bidder must certify the following information as part of the
bid package:
         a.   It has fixed facilities with employees located within the city
limits;
         b.   It has a business street address (post office box or residential
address shall not suffice to establish a local presence);
         c.   All sales tax returns for the goods purchased must be reported to
the state through a business within the geographic boundaries of the city; and
         d.   It has a city business license.
      2.   False Certifications: False certifications shall be immediate
grounds for rejection of any bid or if the bid is awarded, grounds for voiding
the bid, terminating any agreement, and seeking damages thereto. Failure to
certify the above information shall result in the bid being considered by the
city without any adjustment for a local vendor as described in subsection B3 of
this section.
      3.   Application Of Local Vendor Preference: The bid of a qualifying
local vendor shall be adjusted according to the following procedures:
         a.   In the tabulation of bids to determine the lowest responsible
bidder, the bid of each qualifying local vendor shall be reduced by five
percent (5%).
         b.   The reduced bid price of the qualifying local vendor will then be
compared to the other bids received by the city to determine the lowest
responsible bidder under section
2-5-11 of this chapter. Notwithstanding this reduction for purposes of
determining the lowest responsible bidder, the contract amount with the lowest
responsible bidder shall be at the bid price. (Ord. 10-937)
CHAPTER 5.5
BUDGET RESERVE FUND BALANCE REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
2-5.5-0: Purpose
2-5.5-1: Definitions
2-5.5-2: Minimum Budget Reserve Fund Balance
2-5.5-0: PURPOSE:
The primary purpose of this chapter is to ensure adequate fiscal resources and
stable delivery of city services during emergencies, fiscal emergencies, annual
revenue fluctuations, liquidity shortages, or severe economic downturns so that
in the event of these occurrences the city is able to continue providing
essential city services and satisfying expenditure obligations. The secondary
purpose of this chapter is to enable realistic long term planning, assist in
development of annual budgets, require the prudent use of resources, and to
implement sound fiscal management practices. To achieve these purposes, this
chapter requires the city to:
   A.   Establish adequate reserves.
   B.   Establish sound fiscal reserve requirements.
   C.   Ensure the city satisfies its short term and long term financial
obligations.
   D.   Establish a periodic review of the city's fund balances and reserves.
   E.   Enhance the city's credit rating.
To achieve the purposes of this chapter it is contemplated that the city will
establish various budget reserve fund balance accounts facilitating funding of
emergencies, contingencies, liabilities and planned major capital projects.
(Ord. 12-953)
2-5.5-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the following
meanings:
   ECONOMIC STABILIZATION RESERVE: As provided in GASB 54 (Governmental
Accounting Standards Board), an identified fund for which the specified purpose
is stabilizing the delivery of city services during periods of operational
deficits resulting from deferral of federal, state, or county remittance and
which may also be used as a short term bridge from unexpected and drastic
downturns in the economy. Pursuant to GASB 54 stabilization is regarded as a
specified purpose only if the circumstances or conditions that signal the need
for stabilization: a) are identified in sufficient detail and b) are not
expected to occur routinely.
   EMERGENCY: As provided in section
2-7-1 of this title.
   FISCAL EMERGENCY: The occurrence of any one or more of the following:
   A.   The existence of a default on a debt obligation for more than thirty
(30) days, or the reasonable probability that the city will default on a debt
obligation, or that the city will not be able to cure a default on a debt
obligation within thirty (30) days;
   B.   The existence of a failure for lack of funds to make payment of all
payroll to officials, officers, or employees of the municipal corporation for
more than one payment cycled;
   C.   The existence of a condition in which accounts due and payable at the
end of the preceding fiscal year, less the year end balance, exceeded one-
twelfth (1/12) of the available revenues during the preceding fiscal year;
   D.   The existence of a condition in which the aggregate of deficit amounts
of all deficit funds at the end of the preceding fiscal year, less the year end
balance, exceeded one-twelfth (1/12) of the total of the general fund budget
for that year and the receipts to those deficit funds other than from transfers
from the general fund;
   E.   The existence of a condition in which, at the end of the preceding
fiscal year, monies and marketable investments in or held for the unsegregated
treasury of the municipal corporation, minus outstanding checks and warrants,
were less than the aggregate of the positive balances of the general fund and
those special funds whose purposes the unsegregated treasury meets, and such
deficiency exceeded one- twelfth (1/12) of the total amount received into the
unsegregated treasury during the preceding fiscal year. (Ord. 12-953; amd. Ord.
12-961)
2-5.5-2: MINIMUM BUDGET RESERVE FUND BALANCE:
The city will maintain combined general fund reserves as follows:
   A.   Emergency/Disaster Reserve - Fifty Thousand Dollars:
      1.   Use of these funds is allowable only when the following conditions
have been met: a) the city council has declared the existence of either an
"emergency" or "fiscal emergency"; and b) the use of the reserve has been
approved by four-fifths (4/5) vote of the membership of the city council.
      2.   Within six (6) months after the council's determination in
subsection A1 of this section the city manager shall present a plan to the city
council to replenish this fund.
      3.   If all or a portion of the reserve is utilized, the reserve will be
restored to the original level as adopted within the next five (5) years or
whenever reasonably possible.
   B.   Liquidity Reserve - Two Million Dollars:
      1.   Funds are to be set aside to provide cash flow for timing of
revenues and expenditures. For example, while payroll costs are biweekly and
fairly predictable, state and county tax payments can vary. The city may also
from time to time have major projects that are grant funded on a reimbursement
basis that require large cash outlays. A "liquidity reserve" is established to
provide the cash on hand needed in between large revenue payments and grant
reimbursements and will alleviate the need for short term borrowing.
      2.   If all or a portion of the reserve is utilized, the reserve will be
restored to the original level as adopted within the next five (5) years or
whenever reasonably possible.
   C.   Local Economic Uncertainty Reserve - One Million Four Hundred Fifty
Thousand Dollars:
      1.   Funds are to be set aside for the purpose of stabilizing the
delivery of city services during periods of operational budget deficits
resulting from the conditions as described in the definition of "economic
stabilization reserve" herein.
      2.   Use of the funds are allowable only when the city council, upon the
four-fifths (4/5) vote of its membership, has approved the use of the fund.
      3.   If all or a portion of the reserve is utilized, the reserve will be
restored to the original level as adopted within the next five (5) years or
whenever reasonably possible. (Ord. 15-1006)
   D.   Other Reserve Designations: The city council may at any time designate
specific fund balance levels for future development of projects which it has
determined to be in the best long term interests of the city.
   E.   Amount Of Reserves: The city manager must include a recommendation for
the amounts to be appointed to these reserves during the annual budget process.
(Ord. 12-953)
CHAPTER 6
CITY COMMISSIONS
ARTICLE A. PARKS AND RECREATION COMMISSION 1
SECTION:
2-6A-0: Parks And Recreation Commission Created
2-6A-1: Members
2-6A-2: Organization
2-6A-3: Meetings
2-6A-4: Absence From Meetings
2-6A-5: Absence For Cause
2-6A-6: Records
2-6A-7: Duties
 
Notes
1 1. Ord. 00-850.
2-6A-0: PARKS AND RECREATION COMMISSION CREATED:
Pursuant to article XI of the charter of the city of Temple City, a parks and
recreation commission is hereby created. (1960 Code; amd. Ord. 91-686; Ord. 95-
777)
2-6A-1: MEMBERS:
The parks and recreation commission shall consist of five (5) members appointed
for two (2) year terms who shall be residents and qualified electors of the
city at the time of their appointment to office and members shall be required
to remain residents and qualified electors of the city during their entire
period of service on the commission. Members shall be appointed as set forth in
section 1103 of the charter of the city of Temple City. (1960 Code; amd. Ord.
90-677; Ord. 95-777)
2-6A-2: ORGANIZATION:
The rules and regulations adopted by the commission and "Robert's Rules Of
Order", where not inconsistent with said rules and regulations, shall govern
all meetings of the commission.
The commission shall elect its chairman from among its appointed members for a
term of one year. The commission shall hold at least one regular meeting in
each month. (1960 Code)
2-6A-3: MEETINGS:
Regular meetings shall be as provided for by resolution of the parks and
recreation commission and approved by the city council. Special meetings shall
be called in the manner specified in the Government Code of the state of
California for the calling of special meetings of commissions and boards. A
majority of the regular members shall constitute a quorum. Less than a quorum
may adjourn any meeting. (1960 Code; amd. Ord. 95-777)
2-6A-4: ABSENCE FROM MEETINGS:
If a member of the commission shall be absent from three (3) successive regular
meetings of said commission, without cause, the office of such member shall be
deemed to be vacant and the term of such member ipso facto terminated and the
commission shall immediately inform the city council of such vacancy. (1960
Code)
2-6A-5: ABSENCE FOR CAUSE:
Where a member of the commission is absent due to illness or unavoidable
absence from the city, and gives notice thereof to the secretary of the
commission on or before the day of any regular meeting by said commission the
same shall be deemed an absence for cause. (1960 Code)
2-6A-6: RECORDS:
The commission shall keep a record of all business, minutes, transactions,
findings, determinations, correspondence and other matters coming before it.
Such records shall be maintained as are public records of other bodies and
agencies. Minutes of the commission shall be filed with the city clerk. (1960
Code)
2-6A-7: DUTIES:
The duties of the parks and recreation commission shall be as follows:
   A.   It shall be the continuing duty of the parks and recreation commission
to monitor the existing parks and recreation programs and to formulate policy
matters directly to the city council in respect to the development and
acquisition of park sites, the development, maintenance and general operation
of existing recreation areas and facilities; and the development of programs
such as senior citizens' services; transportation; human services; youth
services; special events, and other community wide programs and activities;
   B.   To act in an advisory capacity to the city council in all matters
pertaining to parks, parks and recreation programs, transportation programs,
and trees and parkways;
   C.   To act as liaison with the governmental agencies, private social
service agencies, civic groups and citizens in order to establish an ongoing
needs assessment for programs and sites, and to coordinate programs for a more
effective delivery of services and reduction of duplication;
   D.   To advise city staff with respect to matter of administration,
development of park and recreation programs, areas, facilities and services;
   E.   To make periodic inventories of recreation programs that exist or may
be needed within the city, county or community, to review the needs with city
staff and to advise the city council accordingly;
   F.   To advise city staff concerning the preparation of the annual parks
maintenance, recreation/human services, public transportation, and trees and
parkways program budgets, special projects and long range capital improvement
programs;
   G.   To review on an as needed basis ordinances and city policies which
relate to use of city parks and public facilities;
   H.   To develop, review, recommend and implement community activities that
promote and encourage economic enhancement opportunities;
   I.   To assist city staff in the development, review, and amendment of a
comprehensive street tree management plan, street tree inventory, master street
tree list, and landscape plan requirements for private developments;
   J.   To recommend specific guidelines for tree maintenance, landscaping
policies, placement and general pruning standards for publicly owned trees
within the city;
   K.   To assess the effectiveness of the existing ordinances regulating trees
and recommend tree preservation and enhancement ordinances;
   L.   Upon request by the city council or city staff, consider, investigate,
and make findings, reports and recommendations upon any special matter or
question relating to street trees within the city;
   M.   To hear appeals from residents on city staff decisions regarding
denials of permits for removal or altering of trees in public places, or
denials of permits to plant trees in public places;
   N.   To help develop and implement educational and other programs addressing
urban forestry issues. (Ord. 13-966)
ARTICLE B. POLICE COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-6B-0: Establish; Authority
2-6B-1: Salary
2-6B-0: ESTABLISH; AUTHORITY:
The city council shall have the authority at any time to establish itself or to
designate any other committee, board or commission, as a police commission; and
may appoint official and ex officio members thereto. When so established, such
police commission shall have the authority to:
   A.   Designate the city manager as director of public safety with authority
to act pursuant to sections 41601 and 38791 of the Government Code of the state
of California;
   B.   Establish any and all public safety functions and necessary rules and
regulations;
   C.   Appoint peace officers pursuant to the provisions of section 830 of the
Penal Code;
   D.   Issue weapons' permits pursuant to section 12050 of the Penal Code;
   E.   Issue indicia of authority, such as badges, identification, uniforms or
other insignia of peace officer status; and
   F.   Perform any other such duties as may be assigned by the city council.
(1960 Code)
2-6B-1: SALARY:
All members of the police commission and peace officers appointed thereby shall
receive a salary of one dollar ($1.00) per year. (1960 Code)
ARTICLE C. ART IN PUBLIC PLACES PROGRAM
SECTION:
2-6C-0: Purpose
2-6C-1: Definitions
2-6C-2: Art In Public Places Program, Public Art Fund And Advisory Committee
Established
2-6C-3: Annual Art In Public Places Program Plan
2-6C-4: City Appropriations
2-6C-5: Donations And Other Charitable Gifts
2-6C-0: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to establish an Art in Public Places Program
within the City. (Ord. 17-1024)
2-6C-1: DEFINITIONS:
   ADVISORY COMMITTEE: The standing committee established by section
2-6C-2 of this article.
   ART IN PUBLIC PLACES PROGRAM OR PROGRAM: The program established by section
2-6C-2 of this article.
   ART IN PUBLIC PLACES PROGRAM PLAN OR PROGRAM PLAN: The annual report
approved by City Council pertaining to how the Art in Public Places Program is
to be implemented.
   CITY APPROPRIATION: The appropriation of funds by the City to the Public Art
Fund for City projects per section
2-6C-4 of this article.
   PUBLIC ART: Art of a permanent nature procured or commissioned by the City
for installation in a public space.
   PUBLIC ART FUND: Those funds maintained by the City Administrative Services
Director to support the Art in Public Places Program.
   PUBLIC ART PROJECT: The procurement or commissioning, site selection and
installation of public art by the City.
   PUBLIC SPACE: Any property that is owned, controlled, or dedicated to the
City that is generally accessible to the public. (Ord. 17-1024)
2-6C-2: ART IN PUBLIC PLACES PROGRAM, PUBLIC ART FUND AND ADVISORY COMMITTEE
ESTABLISHED:
   A.   Program Established: The City Council hereby establishes an Art in
Public Places Program for the procurement, commissioning and installation of
public art in public spaces. The City Council shall review and approve public
art projects and shall oversee the program, including but not limited to review
and approval of the annual Program Plan and the selection of appropriate public
spaces for the placement of public art.
   B.   Public Art Fund Established: The City Council hereby establishes a
Public Art Fund. The Public Art Fund shall be maintained by the City's
Administrative Services Director and will support public art projects. Funds
received by the City from whatever source, including City appropriations, that
have been restricted or otherwise identified for expenditure for the purpose of
procuring, commissioning, installing and maintaining public art shall be
deposited by the City in the Public Art Fund.
   C.   Advisory Committee Established: The City Council hereby establishes a
standing Advisory Committee of Council members and community members to advise
the City Council on matters related to the Art in Public Places Program,
including the annual Program Plan. This committee shall be comprised of two (2)
City Council members and up to five (5) additional members of the community who
have expertise in or interest in public art. Community members need not reside
in the City but may be employed in the City or otherwise connected to public
art in the City but may not be employed by the City. Selection of community
members is not subject to any formal process and the City Council in its
discretion may select and appoint members for a fixed period of time or for an
open-ended period of time connected to the review and recommendation of a
particular public art project. The City Council has the discretion to remove a
community member from the Advisory Committee if it determines that the
community member's expertise or advice is no longer needed for the program.
Nothing in this section shall be interpreted to limit the authority of the City
Council to establish one (1) or more ad hoc committees if the City Council
deems necessary or prudent to provide recommendations regarding a specific
aspect of the program. (Ord. 17-1024)
2-6C-3: ANNUAL ART IN PUBLIC PLACES PROGRAM PLAN:
It is the intent of the City Council to develop and adopt an annual Art in
Public Places Program Plan that identifies specific program goals for the year,
means of achievement, proposed expenditures, sources of supplemental revenue,
schedule of execution, necessary resources and responsibilities, and an
implementation plan. The Advisory Committee shall meet to review and make
recommendations regarding the annual Program Plan. The City Council shall have
final review and approval authority over the Program Plan. (Ord. 17-1024)
2-6C-4: CITY APPROPRIATIONS:
The City Council may appropriate City funds to the Public Art Fund from time to
time as the Council determines is in the public interest. The City Council may
accept recommendations regarding appropriations or may make appropriations of
its own volition. (Ord. 17-1024)
2-6C-5: DONATIONS AND OTHER CHARITABLE GIFTS:
Consistent with State law, the City may receive offers of donations, gifts,
bequests, grants, and art from any government agencies or private donors
directed to the Art in Public Places program. All donations, gifts, and
bequests directed to the Program are subject to initial review by the Parks and
Recreation Commission and final approval by the City Council. Potential donors
will be referred to the City Manager or his or her designee to discuss the
nature of the gift and the review process. After a preliminary review is
conducted, the City Manager shall refer the matter to the Parks and Recreation
Commission. The Parks and Recreation Commission shall analyze the offer and the
City's ability to incorporate the offer into the Program, and shall make a
recommendation to the City Council regarding acceptance or rejection of the
offer and, where the offer is of physical public art, a public space for
placement of the donation. The City Council shall review the Parks and
Recreation Commission recommendation and may take such further action as it
deems appropriate prior to accepting or rejecting the offer. Funds donated to
the Art in Public Places Program will be accounted for individually and may be
administered by the City Administrative Services Director or designee,
consistent with the donor's restrictions and direction from the City Council.
Art in Public Places Program donations and other charitable monies will be
transferred to the Public Art Fund. (Ord. 17-1024; amd. Ord. 21-1057, 10-19-
2021)
ARTICLE D. TRAFFIC COMMISSION
(Rep. by Ord. 93-747)
ARTICLE E. TRANSPORTATION AND PUBLIC SAFETY COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-6E-0: Created
2-6E-1: Members
2-6E-2: Organization
2-6E-3: Meetings
2-6E-4: Absence From Meetings
2-6E-5: Absence For Cause
2-6E-6: Records
2-6E-7: Duties
2-6E-0: CREATED:
Pursuant to article XI of the charter of the city of Temple City, a
transportation and public safety commission for the city of Temple City is
hereby created. (Ord. 13-986)
2-6E-1: MEMBERS:
The transportation and public safety commission shall consist of five (5)
members appointed for two (2) year terms who shall be residents and qualified
electors of the city at the time of their appointment to office and members
shall be required to remain residents and qualified electors of the city during
their entire period of service on the commission. Members shall be appointed as
set forth in section 1103 of the charter of the city of Temple City. (Ord. 13-
986)
2-6E-2: ORGANIZATION:
   A.   The rules and regulations adopted by the commission and "Robert's Rules
Of Order", where not inconsistent with said rules and regulations, shall govern
all meetings of the commission.
   B.   The commission shall elect its chairman, vice chairman and other such
officers as may be required from among its appointed members for a term of one
year.
   C.   The commission shall elect its officers every twelve (12) months. Said
election shall be held at the regular July meeting of the commission.
   D.   The commission may appoint subcommittees as may be required. (Ord. 94-
759)
2-6E-3: MEETINGS:
Regular meetings shall be as provided for by resolution of the transportation
and public safety commission and approved by the city council. Special meetings
shall be called in the manner specified in the Government Code of the state of
California for the calling of special meetings of commissions and boards. A
majority of the regular members shall constitute a quorum. Less than a quorum
may adjourn any meeting. (Ord. 13-986)
2-6E-4: ABSENCE FROM MEETINGS:
If a member of the commission shall be absent from three (3) successive regular
meetings of said commission, without cause, the office of such member shall be
deemed to be vacant and the term of such member ipso facto terminated and the
commission shall immediately inform the city council of such vacancy. (Ord. 94-
759)
2-6E-5: ABSENCE FOR CAUSE:
Where a member of the commission is absent due to illness or unavoidable
absence from the city and gives notice thereof to the chairman of the
commission on or before the day of any regular meeting by said commission, the
same shall be deemed an absence for cause. (Ord. 94-759)
2-6E-6: RECORDS:
The commission shall keep a record of all business, minutes, transactions,
findings, determinations, correspondence and other matters coming before it.
Such records shall be maintained as are public records of other bodies and
agencies. Minutes of the commission shall be filed with the city clerk. (Ord.
94-759)
2-6E-7: DUTIES:
The transportation and public safety commission shall review community safety
issues referred to the commission by the city council and make appropriate
recommendations regarding the administration of public safety programs,
including vehicular traffic and pedestrian safety, vehicle parking control,
emergency preparedness, and transportation as follows:
   A.   Public Safety Programs:
      1.   The commission shall monitor the adequacy of city public safety
programs, identify service deficiencies and make recommendations to the city
council regarding improvements.
      2.   The commission shall monitor public safety program service levels
and make recommendations to the city council regarding increases or decreases
in service and potential program funding sources.
      3.   The commission shall consider alternative public safety programs and
make recommendations to the city council regarding the feasibility, costs and
benefits of contract service options.
      4.   The commission shall have the authority to act as the hearing body
for the administrative citation program and to take action in accordance with
all applicable local, state and federal laws.
   B.   Vehicular Traffic And Pedestrian Safety:
      1.   The commission shall identify and examine vehicular traffic and
pedestrian safety deficiencies, perform or facilitate related studies and make
recommendations to the city council regarding improvements.
      2.   The commission shall review vehicular traffic regulations and
parking control activities and make recommendations to the city council
regarding improvements.
      3.   The commission shall receive and investigate citizen complaints
pertaining to vehicular traffic and pedestrian safety concerns, and when deemed
necessary by the commission, report the commission's findings and
recommendations to the city council.
      4.   The commission shall have the authority to act as the hearing body
for the administrative citation program and to take action in accordance with
all applicable local, state and federal laws.
      5.   The commission shall review appeals from permit holders for the
overnight parking permit program.
   C.   Emergency Services:
      1.   The commission shall make specific recommendations to the city
council regarding the development and implementation of emergency services
programs.
      2.   All commissioners shall be considered members of the Temple City
emergency organization pursuant to section
2-7-8 of this title and shall actively participate in the Temple City emergency
reserve volunteer program.
   D.   Transportation:
      1.   Develop transportation policy recommendations for city council
approval. Such policy recommendations shall be consistent with other adopted
city plans and policies.
      2.   Review and advise the appropriate city departments, committees,
commissions, and city manager on transportation policies.
      3.   Review transportation plans, including project/master plans (e.g.,
bike master plan, downtown parking strategic plan) and documents that affect
transportation systems in the city for the purpose of providing comments and
advising the planning commission and/or city council.
      4.   Review of public transit system such as a trolley or shuttle bus
system in the city for the purposes of advising city council or other city
commissions.
      5.   Review and recommend effective methods to calm and slow traffic
(e.g., speed humps/bumps, traffic circles, bulb outs).
      6.   Review and recommend effective methods to maximize the efficiency
and safety of circulation system (i.e., circulation element of the general
plan) for all participants including cyclists, pedestrians, and public
transportation. (Ord. 13-986)
ARTICLE F. GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
2-6F-0: Terms Of Office
2-6F-0: TERMS OF OFFICE 1
:
   A.   The members of all city commissions shall serve staggered two (2) year
terms. Two (2) commissioners' terms shall expire on the same date and the
remaining three (3) commissioners' terms shall expire one year later. All
commissioner terms shall commence July 1 and end on June 30. If an individual
is appointed to a commission seat after July 1 to fill a vacancy or for any
other reason, the individual shall be appointed to serve for the unexpired
portion of the term.
   B.   Notwithstanding subsection A of this section, the terms of individuals
appointed to serve on a newly formed or reconstituted commission are deemed to
have commenced on the July 1 immediately preceding their appointment. Two (2)
commissioners on a newly formed or reconstituted commission shall serve a two
(2) year term and the remaining three (3) commissioners shall serve a three (3)
year term. Any commissioner serving on a newly formed or reconstituted
commission may volunteer to serve for the shorter term, and shall be given such
term if approved by a unanimous vote of the commissioners present. The terms
for any remaining seats shall be determined by drawing lots.
   C.   The city clerk shall keep track of the commencement and expiration
dates of all commissioner terms, the names of the individuals currently serving
on a commission, and the dates on which the individuals currently serving on a
commission were actually seated. The city clerk shall notify the city council
of the need to commence consideration of the replacement or reappointment of
commissioners three (3) months before the commissioners' terms are set to
expire. (Ord. 11-940)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 2-6C-5 of this chapter for public arts commission terms of
  office.
CHAPTER 7
CIVIL DEFENSE AND DISASTER COUNCIL
SECTION:
2-7-0: Purposes
2-7-1: Definition
2-7-2: Membership
2-7-3: Council Powers And Duties
2-7-4: Director And Assistant Director Of Emergency Services
2-7-5: Powers And Duties Of The Director
2-7-6: Order Of Succession To Directorship
2-7-7: Powers And Duties Of Assistant Director
2-7-8: Disaster Or Emergency Organization
2-7-9: Organization, Duties And Functions
2-7-10: Emergency Plan
2-7-11: Expenditures
2-7-12: Punishment Of Violators
2-7-13: Succession Of City Council
2-7-0: PURPOSES:
The declared purposes of this section through section
2-7-11 of this chapter are to provide for the preparation and carrying out of
plans for the protection of persons and property within this city in the event
of an emergency; the direction of the emergency organization; and the
coordination of the emergency functions of this city with all other public
agencies, corporations, organizations and affected private persons. Any
expenditures made in connection with such civil defense and disaster
activities, shall be deemed conclusively to be for the direct protection and
benefit of the inhabitants and property of the city. (1960 Code)
2-7-1: DEFINITION:
As used in this chapter, "emergency" shall mean, in accordance with California
Government Code section 8558(c), the duly proclaimed existence of conditions of
disaster or of extreme peril to the safety of persons and property within the
territorial limits of the city, caused by such conditions as air pollution,
fire, flood, storm, epidemic, riot, drought, sudden and severe energy shortage,
plant or animal infestation or disease, the governor's warning of an earthquake
or volcanic prediction, or an earthquake, or other conditions, other than
conditions resulting from a labor controversy, which are or are likely to be
beyond the control of the services, personnel, equipment, and facilities of the
city, and require the combined forces of other political subdivisions to
combat. (Ord. 12-961)
2-7-2: MEMBERSHIP:
The Temple City civil defense and disaster council is hereby created and shall
consist of the following:
   A.   The mayor, who shall be chairman;
   B.   The director of civil defense and disaster, who shall be vice chairman;
   C.   The assistant director, appointed by the city manager with the advice
and consent of the city council, who, under the supervision of the director,
shall develop civil defense and disaster plans and organize the civil defense
and disaster program of this city, and shall have such other duties as may be
assigned by the director;
   D.   Such deputy directors and chiefs of city emergency services as are
provided for in the current civil defense and disaster emergency operations
plan of the city and as confirmed by the director;
   E.   Such representatives of civic, business, labor, veterans, professional
or other organizations having an official group or organization civil defense
and disaster responsibility as may be appointed by the mayor with the advice
and consent of the city council. (1960 Code)
2-7-3: COUNCIL POWERS AND DUTIES:
It shall be the duty of the Temple City disaster council and it is hereby
empowered, to develop and recommend for adoption by the city council, emergency
and mutual aid plans and agreements and such ordinances and resolutions and
rules and regulations as are necessary to implement such plans and agreements.
The disaster council shall meet upon call of the chairman or, in his absence
from the city or inability to call such meeting, upon call of the vice
chairman. (1960 Code)
2-7-4: DIRECTOR AND ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF EMERGENCY SERVICES:
There is hereby created the office of director of emergency services. The city
manager shall be the director of emergency services. Furthermore, there is
hereby created the office of assistant director of emergency services, who
shall be appointed by the director. (1960 Code)
2-7-5: POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE DIRECTOR:
The director is hereby empowered to:
   A.   Request the city council to proclaim the existence or threatened
existence of a "local emergency" if the city council is in session, or to issue
such proclamation if the city council is not in session. Whenever a local
emergency is proclaimed by the director, the city council shall take action to
ratify the proclamation within seven (7) days; otherwise, the same shall lapse;
   B.   Request the governor to proclaim a "state of emergency" when, in the
opinion of the director, the locally available resources are inadequate to cope
with the emergency;
   C.   Control and direct the effort of the emergency organization of this
city for the accomplishment of the purposes of this chapter;
   D.   Direct cooperation between and coordination of services and staff of
the emergency organization of this city; and resolve questions of authority and
responsibility that may arise between them;
   E.   Represent this city in all dealings with public or private agencies on
matters pertaining to emergencies as defined herein;
   F.   In the event of the proclamation of a "local emergency" as herein
provided, the proclamation of a "state of emergency" by the governor or the
director of the state office of emergency services, or the existence of a
"state of war emergency", the director is hereby empowered to:
      1.   Make and issue rules and regulations on matters reasonably related
to the protection of life and property as affected by such emergency; provided,
however, such rules and regulations must be confirmed at the earliest
practicable time by the city council;
      2.   Obtain vital supplies, equipment and such other properties found
lacking and needed for the protection of life and property and to bind the city
for the fair value thereof and, if required immediately, to commandeer the same
for public use;
      3.   Require emergency services of any city officer or employee and, in
the event of the proclamation of a "state of emergency" in the county in which
this city is located or the existence of a "state of war emergency", to command
the aid of as many citizens of this community as he deems necessary in the
execution of his duties;
      4.   Requisition necessary personnel or material of any city department
or agency;
      5.   Execute all of his ordinary power as city manager, all of the
special powers conferred upon him by this chapter or by resolution or approved
plan adopted pursuant thereto, all powers conferred upon him by any statute,
agreement approved by the city council, or by any other lawful authority, and
in conformity with section 38791 of the Government Code, to exercise complete
authority over the city and to exercise all police power vested in the city by
the constitution and general laws;
      6.   Declare hours of curfew for all persons and, during said hours of
curfew, all persons shall be at their homes and shall not be on the streets,
alleys or other public areas of the city, except in cases of extreme urgency.
The curfew shall be declared in a proclamation of the mayor, which proclamation
shall be delivered to the chief of police, who shall then see that said
proclamation and curfew and warn the public that any violation of the curfew
shall be deemed a misdemeanor and violators will be arrested;
      7.   Temporarily close any and all streets, alleys, and other public ways
in the city to the public whenever, in the opinion of the director, it is
necessary in order to maintain the peace of said community;
      8.   Declare all or any business establishments to be closed and remain
closed until further order. Any person, after notice, refusing to close and
remain closed shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. The mayor shall issue a
proclamation which shall be delivered to the chief of police, who shall inform
said business of said proclamation;
      9.   Invoke any or all of the following provisions:
         a.   Alcoholic Beverages: No persons shall consume any alcoholic
beverages in a public street or place which is publicly owned or in any motor
vehicle driven or parked thereon which is within a duly designated restricted
area.
         b.   Weapons: No unauthorized person shall carry or possess any rock,
bottle, club, brick or weapon.
         c.   Restricted Areas: No person shall enter any area designated by
the city manager as a restricted area unless in the performance of official
duties or the written permission from the city manager or his duly designated
representative, or such person shall prove residence therein. (1960 Code)
2-7-6: ORDER OF SUCCESSION TO DIRECTORSHIP:
The director of emergency services shall designate the order of succession to
that office, to take effect in the event the director is unavailable to attend
meetings and otherwise perform his duties during an emergency. Such order of
succession shall be approved by the city council. (1960 Code)
2-7-7: POWERS AND DUTIES OF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR:
The assistant director shall, under the supervision of the director and with
the assistance of emergency service chiefs, develop emergency plans and manage
the emergency programs of this city and shall have such other powers and duties
as may be assigned by the director. (1960 Code)
2-7-8: DISASTER OR EMERGENCY ORGANIZATION:
All officers and employees of this city, together with those volunteer forces
enrolled to aid them during an emergency, and all groups, organizations and
persons who may by agreement or operation of law, including persons impressed
into service under the provisions of this chapter, be charged with duties
incident to the protection of life and property in this city during such
emergency, shall constitute the emergency organization of the city of Temple
City. (1960 Code)
2-7-9: ORGANIZATION, DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS:
The organization's duties and functions of the civil defense and disaster
organization (city emergency organization), its relationship with the American
National Red Cross and the order of emergency succession to the position of
director of civil defense and disaster of the city shall be as set forth in the
current civil defense and disaster of the city shall be as set forth in the
current civil defense and disaster agencies of the federal government and the
state of California. (1960 Code)
2-7-10: EMERGENCY PLAN:
The Temple City disaster council shall be responsible for the development of
the city of Temple City emergency plan, which plan shall provide for the
effective mobilization of all of the resources of this city, both public and
private, to meet any condition constituting a local emergency, state of
emergency, or state of war emergency; and shall provide for the organization,
powers and duties, services, and staff of the emergency organization. Such plan
shall take effect upon adoption by resolution of the city council. (1960 Code)
2-7-11: EXPENDITURES:
Any expenditures made in connection with emergency activities, including mutual
aid activities, shall be deemed conclusively to be for the direct protection
and benefit of the inhabitants and property of the city of Temple City. (1960
Code)
2-7-12: PUNISHMENT OF VIOLATORS:
It shall be a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine not to exceed five hundred
dollars ($500.00), or by imprisonment not to exceed six (6) months, or both,
for any person, during an emergency, to:
   A.   Wilfully obstruct, hinder or delay any member of the emergency
organization in the enforcement of any lawful rule or regulation issued
pursuant to this section, or in the performance of any duty imposed upon him by
virtue of this section.
   B.   Do any act forbidden by any lawful rule or regulations issued pursuant
to this section, if such act is of such a nature as to give or be likely to
give assistance to the enemy or to imperil the lives or property of inhabitants
of this city, or to prevent, hinder or delay the defense or protection thereof.
   C.   Wear, carry or display, without authority, any means of identification
specified by the emergency agency of this state. (1960 Code)
2-7-13: SUCCESSION OF CITY COUNCIL:
The following sections shall govern the succession of the city council during
calamity:
   A.   In the event of great public calamity, such as extraordinary fire,
flood, storm, epidemic, earthquake, sabotage, nuclear catastrophe or enemy
attack any vacancies in the city council shall be filled pursuant to
subsections B through E of this section.
   B.   Any vacancies in the city council to be filled pursuant to subsection A
of this section shall be filled by the members of the city council able to act,
or by the sole remaining member able to act, from members of the planning
commission, transportation and public safety commission and parks and
recreation commission who shall be able to act.
   C.   In the event no councilman is able to act five (5) people, selected
pursuant to subsections C1, C2, C3, C4 and C5 of this section shall act as the
city council until such time as any councilman shall be able to act, at which
time a council shall be selected by the councilman able to act, pursuant to
subsection B of this section. Selection shall be accomplished as follows:
      1.   The five (5) members of the planning commission shall act.
      2.   If there are not sufficient members of the planning commission able
to act, those remaining members or anyone who can act, shall select the members
needed from the transportation and public safety commission.
      3.   If there are no members of the planning commission able to act, the
transportation and public safety commission shall act.
      4.   If there are not sufficient members of the transportation and public
safety commission able to act, the parks and recreation commission shall act.
      5.   If there are not sufficient members of the parks and recreation
commission able to act, those who are able to act shall select the remaining
council members from residents of the city of Temple City.
   D.   Councilmen becoming able to act after one councilman has become able to
act (and has filled the council vacancies) shall replace emergency appointments
with the most recent appointment being the first replaced.
   E.   Upon the conclusion of any public calamity the city council shall cause
an election to be held to fill any vacancy not filled within thirty (30) days
of the particular vacancy in accordance with the Government Code of the state
of California. (1960 Code; amd. Ord. 93-747; Ord. 94-763; Ord. 13-986)
CHAPTER 8
COMMUNITY REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY
SECTION:
2-8-0: Created; Duties; Compensation
2-8-0: CREATED; DUTIES; COMPENSATION:
There being a need for a redevelopment agency to function in the city, a
community redevelopment agency be, the same hereby is, created in and for the
city. The city council of the city does hereby, pursuant to the community
redevelopment law of the state, declare itself to be the said community
redevelopment agency. The said city council, when acting as said agency, shall
be vested with all of the rights, powers, duties, privileges, immunities, and
pay incident thereto. (Ord. 05-902)
CHAPTER 9
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND HOUSING AUTHORITY
SECTION:
2-9-0: Created; Duties; Compensation
2-9-0: CREATED; DUTIES; COMPENSATION:
There being a need for a community development and housing authority to
function in the city, a community development and housing authority be, the
same hereby is, created in and for the city. The city council of the city does
hereby, pursuant to the Health And Safety Code and Government Code of the state
of California, declare itself to be the said community development and housing
authority. The said city council, when acting as said authority, shall be
vested with all of the rights, powers, duties, privileges, immunities, and pay
incident thereto. (Ord. 05-902)
CHAPTER 10
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
SECTION:
2-10-0: Purpose
2-10-1: Authorized Activities
2-10-0:   PURPOSE:
The city of Temple City shall undertake economic development activities,
including, but not limited to, those enumerated in this chapter, for the
purpose of promoting the general health and welfare, the economic welfare, the
public convenience and general prosperity of the inhabitants of the city. The
economic development activities authorized by this chapter accomplish these
purposes and are municipal affairs. (Ord. 12-955)
2-10-1:   AUTHORIZED ACTIVITIES:
In order that the purpose of this chapter be accomplished, the city council, or
the city manager or his designee if directed or delegated to by the city
council, is authorized to perform the following activities:
   A.   Purchase, lease, obtain option upon, acquire by gift, grant, bequest,
devise, or otherwise, any real or personal property, any interest in property,
and any improvements on it, including repurchase of developed property
previously owned by the city;
   B.   Acquire real property by eminent domain if the acquisition of the real
property is found by the city council to be necessary for the economic
development of the city;
   C.   Dispose of real and personal property for fair market value, or for
less than fair market value of the property so long as the disposition is found
to aid in the purposes of this chapter;
   D.   Provide for site preparation work, including, but not limited to,
demolition, clearing, and hazardous substance remediation, for private
developments;
   E.   Insure, rent, manage, operate, repair, and clear real property owned by
the city;
   F.   Rehabilitate, alter, construct buildings on, or otherwise improve real
property in anticipation of disposal or long term lease of the property to a
private or public entity;
   G.   Acquire, demolish, repair, and replace buildings or other improvements
damaged or destroyed due to a state or nationally declared emergency;
   H.   Accept financial assistance from public or private sources for the
purpose of engaging in economic development activities;
   I.   Provide financial assistance in the form of grants, loans, payments of
insurance premiums, tax rebates, or other assistance to assist in the
attraction or retention of commercial and industrial activity in the city;
   J.   Provide financial assistance in the form of grants, loans, payments of
insurance premiums, tax rebates, or other assistance to assist in the
attraction or retention of multi-family housing development to the city;
   K.   Take such other action as the city council finds necessary and
appropriate to encourage economic development within the city for the purposes
of this chapter. (Ord. 12-955)
CHAPTER 11
AWARD OF PUBLIC PROJECTS
SECTION:
2-11-0: Purpose
2-11-1: Definitions
2-11-2: Public Projects
2-11-3: Contractor List
2-11-4: Informal Bidding Procedure
2-11-5: Formal Bidding Procedure
2-11-6: Emergency Procedure
2-11-0:   PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to establish procedures that apply to public
contracts in a manner that is consistent with the uniform public construction
cost accounting act, commencing with Public Contract Code section 22000. (Ord.
13-977)
2-11-1:   DEFINITIONS:
   COMMISSION: The California uniform construction cost accounting commission
established under Public Contract Code section 22010.
   PUBLIC PROJECT: Shall have the meaning as set forth in Public Contract Code
section 22002. (Ord. 13-977)
2-11-2:   PUBLIC PROJECTS:
   A.   Except as provided by subsection D of this section, the city manager
may cause public projects for forty five thousand dollars ($45,000.00) or less
to be performed by employees of the city by force account, by negotiated
contract, or by purchase order.
   B.   Except as provided by subsection D of this section, public projects of
one hundred seventy five thousand dollars ($175,000.00) or less, may be let to
contract by the informal bidding procedures described in section 2-11-4 of this
chapter.
   C.   Except as provided in subsection D of this section and subsection
2-11-4B of this chapter, public projects of more than one hundred seventy five
thousand dollars ($175,000.00) shall be let to contract by the formal bidding
procedures described in section
2-11-5 of this chapter.
   D.   The dollar limits set forth in subsections A and B of this section
shall adjust without city council action as necessary to comply with any
adjustment mandated by the state controller pursuant to the authority granted
by Public Contract Code section 22020. (Ord. 13-977)
2-11-3:   CONTRACTOR LIST:
A list of contractors shall be developed and maintained in accordance with
Public Contract Code section 22034 and any criteria promulgated from time to
time by the commission. This list will be maintained by the city manager. (Ord.
13-977)
2-11-4:   INFORMAL BIDDING PROCEDURE:
The following procedures apply to informal bids for public projects:
   A.   Notice: The notice inviting informal bids shall state the time and
place for the submission of bids and describe the project in general terms with
an explanation of how to obtain more detailed project information. It shall be
mailed to all construction trade journals specified by the commission in
accordance with Public Contract Code section 22036. Notification may also be
provided to the contractors on the list created pursuant to section
2-11-3 of this chapter for the category of work being bid, and to any
additional contractors or construction trade journals. However, if there is no
list of qualified contractors maintained by the county for the particular
category of work to be performed, the notice inviting bids shall be sent only
to the construction trade journals specified by the commission. Further, if the
product or service is proprietary in nature such that it can be obtained only
from a certain contractor or contractors, the notice inviting informal bids may
be sent exclusively to such contractor or contractors.
Where the mailing of notices to contractors and construction trade journals is
required, the notice shall be mailed not less than ten (10) calendar days
before bids are due.
   B.   Opening Bids And Awarding Of Public Project: At the time provided in
this notice, all bids timely received shall be opened. Unless all bids are
rejected, the contract shall be awarded to the lowest responsible bidder.
If the lowest bid received is forty five thousand dollars ($45,000.00) or less,
the city manager is authorized to award a contract. Contracts valued at more
than forty five thousand dollars ($45,000.00) can only be awarded by the city
council.
If all bids received pursuant to the informal bidding procedure are greater
than one hundred seventy five thousand dollars ($175,000.00), the city council
may adopt a resolution by a four-fifths (4/5) vote to award the contract at one
hundred eighty seven thousand five hundred dollars ($187,500.00) or less to the
lowest responsible bidder if it determines that the city's cost estimate was
reasonable. Otherwise, the project shall be rebid under the formal bidding
procedure described in section
2-11-5 of this chapter. (Ord. 13-977)
2-11-5:   FORMAL BIDDING PROCEDURE:
The following procedures apply to formal bids for public projects:
   A.   Notice: The notice inviting formal bids shall state the time and place
for receiving and opening sealed bids and distinctly describe the projects. It
shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the city at least
fourteen (14) calendar days before the bidding opening date. It shall also be
sent electronically, if available, by either facsimile or electronic mail and
mailed to all construction trade journals specified in accordance with Public
Contract Code section 22036.
   B.   Opening Bids And Award Of Public Project: At the time provided in the
notice inviting formal bids, all bids timely received shall be opened. Unless
all bids are rejected, the contract shall be awarded to the lowest responsible
bidder. (Ord. 13-977)
2-11-6:   EMERGENCY PROCEDURE:
In the case of an emergency when repairs or replacements are necessary, the
city council may proceed at once to replace or repair any public facility
without adopting plans, specifications, or working details, or giving notice
for bids to let contracts. The work may be done by day labor under the
direction of city council, by contractor, or by a combination of the two. In
any such emergency, if notice for the bids will not be given, the city shall
comply with the procedures set forth in Public Contract Code section 22050.
(Ord. 13-977)
TITLE 3
PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
FIRE CODE
SECTION:
3-1-0: Adoption
3-1-1: Application To City
3-1-2: Open Fires
3-1-3: Fire Hydrants
3-1-4: Enforcement Of Chapter
3-1-5: Definitions
3-1-6: General Prohibition Against Manufacture, Sale, Use, Display, Discharge,
Or Possession Of Dangerous Fireworks
3-1-7: Sale Of Safe And Sane Fireworks
3-1-8: Use, Display Or Discharge Of Safe And Sane Fireworks
3-1-9: Permit For Public Displays Of Fireworks And/Or Special Effects
3-1-10: Seizure Of Fireworks In Violation Of Chapter
3-1-11: Sale/Discharge Of Fireworks (Rep. by Ord. 13-968)
3-1-12: Unlawful Discharge (Rep. by Ord. 13-968)
3-1-13: Permit Application Procedure
3-1-14: Qualifications Of Permittees
3-1-15: Permit Application Filing
3-1-16: Permit Application Contents
3-1-17: Operation Of Stands
3-1-18: Sales From Designated Structures
3-1-19: Violations
3-1-0: ADOPTION:
The city of Temple City hereby adopts the consolidated fire protection district
of Los Angeles County (district) fire code as the fire code for the city of
Temple City. Said district fire code is codified in title 32 of the Los Angeles
County code. (Ord. 11-946)
3-1-1: APPLICATION TO CITY:
The city hereby adopts the Los Angeles County fire department as the city fire
department and the county fire chief as the city fire chief. (1960 Code)
3-1-2: OPEN FIRES:
Section 27.101, reading as follows, is hereby added to said ordinance 2947:
Section 27.101. Open Fires.
There shall be excepted from this section:
   A.   The burning of charcoal, briquettes, natural gas or similar fuel, for
the purpose of cooking food products in containers or pits located in yards of
improved properties; and
   B.   The burning of wicks, lanterns or torches for lighting or ornamental
effects.
   (1960 Code)
3-1-3: FIRE HYDRANTS:
All premises where buildings or portions of buildings, other than single-family
or duplex dwellings, are hereafter constructed shall be provided as may be
required by the chief with approved fire hydrants connected to a water system
capable of supplying the fire flow required by the chief. Access to fire
hydrants shall be provided and maintained to accommodate firefighting
apparatus. (1960 Code)
3-1-4: ENFORCEMENT OF CHAPTER:
All provisions of this chapter shall be carried out and enforced in conjunction
with the law enforcement agency of the city and by the fire chief. The general
supervision of conditions and equipment which aid in control of fire,
conditions constituting fire hazards or danger to life or property, and the
abatement or minimizing of such fire hazards or dangerous conditions shall be
the responsibility of the said fire chief. (1960 Code)
3-1-5: DEFINITIONS:
The most current adopted definitions set forth in the state fireworks law 1
will define the terms used in sections
 3-1-5 through
3-1-19 of this chapter unless otherwise modified herein:
   CITY: The city of Temple City.
   DANGEROUS FIREWORKS: Any fireworks specified as such in the state fireworks
law, Health And Safety Code section 12505, and such other fireworks as may be
determined to be dangerous by the state fire marshal. "Dangerous fireworks"
shall include any safe and sane fireworks that have been altered in such a
manner as to provide said fireworks the qualities of dangerous fireworks as
defined herein.
   FIREWORKS PERMIT: A permit issued by the city to sell safe and sane
fireworks within the city in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   MINOR: A person under the age of eighteen (18) years. (Ord. 13-968)
 
Notes
1 1. HSC § 12500 et seq.
3-1-6: GENERAL PROHIBITION AGAINST MANUFACTURE, SALE, USE, DISPLAY, DISCHARGE,
OR POSSESSION OF DANGEROUS FIREWORKS:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no person shall
manufacture, use, discharge, sell, offer for sale, or display for sale any
dangerous fireworks or any altered safe and sane fireworks within the city
limits.
   B.   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no person shall possess
twenty five (25) pounds or less (gross weight including packaging) of any
dangerous fireworks. (Ord. 13-968)
3-1-7: SALE OF SAFE AND SANE FIREWORKS:
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, offer for
sale, or display for sale any safe and sane fireworks within the city limits
without having first procured a valid fireworks permit in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Location Of Sales: It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, offer
for sale, or display for sale any safe and sane fireworks within the city
limits unless the sale, display for sale, or offer for sale occurs within a
designated structure pursuant to section
3-1-18 of this chapter.
   C.   Hours Of Sale: It shall be unlawful to sell, offer for sale, or display
for sale any safe and sane fireworks within the city limits except on July 1
through July 3, between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and ten o'clock
(10:00) P.M.; and on July 4 between eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and eight o'clock
(8:00) P.M.
   D.   Sale To Minors Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to
cause, permit, allow, aid, abet, or suffer the sale of any safe and sane
fireworks to a minor at any time. (Ord. 13-968)
3-1-8: USE, DISPLAY OR DISCHARGE OF SAFE AND SANE FIREWORKS:
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no person shall use, discharge,
sell, offer for sale, or display for sale any safe and sane fireworks within
city limits. It shall also be unlawful for any person having care, custody, or
control of real property to suffer or permit any person to use, discharge,
sell, offer for sale, or display for sale any fireworks thereon unless in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   A.   Hours Of Discharge: Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, it
shall be unlawful for any person to use or discharge any safe and sane
fireworks except on July 4 during the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) noon to
ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.
   B.   Location Limitations Of Discharge: Except as otherwise provided in this
chapter, it shall be unlawful for any person to ignite, discharge, project or
otherwise fire or use any safe and sane fireworks upon or over or onto the
property of another without his/her consent or within ten feet (10') of any
residence, dwelling or other structure used as a place of habitation by human
beings or within any city park. No person shall ignite, discharge, project or
otherwise fire or use any safe and sane fireworks within fifty feet (50') of
any fireworks stand.
   C.   Discharge By Minors Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any minor to
use, discharge, explode, fire, or set off any safe and sane fireworks unless
under the direct supervision and in the immediate presence of a parent, legal
guardian, or other custodial adult eighteen (18) years of age or older and
during the times permitted by this chapter.
It shall also be unlawful for any person having the care, custody or control of
a minor to permit such minor to use, discharge, explode, fire or set off any
dangerous fireworks or any altered safe and sane fireworks, at any time, or to
permit such minor to use, discharge, explode, fire or set off any safe and sane
fireworks unless such minor does so under the direct supervision and in the
immediate presence of a parent, legal guardian, or other custodial adult
eighteen (18) years of age or older and during the times permitted by this
chapter. (Ord. 13-968)
3-1-9: PERMIT FOR PUBLIC DISPLAYS OF FIREWORKS AND/OR SPECIAL EFFECTS:
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful to cause, allow, permit, aid,
abet, or suffer any discharge of dangerous fireworks (including a public
display) or any use of special effects without having first obtained a permit
therefor from the fire chief.
   B.   Rules And Regulations: The fire chief shall have authority to adopt
reasonable rules and regulations for the granting of nontransferable permits
for those activities contained in section 12640 of the California Health And
Safety Code, including supervised public displays of fireworks by a
jurisdiction, fair association, amusement park, other organization, or for the
use of fireworks by artisans in pursuit of their trade. Each such use or
display shall be handled by a licensed pyrotechnic operator 1
in accordance with a city issued permit, and shall be of such character and so
located, discharged or fired as in the opinion of the fire chief or his
designee, after proper investigation, will not be hazardous or endanger any
person. A permittee shall strictly adhere to any rules, regulations, or
conditions pertaining to the granting of a permit.
   C.   Required Bond/Insurance: The permittee for a fireworks display shall
furnish a bond or certificate of insurance in an amount deemed adequate by the
city manager (or designee thereof) for the payment of all damages which may be
caused either to a person or persons or to property by reason of the permitted
display, and arising from any acts of the permittee and/or agents, employees,
or subcontractors thereof.
   D.   Disposal Of Unused Fireworks: The permittee of any fireworks display,
having any fireworks that are unfired after the display has concluded, shall
immediately dispose of same in a safe manner for the particular type of
fireworks remaining and in accordance with all applicable laws. (Ord. 13-968)
 
Notes
1 1. As defined by HSC § 12527.
3-1-10: SEIZURE OF FIREWORKS IN VIOLATION OF CHAPTER:
The fire chief (or designee thereof) shall seize, take, remove, and dispose of
(in an approved manner) or cause to be seized, removed, and disposed of (in an
approved manner), at the expense of the owner of same, all fireworks offered or
exposed for sale, stored, possessed, or used in violation of this code. The
seizure and disposal shall be conducted in accordance with the California
Health And Safety Code and other applicable laws. (Ord. 13-968)
3-1-11: SALE/DISCHARGE OF FIREWORKS:
(Rep. by Ord. 13-968)
3-1-12: UNLAWFUL DISCHARGE:
(Rep. by Ord. 13-968)
3-1-13: PERMIT APPLICATION PROCEDURE:
Upon receipt of written application for a fireworks permit, the city manager
shall make an investigation and submit to the city council a report of his
findings and his recommendations for or against the issuance of a permit,
together with his reasons therefor. After receipt of such recommendations and
report, the city council shall have the power, in its discretion, to grant or
deny the application. Any permit granted by the city council may be subject to
such reasonable conditions and restrictions as may be imposed by the city
council and such conditions and restrictions shall be complied with by the
permittee. The city council shall require a cash deposit with the city clerk in
the sum of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each twenty four feet (24') in
length or portion thereof, of the fireworks stand to be used by the applicant
as a condition of granting a permit. Such deposit shall be refunded to the
permittee upon compliance with all code provisions, but such deposit shall be
forfeited and retained by the city in the event of noncompliance. (1960 Code)
3-1-14: QUALIFICATIONS OF PERMITTEES:
   A.   No permit shall be issued to any person except nonprofit associations
or corporations organized primarily for veteran, patriotic, welfare, civic
betterment or charitable purposes. Each such organization must have its
principal and permanent meeting place in the city and must have been organized
and established in the area that is within the city for a minimum of two (2)
years continuously preceding the filing of the application for the permit and
must have a bona fide membership of at least twenty (20) members.
   B.   Every stand shall submit to the city by October 30 of each year, a copy
of the state board of equalization's state, local and district sales and use
tax return from the operation of the fireworks stand for the prior July.
Failure to do so shall result in the following:
      1.   Unable to get a permit for the following year; and
      2.   The deposit placed with the city shall be held until such time the
report is filed but no longer than one year from the due date, at which time
the deposit is thereby forfeited to the city.
   C.   No more than twelve (12) fireworks permits shall be issued in any year.
Fireworks permits shall be issued first to those qualified persons who held a
fireworks permit during the previous year. If there are any remaining available
fireworks permits after those seeking a repeat permit have been considered, the
remaining permits shall be distributed by lottery. (1960 Code; amd. Ord. 91-
691; Ord. 96-792; Ord. 11-943)
3-1-15: PERMIT APPLICATION FILING:
Applications for such permit:
   A.   Shall be made in writing.
   B.   Shall be accompanied by a current roster of members.
   C.   Shall be filed with the city manager between January 1 and March 31 of
each year.
   D.   Shall set forth the proposed location of any and all fireworks stands
applied for, and the length thereof.
   E.   Shall be accompanied by a certificate of insurance in the amount of one
million dollars ($1,000,000.00) public liability with an endorsement attached
to the policy designating the city of Temple City as additional insured.
   F.   Shall be accompanied by a nonrefundable permit fee as set and/or
modified by resolution of the city council.
   G.   Applicants for any such permits shall be notified by the city manager
of the granting or rejection of their application for permit on or before May 1
of each calendar year.
   H.   Upon approval of permit, applicant shall be issued a separate temporary
business license. The fee shall be waived by the city council. (1960 Code; amd.
Ord. 92-715; Ord. 96-792)
3-1-16: PERMIT APPLICATION CONTENTS:
Each such application shall show the following:
   A.   Name and address of applicant.
   B.   The applicant's status as a nonprofit organization.
   C.   The name and address of the officers, if any, of the applicant.
   D.   The location where the applicant will sell fireworks.
   E.   When the applicant was organized and established.
   F.   The location of the applicant's principal and permanent meeting place.
   G.   The applicant's state board of equalization sales tax permit number.
(1960 Code)
3-1-17: OPERATION OF STANDS:
The following regulations shall be complied with in the operation of fireworks
stands:
   A.   No person other than the licensee organization, its members and members
of their families, shall operate the stand for which the license is issued, or
share or otherwise participate in the profits of such stand. No assignment or
licensing or other use of the permit may be permitted.
   B.   No person other than the individuals who are members of the licensee
organization, or the spouses or adult children of such members, shall sell or
otherwise participate in the sale of fireworks at such stand.
   C.   No person shall be paid consideration for selling or otherwise
participating in the sale of fireworks at such stand.
   D.   Each person, group or organization shall be limited to one permit per
year and each permit shall be limited to one stand. (1960 Code)
3-1-18: SALES FROM DESIGNATED STRUCTURES:
All retail sales of safe and sane fireworks shall be permitted only from within
a temporary fireworks stand and the sale from any other building or structure
is hereby prohibited. Such temporary stands shall be subject to the following
provisions:
   A.   Fireworks stands need not comply with the provisions of the building
code of the city provided, however, that all stands shall be erected under the
supervision of the inspector who shall require that stands be constructed in a
manner which will reasonably ensure the safety of attendants and patrons, and
any stands constructed shall obtain an electrical permit from the city.
   B.   If, in the judgment of the fire department and the building inspector
of the city, the construction of the stands or the conduct of the operators
therein do not conform to the provisions of this code, such officers, or either
of them, may order the stands immediately to close.
   C.   No person shall be allowed in the interior of the stand except those
directly employed in the sale of fireworks.
   D.   There shall be at least one supervisor, twenty one (21) years of age or
older, on duty at all times. No person under eighteen (18) years of age shall
be allowed inside the booth at any time.
   E.   No fireworks shall remain unattended at any time regardless of whether
the fireworks stand is open for business or not. No person shall sleep in the
stand.
   F.   No stand shall be placed closer than twenty five feet (25') to any
other building.
   G.   "NO SMOKING" signs shall be prominently displayed both inside and
outside the stand. No smoking shall be permitted within the stand, or within
fifteen feet (15') of the stand.
   H.   All weeds and combustible material shall be cleared from the location
of the stand. No rubbish shall be allowed to accumulate in or around any
fireworks stand, nor shall a fire nuisance be permitted to exist.
   I.   No stand shall be erected before June 15 of any year. The premises on
which the stand is erected shall be cleared of all structures and debris within
seventy two (72) hours after twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight of July 4.
   J.   All stands must be equipped with at least one fire extinguisher, type
2A, for each exit in the stand, which fire extinguishers must be approved as to
efficiency and safety by the fire department.
   K.   Each stand in excess of twenty feet (20') in length must have at least
two (2) exits and each stand in excess of forty feet (40') in length must have
at least three (3) exits spaced approximately equidistant apart, provided
however, that in no case shall the distance between exits exceed twenty feet
(20').
   L.   No stand shall be constructed with a depth of more than twelve feet
(12').
   M.   "No Drinking Of Alcoholic Beverages" signs shall be prominently
displayed both inside and outside the stand. No drinking of alcoholic beverages
shall be permitted within the stand, or within fifteen feet (15') of the stand;
nor shall any person handling or selling fireworks be under the influence of
alcohol or any other controlled substances; nor shall any alcoholic beverages
or controlled substances be contained within the stand. (Ord. 85-563)
3-1-19: VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Any person who causes, permits, aids, abets, or suffers a violation of
any provision of this chapter (with the exception of a violation of subsection
 3-1-6B of this chapter), or who fails to comply with any obligation or
requirement of this chapter, or who fails to strictly adhere to any condition
of a permit issued pursuant to this chapter, is guilty of a misdemeanor offense
punishable in accordance with section
1-2-0 of this code.
   B.   Any person who causes, permits, aids, abets, or suffers a violation of
any provision of this chapter (including a violation of subsection
3-1-6B of this chapter), or who fails to comply with any obligation or
requirement of this chapter, or who fails to strictly adhere to any condition
of a permit issued pursuant to this chapter, is subject to an administrative
fine in accordance with title 1, chapter 4 of this code. (Ord. 13-968)
CHAPTER 2
PUBLIC HEALTH CODE
ARTICLE A. GENERAL
SECTION:
3-2A-0: Adoption Of Code
3-2A-1: Adoption Of Los Angeles County Ordinance 97-0071
3-2A-2: Copies On File With City Clerk
3-2A-3: Application To City
3-2A-4: Swimming Pool Regulation 1
(Rep. by Ord. 14-990)
3-2A-5: Maintenance Of Swimming Pool
3-2A-6: Construction Of Swimming Pools
3-2A-7: Compliance With This Chapter
3-2A-8: Permit For Enclosures
3-2A-9: Enclosures Complying With Zoning Regulations
3-2A-10: Permitted Deviation
 
Notes
1 1. See title 7, chapter 7 of this code.
3-2A-0: ADOPTION OF CODE:
Except as hereinafter provided, that certain Public Health Code known and
designated as the Los Angeles County Public Health Code as contained in Los
Angeles County ordinance 7583 and including all amendments and supplements
enacted and in effect on or before December 31, 1974, shall be and become the
Public Health Code of the city of Temple City. (1960 Code)
3-2A-1: ADOPTION OF LOS ANGELES COUNTY ORDINANCE 97-0071:
Ordinance 97-0071 of the county of Los Angeles is hereby adopted and made a
part of this code, three (3) copies of which are on file with the city clerk.
(1960 Code; amd. Ord. 98-815)
3-2A-2: COPIES ON FILE WITH CITY CLERK:
Three (3) copies of ordinance 7583 have been deposited with the city clerk and
shall be at all times maintained by said clerk for use of and examination by
the public. (1960 Code)
3-2A-3: APPLICATION TO CITY:
The city hereby adopts the county health department as the city health
department and the county health officer as the city health officer. (1960
Code)
3-2A-4: SWIMMING POOL REGULATION 1
:
(Rep. by Ord. 14-990)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 7, chapter 7 of this code.
3-2A-5: MAINTENANCE OF SWIMMING POOL:
All swimming pools or bodies of water within the city shall be so maintained as
to not cause any public health hazard, including, but not limited to, the
creation of mosquitoes. (1960 Code)
3-2A-6: CONSTRUCTION OF SWIMMING POOLS:
All plans for construction of swimming pools or body of water shall show
compliance with this code. Final inspection and approval of all swimming pools
or bodies of water shall be withheld until all requirements of this code have
been met. (1960 Code)
3-2A-7: COMPLIANCE WITH THIS CHAPTER:
All requirements of this code shall apply to existing swimming pools and
outside bodies of water. (1960 Code)
3-2A-8: PERMIT FOR ENCLOSURES:
A permit shall be secured from the city for the installation of any fence or
wall required by this code prior to erection and shall conform to all city
regulations pertaining to buildings or structures. (1960 Code)
3-2A-9: ENCLOSURES COMPLYING WITH ZONING REGULATIONS:
Any fence or wall erected for the purpose of complying with this chapter shall
conform to all zoning regulations of the city, provided, further that no
swimming pool or outside body of water shall be constructed where protective
fencing required by this chapter will be in conflict with said zoning
regulations. (1960 Code)
3-2A-10: PERMITTED DEVIATION:
When practical difficulties, unnecessary hardships or results inconsistent with
the general intent and purpose of this chapter occur by reason of strict
interpretation of any of its provisions, the planning commission, upon its own
motion may, or upon the verified application of any interested person, shall
initiate proceedings for consideration of the granting of a deviation from the
requirements of this chapter. (1960 Code)
ARTICLE B. PHOSPHATES
SECTION:
3-2B-0: Definitions
3-2B-1: Display Of Information
3-2B-2: Specifications For Displays
3-2B-3: Violations
3-2B-4: Compliance
3-2B-0: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms shall have only the meanings set forth herein:
   PERSON: Any individual, partnership, association or corporation.
   PHOSPHATE: As used in this chapter shall include pendadosium
trypolyphosphate (NA5P3O10) and all derivatives thereof. (1960 Code)
3-2B-1: DISPLAY OF INFORMATION:
From and after the passage of this chapter, every laundromat, supermarket or
business establishment where detergents are sold, shall provide and display in
a conspicuous plainly visible location at or near where the detergent products
are on display, a sign containing a list of all detergents sold in said
establishment and setting forth the percentile of phosphate content in each of
said detergents. (1960 Code)
3-2B-2: SPECIFICATIONS FOR DISPLAYS:
Each sign required by the terms of this chapter shall be at least two feet (2')
in height and three feet (3') wide, shall be comprised of block lettering at
least one inch (1") in height on an otherwise white background, and shall have
the following introductory heading:
PHOSPHATES IN DETERGENTS CAN DAMAGE THE CITY SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM AND POLLUTE
LAKES, RIVERS AND OCEANS.
THE FOLLOWING LIST OF DETERGENTS AND THE PERCENTILE OF PHOSPHATE CONTENT OF
EACH IS, THEREFORE, SUBMITTED FOR YOUR CONSIDERATION.
(1960 Code)
3-2B-3: VIOLATIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale, any detergent in
any business establishment without having posted the sign as required in this
chapter. (1960 Code)
3-2B-4: COMPLIANCE:
In order to comply with the percentile requirements of this chapter, the
requisite sign may contain the various detergents with their phosphate content
as set forth in the release of the federal water quality administration dated
May 1, 1970, and any subsequent release and such other detergents as may be
added from time to time. (1960 Code)
ARTICLE C. SECONDHAND SMOKE CONTROL
SECTION:
3-2C-0: Title
3-2C-1: Purpose And Legislative Findings
3-2C-2: Definitions
3-2C-3: Smoking Prohibited
3-2C-4: Smoking Prohibited Within Reasonable Distances
3-2C-5: Other Requirements And Prohibitions
3-2C-6: Penalties And Enforcement
3-2C-7: Private Enforcement
3-2C-8: Severability
3-2C-0: TITLE:
This article may be referred to as the city's COMPREHENSIVE SECONDHAND SMOKE
CONTROL ORDINANCE. (Ord. 12-964)
3-2C-1: PURPOSE AND LEGISLATIVE FINDINGS:
   A.   Purpose: The purposes of this article are to:
      1.   Protect the public health, safety, and general welfare by
prohibiting smoking in public places and in the interior common areas of multi-
family residential housing under circumstances where one or more persons will
be exposed to secondhand smoke;
      2.   Ensure a cleaner and more hygienic environment for the city, its
residents, its guests, and its natural resources;
      3.   Strike a reasonable balance between the needs of persons who smoke
and the needs of nonsmokers, including children, to breathe smoke free air, by
recognizing the threat to public health and the environment that smoking
causes, and by acknowledging that, when these needs conflict, the need to
breathe smoke free air must prevail; and
      4.   Recognize the right of city residents, workers, and visitors to be
free from unwelcome secondhand smoke.
   B.   Findings: The city council hereby finds, determines, and declares that:
      1.   It is estimated that only fifteen percent (15%) of a cigarette's
smoke is inhaled by the smoker, while eighty five percent (85%) is released
into the air for others to breathe;
      2.   Extensive medical and scientific research confirms that tobacco
smoke is harmful to smokers and nonsmokers alike, triggering eye, nose, throat,
and sinus irritation; hastening lung disease, including emphysema; and causing
heart disease and lung cancer;
      3.   In 1992, the United States surgeon general reported that involuntary
smoking by inhaling secondhand smoke (also called "environmental tobacco
smoke") can cause lung cancer in healthy nonsmokers and poses a significant
public health hazard;
      4.   In 2006, the United States surgeon general concluded that a risk
free level of exposure to secondhand smoke does not exist, and neither
separating smokers from nonsmokers nor installing ventilation systems
effectively eliminates secondhand smoke;
      5.   The United States environmental protection agency ("U.S. EPA") has
classified secondhand smoke as a group A carcinogen, the most dangerous class
of carcinogen;
      6.   The United States centers for disease control and prevention ("CDC")
has concluded that secondhand smoke contains approximately seventy (70) cancer
causing chemicals;
      7.   The CDC has concluded that secondhand smoke causes approximately
three thousand (3,000) lung cancer deaths per year among adult nonsmokers in
the United States, and that even brief exposure can damage cells in ways that
set the cancer process in motion;
      8.   The CDC has found that secondhand smoke causes children to suffer
from lower respiratory tract illness, such as bronchitis and pneumonia;
exacerbates childhood asthma; and increases the risk of acute chronic middle
ear infections in children;
      9.   The California environmental protection agency has concluded that
secondhand smoke causes coronary heart disease in nonsmokers;
      10.   The California air resources board has put secondhand smoke in the
same category as the most toxic automotive and industrial air pollutants by
categorizing it as a toxic air contaminant for which no safe level of exposure
exists;
      11.   Secondhand smoke is especially hazardous to particular groups,
including those with chronic health problems, the elderly, and children;
      12.   Inside buildings, tobacco smoke contributes significantly to indoor
air pollution;
      13.   The aesthetic impacts and odors of secondhand smoke pose a nuisance
and annoyance to nonsmokers when in close proximity to people who are smoking;
      14.   Smoking in parks or recreational facilities endangers children and
other users by exposing them to secondhand smoke;
      15.   Within parks and recreational facilities, discarded cigarette and
cigar butts (which do not readily decompose) pose a particularly hazardous risk
to small children who sometimes ingest the butt or who handle it while it is
still hot;
      16.   Discarding a lighted cigarette or cigar butt onto the ground in a
city park or recreational facility not only has the potential to cause a fire,
but also is a major source of litter and pollution, by washing into storm
drains and then ultimately contaminating the ocean;
      17.   In outdoor dining areas; outdoor service areas; outdoor gathering
and event areas; enclosed common areas of multi-unit residential housing
complexes; in proximity to entrances/exits, windows, and vents of buildings
open to the public, smoking endangers the health of nonsmokers who are in the
same area;
      18.   Neither the United States constitution nor the California
constitution gives a person a constitutional right to smoke;
      19.   The consumption of controlled substances in certain enclosed and
unenclosed areas of the city poses a risk to the health, safety, and welfare of
the public, including, but not limited to, in many of the same manners as the
consumption of tobacco products. (Ord. 12-964)
3-2C-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall govern construction of this article unless the
context clearly requires otherwise:
   CITY BUILDING OR STRUCTURE: Any building or structure (as these terms are
defined by the Temple City building code) that the city of Temple City or the
Temple City community redevelopment agency (or successor agency thereto) owns,
controls, operates, occupies, manages, or maintains.
   CITY PARK: A minipark, neighborhood park, community park, regional park,
bikeway, trail, greenbelt, developed or undeveloped park land, open space land,
open space parcel, or open space area that the city or the Temple City
community redevelopment agency (or successor agency thereto) owns, controls,
operates, occupies, manages, or maintains. It shall also include all buildings,
structures, facilities, fields, or equipment within said city park.
   CITY PARKING LOT OR STRUCTURE: A parking lot or structure that the city or
the Temple City community redevelopment agency (or successor agency thereto)
owns, controls, operates, occupies, manages, or maintains.
   CITY RECREATIONAL FACILITY: An indoor or outdoor area, location, place,
site, lot, building, structure, facility, or complex that is open to the
general public for one or more recreational or sport activities or purposes,
regardless of a fee for admission or use, that the city or the Temple City
community redevelopment agency (or successor agency thereto) owns, controls,
operates, occupies, manages, or maintains. It shall also include all buildings,
structures, facilities, fields, or equipment within said city facility.
   CITY VEHICLE: Any vehicle that is owned, leased or rented by the city, as
well as any vehicle that a city employee drives, operates, or has control over
in connection with said person's employment with the city.
   ELECTRONIC SMOKING DEVICE: An electronic or battery operated device that
delivers vapors for inhalation. This term shall include every variation and
type of such devices whether they are manufactured, distributed, marketed or
sold as an electronic pipe, an electronic hookah, or any other product name or
descriptor.
   ENCLOSED AREA: A. Any covered or partially covered area having more than
fifty percent (50%) of its perimeter walled or otherwise closed to the outside
(for example, a covered porch with more than 2 walls) irrespective of whether
said walls or other vertical boundaries include vents or other openings; or
   B.   Any space open to the sky (hereinafter, "uncovered") having more than
seventy five percent (75%) of its perimeter walled or otherwise closed to the
outside (for example, a courtyard), irrespective of whether said walls or other
vertical boundaries include vents or other openings.
      1.   An uncovered space of three thousand (3,000) square feet or more
(for example, a field in an open air arena) is not an "enclosed area" as
defined in this article.
   ENCLOSED COMMON AREA: Any "enclosed area" of a multi-unit residential
housing complex accessible to and usable by residents of more than one unit,
including, but not limited to, hallways, enclosed stairwells, lobby areas,
elevators, laundry rooms, enclosed common cooking areas, playrooms, enclosed
fitness rooms, enclosed swimming pools, and enclosed parking areas.
   LANDLORD: Any person other than a sublessor who owns real property leased as
residential property, who lets residential property, or who manages such
property.
   MARIJUANA: The same definition as set forth in the "California uniform
controlled substances act" 1
.
   MULTI-UNIT RESIDENTIAL HOUSING COMPLEX: A premises that contains two (2) or
more units rented or available to be rented and not occupied by a landlord of
the premises. Multi-unit residence does not include a condominium as that term
is defined in the city's zoning code.
   NONPROFIT ENTITY: Any entity that meets the requirements of California
Corporations Code section 5003 as well as any corporation, unincorporated
association or other entity created for charitable, religious, philanthropic,
educational, political, social or similar purposes, the net proceeds of which
are committed to the promotion of the objectives of the entity and not to
private gain. A public agency is not a nonprofit entity within the meaning of
this definition.
   OUTDOOR DINING AREA: A. An unenclosed area that is open to the general
public, or closed to the public for a private function, where food and/or
beverages are offered, served, or consumed, regardless of whether compensation
is offered or given in exchange;
      1.   Outdoor dining area shall include, but shall not be limited to:
         a.   A restaurant, or a bar, or both;
         b.   A standing area;
         c.   A seating area;
         d.   A patio area.
      2.   Outdoor dining area does not include any unenclosed dining area at a
private residence.
   OUTDOOR PUBLIC EVENT: An activity, ceremony, event, fair, function,
gathering, meeting, pageant, or program - whether athletic, civic, cultural,
charitable, community, entertainment, intellectual, recreational, or social -
that:
   A.   Is open to the general public;
   B.   Takes place outside of an enclosed building or structure; and
   C.   A person, employer, business, nonprofit entity, or the city sponsors,
hosts, organizes, or operates.
   OUTDOOR SEATING AREA: Bleachers, benches, or seats located outside of an
enclosed building or structure - regardless of whether permanently or
temporarily affixed - that is provided for an audience, viewers, spectators, or
participants of an event that is adjacent to, in front of, facing, or opposite
said event.
   PRIVATE ENFORCER: As defined in subsection
3-2C-7B of this article.
   PUBLIC PLACE: Any area, location, place, site, property, lot, building,
structure, facility, or complex - public or private - open to the general
public regardless of any fee or age requirement, including, but not limited to,
streets, sidewalks, plazas, bars, restaurants, clubs, stores, stadiums, polling
places, parks, playgrounds, restrooms, elevators, taxis, and buses.
   PUBLIC TRANSIT STATION OR STOP: An enclosed or unenclosed platform,
sidewalk, shelter, bench, or area where people wait for public transportation,
such as a train, shuttle, or taxicab. It shall also include, but shall not be
limited to, any ancillary area such as restrooms, kiosk area, storage locker
area, and pedestrian path or walkway.
   REASONABLE DISTANCE: A distance of twenty feet (20').
   RECREATIONAL AREA: Any public or private area open to the public for
recreational purposes whether or not any fee for admission is charged,
including, without limitation, parks, gardens, sporting facilities, stadiums,
and playgrounds.
   SERVICE AREA: Any area - public or private - designated for one or more
persons to wait for a transaction, entry, exit, or service of any kind,
regardless of whether such service involves the exchange of money. Service area
includes, but shall not be limited to, any area designated for lines or waiting
for ATM machines; banks; information kiosks; restaurants and other food service
venues; vending machines; tickets or admission to a theater or event; waiting
areas at car washes and vehicle service establishments; and valet pick up
areas.
   SMOKING OR TO SMOKE: Possessing or to possess a lighted tobacco product,
lighted tobacco paraphernalia, lighted marijuana, or any other lighted weed or
plant (including, but not limited to, a lighted pipe, lighted hookah pipe,
lighted cigar, or lighted cigarette of any kind), an electronic smoking device
of any kind, or the lighting or emitting or exhaling the smoke or vapor of a
tobacco product, tobacco paraphernalia, marijuana product, or any other weed or
plant (including, but not limited to, a pipe, a hookah pipe, cigar, marijuana
product, electronic cigarette or cigarette of any kind).
   TOBACCO PRODUCT: Any substance containing tobacco leaf, including, but not
limited to, cigarettes, cigars, pipe tobacco, snuff, chewing tobacco, dipping
tobacco, bidis, or any other preparation of tobacco.
   UNENCLOSED AREA: Any area which is not an enclosed area.
   UNIT:
   A.   A dwelling space consisting of essentially complete independent living
facilities for one or more persons, including, for example, permanent
provisions for living and sleeping, and any associated private outdoor spaces
such as balconies and patios; and
   B.   Senior citizen housing and single room occupancy hotels, as defined in
California Health And Safety Code section 50519(b)(1), even where lacking
private cooking or plumbing facilities. "Unit" does not include lodging in a
hotel or motel that meets the requirements set forth in California Civil Code
section 1940(b)(2). (Ord. 14-994)
 
Notes
1 1. Contained within HSC § 11000 et seq.
3-2C-3:   SMOKING PROHIBITED:
   A.   Smoking is prohibited in the following areas within the city of Temple
City:
      1.   City Property: Except as otherwise provided by this article or by
state or federal law, no person shall smoke or otherwise permit, allow, or
suffer smoking in any city building or structure, city park or recreational
facility, city parking lot or structure, or city vehicle.
      2.   Public Areas: Except as otherwise provided by this article or by
state or federal law, no person shall smoke or otherwise permit, allow, or
suffer smoking within any of the following areas:
         a.   Enclosed public place;
         b.   Service area;
         c.   Outdoor dining area;
         d.   Outdoor public event;
         e.   Outdoor seating area;
         f.   Public transit station or stop.
      3.   Enclosed Common Areas Of Multi-Unit Residential Housing Complex:
Except as otherwise provided by this article or by state or federal law, no
person shall smoke or otherwise permit, allow, or suffer smoking within any
enclosed common area of any multi- unit residential housing complex.
   B.   Nothing in this section shall be deemed to authorize or allow smoking
in any area where smoking is prohibited by state or federal law. (Ord. 12-964)
3-2C-4:   SMOKING PROHIBITED WITHIN REASONABLE DISTANCES:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided by this article or by state or federal
law, no person shall smoke or otherwise permit, allow, or suffer smoking within
twenty feet (20') of the property line of any real property on which a public
or private institution of learning for children (including preschool,
kindergarten, and grades 1 - 12) exists, except when the smoking occurs within
a private residence located adjacent to, or within a twenty foot (20') distance
from said institution.
   B.   Except as otherwise provided by this article or by state or federal
law, no person shall smoke or otherwise permit, allow, or suffer smoking within
twenty feet (20') of any area in which smoking is prohibited under section
3-2C-3 of this article except while actively passing on the way to another
destination and provided smoke does not enter any unenclosed area in which
smoking is prohibited.
   C.   Except as otherwise provided by this article or by state or federal
law, no person shall smoke or otherwise permit, allow, or suffer smoking within
twenty feet (20') of any entrance, window, or air intake vent to an enclosed
area in which smoking is prohibited under section
3-2C-3 of this article except while actively passing on the way to another
destination and provided smoke does not enter any unenclosed area in which
smoking is prohibited.
   D.   Nothing in this section shall be deemed to authorize or allow smoking
in any area where smoking is prohibited by state or federal law. (Ord. 12-964)
3-2C-5:   OTHER REQUIREMENTS AND PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Disposal Of Waste: No person shall dispose of used smoking or tobacco
product within any area in which smoking is prohibited, including within any
reasonable distance required by this article.
   B.   Smoker's Waste Receptacles: Except as otherwise provided by this
article or by state or federal law, no person, employer, or nonprofit entity
shall cause the presence or placement of a smoker's waste receptacle (for
example, ashtrays or ashcans) within any area in which smoking is prohibited by
law, including within any reasonable distances required by this article.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the presence of ash receptacles in violation of
this subsection shall not be a defense to a charge of smoking in violation of
any provisions of this article.
   C.   Signs: "No Smoking" or "Smoke Free" signs, with letters of not less
than one inch (1") in height or the international "No Smoking" symbol
(consisting of a pictorial representation of a burning cigarette enclosed in a
red circle with a red bar across it) or any alternative signage approved by the
city manager shall be conspicuously posted by the person, employer, business,
or nonprofit entity who or which has legal or de facto control of such place at
each entrance to a public place in which smoking is prohibited by this article
has occurred, or is likely to occur. The city manager shall post signs at each
entrance to a public place in which smoking is prohibited by this article that
is owned or controlled by the city. Signage required by this subsection shall
not be subject to title 9, chapter 1, article L, "Signs", of this code.
Notwithstanding the requirements of this section, the presence or absence of
signs shall not be a defense to the violation of any other provision of this
article.
   D.   Required Lease Terms:
      1.   Every lease or other rental agreement for the occupancy of a unit
within a multi-unit residential housing complex entered into, renewed, or
continued month to month on or after July 1, 2013, shall include:
         a.   A clause stating that smoking is prohibited within any enclosed
common area, and a reference to subsection
 3-2C-3A3 of this article;
         b.   A clause stating that it is a material breach of the lease or
agreement to cause, permit, aid, abet, or conceal smoking within any interior
common area of the multi-unit residential housing complex; and
         c.   A clause stating that all lawful occupants of the units in the
multi-unit residential housing complex are third party beneficiaries of the
clauses required by subsections D1a and D1b of this section.
      2.   The lease or agreement terms required by subsection D1 of this
section are incorporated by force of law into any lease or other agreement for
the occupancy of a unit in a multi-unit residential housing complex made on or
after the effective date of this section which lease does not fully comply with
subsection D1 of this section.
   E.   Intimidation: No person shall intimidate, threaten, or effect a
reprisal, or retaliate against another person who seeks to attain compliance
with one or more of this article's provisions.
   F.   Private Regulations: Nothing in this article prohibits any person,
employer, or nonprofit entity with legal control over any property from
prohibiting smoking on any part of such property, even if smoking is not
otherwise prohibited in that area. (Ord. 12-964)
3-2C-6:   PENALTIES AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Any person who causes, permits, aids, abets, suffers, or conceals a
violation of any provision of this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
offense punishable in accordance with title 1, chapter 2 of this code.
   B.   The city council declares that nonconsensual exposure to secondhand
smoke constitutes a public nuisance, and that the uninvited presence of
secondhand smoke on real property is a nuisance and a trespass.
   C.   The remedies provided by this article are cumulative and in addition to
any other remedy available at law or in equity.
   D.   The city prosecutor, city attorney, any peace officer, any city code
enforcement officer, or any other city official designated by the city manager
may enforce this article. (Ord. 12-964)
3-2C-7:   PRIVATE ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   The city attorney or city prosecutor may bring a civil action to
enforce this article and to obtain the remedies specified below or otherwise in
equity or at law.
   B.   Any person acting for the interest of himself, herself, or of its
members, or of the general public (hereinafter, "private enforcer") may bring a
civil action to enforce this article with the remedies specified below, if both
of the following requirements are met:
      1.   The action is commenced more than sixty (60) days after the private
enforcer has given written notice of the alleged violation of this article to
the city attorney and to the alleged violator; and
      2.   No person acting on behalf of the city or the state has commenced or
is prosecuting an action regarding the violation(s) which was or were the
subject of the notice on the date the private action is filed.
   C.   A private enforcer shall provide a copy of his, her, or its action to
the city attorney within seven (7) calendar days of filing it.
   D.   Upon settlement or judgment of any action brought pursuant to
subsection G of this section, the private enforcer shall give the city attorney
a notice of that settlement or judgment and of the final disposition of the
case. No private enforcer may settle such an action, unless the city attorney
or the court determines the settlement to be reasonable in light of the
purposes of this article and any settlement in violation of this requirement
may be set aside upon motion to a court of competent jurisdiction by the city
attorney or city prosecutor.
   E.   Upon proof of a violation of this article, the court shall award the
following:
      1.   Damages in the amount of either:
         a.   Actual damages according to proof;
         b.   Two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for each violation of this
article (hereinafter, "statutory damages") where insufficient or no proof of
actual damages has been proved. Unless otherwise specified in this article,
each day of a continuing violation shall constitute a separate violation.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, no private enforcer suing
on behalf of the general public shall recover statutory damages based upon a
violation of this article if a previous claim brought on behalf of the general
public for statutory damages and based upon the same violation has been
adjudicated, whether or not the private enforcer was a party to that earlier
adjudication.
      2.   Restitution to the appropriate party or parties of the gains
obtained by way of violation of this article.
      3.   Exemplary damages, where it is proven by clear and convincing
evidence that the defendant is guilty of oppression, fraud, malice, or a
conscious disregard for the public health and safety.
      4.   Attorney fees and costs reasonably incurred by a prevailing party.
In any action brought on behalf of the city, attorney fees are not recoverable
by any person as a prevailing party unless the city manager, or a designee
thereof, or an attorney for, and on behalf of, the city, elects in writing to
seek recovery of the city's attorney fees at the initiation of that individual
action or proceeding. Failure to make such an election precludes any
entitlement to, or award of, attorney fees in favor of any person or the city.
         a.   Provided that the city has made an election to seek attorney
fees, an award of attorney fees to a person shall not exceed the amount of
reasonable attorney fees incurred by the city in that action or proceeding.
   F.   Upon proof of at least one violation of this article, a private
enforcer, the city attorney, city prosecutor, any peace officer or code
enforcement official may obtain an injunction against further violations of
this article or as, to small claims court actions, a judgment payable on
condition that a further violation of this article occur within a time
specified by the court.
   G.   Notwithstanding any legal or equitable bar, a private enforcer may
bring an action to enforce this article solely on behalf of the general public.
When a private enforcer does so, nothing about such an action shall act to
preclude or bar the private enforcer from bringing a subsequent action on his,
her, or its own behalf based upon the same facts.
   H.   Nothing in this article shall prohibit a private enforcer from bringing
a civil action in small claims court to enforce this article, as long as the
amount in demand and the relief sought are within the jurisdiction of small
claims court. (Ord. 12-964)
3-2C-8:   SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this
article is declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be unconstitutional
or otherwise invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions of this article. The city council declares that it would
have adopted this article, and each section, subsection, sentence, clause,
phrase or portion thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more
sections, subsections, phrases, or portions be declared invalid or
unconstitutional. (Ord. 12-964)
CHAPTER 3
TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
ARTICLE A. VEHICULAR TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
SECTION:
Part 1. Adoption Of Code
3-3A-0: Adoption
3-3A-1: Definitions
3-3A-2: Traffic Markings
Part 2. Truck Routes
3-3A-10: Designation; Signs
3-3A-11: Vehicles Left On Truck Route
3-3A-12: Truck Route Defined
3-3A-13: Vehicles Prohibited
3-3A-14: Provisions Not Applicable
3-3A-15: Resolution Establishing Route
3-3A-16: Leaving Vehicle On Roadway
3-3A-17: Leaving Disabled Vehicle
Part 3. Parking Restrictions
3-3A-20: Prohibited Parking Period
3-3A-21: Exceptions
3-3A-22: Overnight Parking Permits
3-3A-23: Issuance Of Overnight Parking Permits
3-3A-24: Overnight Parking Permit Fees
3-3A-25: Duties Of Permit Holder
3-3A-26: Replacement Of Permits
3-3A-27: Transfer Of Permits
3-3A-28: Revocation Of Permits
3-3A-29: Hardship
3-3A-30: Back-In Parking On Municipal Parking Lots
3-3A-31: Special Resident And Guest Parking Permitted On Certain Restricted
Streets
3-3A-32: Special Resident Parking Permit Application And Fee
3-3A-33: Designated Disabled Person Vehicle Parking Spaces
3-3A-34: Establishment Of Penalties And Other Related Charges
3-3A-35: Stopping, Parking, Or Standing Vehicles To Load Or Unload Passengers
3-3A-36: Failure To Display Disabled Person's Placard Or Permit While Parked In
A Marked Disabled Person's Parking Space
3-3A-37: Parking Lots For More Than Fifty Vehicles
3-3A-38: Curb Markings
3-3A-38-1: Thirty Minute Parking Zones
3-3A-38-2: One Hour Parking Zone
3-3A-38-3: Two Hour Parking Zone
3-3A-38-4: Request For Curb Markings Or Time Limit Parking Zones
Part 4. Oversized Vehicle Parking Regulations
3-3A-50: Oversized Vehicles
3-3A-50-1: Prohibition On Public Streets
3-3A-50-2: Definitions
3-3A-50-3: Exemptions
3-3A-50-4: Temporary Parking Permits
3-3A-50-5: Posting Of Signs
3-3A-50-6: Permit Restrictions
PART 1. ADOPTION OF CODE
3-3A-0: ADOPTION:
   A.   That certain traffic code entitled "vehicles and traffic" and codified
as title 15 of the Los Angeles County code, enacted and in effect as of
December 1, 1983, three (3) copies of which are on file in the office of the
city clerk, is hereby adopted by reference and shall be known as the traffic
code of the city of Temple City.
   B.   There shall be deleted from said adopted traffic code, the following:
      1.   Chapter 15.84 which is hereby readopted as sections
3-3B-0 and
 3-3B-1 of the Temple City municipal code.
      2.   Chapters 15.88, 15.92, 15.96 and 15.100.
      3.   To the extent that any of the following sections of former county
ordinance 6544 are repeated in title 15, the same are deleted: 2103, 2501,
2502, 3204, 3211, 3211.1, 3212, 3212.1, 3212.2, 3213 and 5006 and chapters VI,
VIII, IX, X and XI. (1960 Code; amd. Ord. 83-545)
3-3A-1: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever any of the following names or terms are used in said title 15 of the
county of Los Angeles code as amended, each such name or term shall be deemed
or construed to have the meanings ascribed to it in this section as follows:
   COMMISSIONER: The city manager of the city of Temple City.
   LOS ANGELES COUNTY HIGHWAY COMMISSION: The Temple City traffic commission.
   SHERIFF'S DEPARTMENT: Is hereby adopted as the city police department and
the county sheriff as the chief of police. (1960 Code)
3-3A-2: TRAFFIC MARKINGS:
All traffic markings, stop signs and traffic signs which are existing in the
city on the date of incorporation thereof, which were erected and placed by the
officers and officials of the county, are hereby declared to be the official
traffic signs and regulations of the city of Temple City, and all matters
pertaining thereto are hereby ratified and confirmed by the city council. (1960
Code)
PART 2. TRUCK ROUTES
3-3A-10: DESIGNATION; SIGNS:
Whenever any resolution of this city designates and describes any street or
portion thereof as a street the use of which is permitted by any vehicle
exceeding a maximum gross weight limit of three (3) tons, the city traffic
engineer is hereby authorized to designate such street or streets by
appropriate signs such as "Truck Routes" or "Weight Limit Streets" for the
movement of vehicles exceeding a maximum gross weight limit of three (3) tons.
(1960 Code)
3-3A-11: VEHICLES LEFT ON TRUCK ROUTE:
No person shall park or leave standing any commercial vehicle upon any street
or portion thereof which is established as a "truck route" for a period of time
exceeding one hour except when necessary for the purpose of making pick ups, or
deliveries of goods, wares and merchandise from or to any building or structure
upon such restricted streets for which a building permit has previously been
obtained therefor and actual loading and unloading operations are in progress.
(1960 Code; amd. Ord. 89-660)
3-3A-12: TRUCK ROUTE DEFINED:
"Truck routes" are defined as those streets and parts of streets established by
resolution of the city council as "truck routes" pursuant to enabling
provisions of section
3-3A-10 of this article. (1960 Code)
3-3A-13: VEHICLES PROHIBITED:
When any such truck route or routes are established and designated by
appropriate signs, the operator of any commercial vehicle exceeding a maximum
gross weight limit of three (3) tons shall drive on such route or routes and
none other except that nothing in this section shall prohibit the operator of
any commercial vehicle exceeding a maximum gross ingress and egress by direct
route to and from restricted streets when necessary for the purpose of making
pick ups or deliveries of goods, wares and merchandise from or to any building
or structure located on such restricted streets or for the purpose of
delivering materials to be used in the actual and bona fide repair, alteration,
remodeling or construction of any building or structure upon such restricted
streets for which a building permit has previously been obtained therefor.
Provided that any such commercial vehicle exceeding a maximum gross weight of
three (3) tons shall not be parked or left standing on any such restricted
street in excess of one hour unless actual loading or unloading operations are
in process. (1960 Code; amd. Ord. 89-660)
3-3A-14: PROVISIONS NOT APPLICABLE:
The provisions of this section shall not apply to:
   A.   Passenger buses under the jurisdiction of the public utilities
commission; or
   B.   Any vehicle owned by a public utility while necessarily in use in the
construction, installation or repair of any public utility. (1960 Code)
3-3A-15: RESOLUTION ESTABLISHING ROUTE:
Those streets and parts of streets established by resolution of the council are
hereby declared to be truck routes for the movement of vehicles exceeding a
maximum gross weight of three (3) tons. (1960 Code)
3-3A-16: LEAVING VEHICLE ON ROADWAY:
No person shall stop, park or leave standing any vehicle, whether attended or
unattended, upon any street when it is practicable to stop, park or leave such
vehicle off such portion of the street, but in every event an unobstructed
width of the street opposite a standing vehicle shall be left for the free
passage of other vehicles and a clear view of the stopped vehicle shall be
available from a distance of two hundred feet (200') in each direction upon the
street. This section shall not apply upon a street where the roadway is bounded
by adjacent curbs. (1960 Code)
3-3A-17: LEAVING DISABLED VEHICLE:
This section shall not apply to the driver of any vehicle which is disabled in
such a manner and to such extent that it is impossible to avoid stopping and
temporarily leaving the disabled vehicle on the roadway. (1960 Code)
PART 3. PARKING RESTRICTIONS
3-3A-20: PROHIBITED PARKING PERIOD:
No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, all forms of cycles and
motorized scooters, and bicycles including similar devices moved exclusively by
human power, on any street or in any city or community redevelopment agency
owned parking lot between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and five o'clock
(5:00) A.M. of any day, except as expressly provided in this part. (Ord. 10-
938)
3-3A-21: EXCEPTIONS:
The parking prohibition set forth in section
3-3A-20 of this article shall not apply to:
   A.   Any street or parking lot for which the city council has adopted a
resolution permitting overnight parking for specified motor vehicles;
   B.   Authorized emergency vehicles;
   C.   Operable motor vehicles that are eligible for and have obtained an
overnight parking permit in accordance with this part and that are properly
displaying such valid overnight parking permit;
   D.   Any vehicle properly displaying a valid disabled placard or disabled
license plate permitted to park overnight under state law. (Ord. 10-935)
3-3A-22: OVERNIGHT PARKING PERMITS:
   A.   Authority To Issue: The public safety officer or his/her designee
(hereinafter referred to as the "issuing officer") is authorized to review
applications for and to issue overnight parking permits as provided in this
part. (Ord. 10-935)
   B.   Criteria: Overnight parking permits provided for under this part may
only be issued for a vehicle with a gross weight rating of under six thousand
(6,000) pounds and not exceeding twenty feet (20') in length. Recreational
vehicles, boats, personal watercraft, trailers, all-terrain vehicles, off
highway motorcycles and inoperable vehicles are not eligible for overnight
parking permits under this part. Even though a motor vehicle may not qualify
for an overnight parking permit under this part, the city may nevertheless
issue an overnight parking permit for a motor vehicle owned by and issued to an
employee of a federal, state, or local governmental agency for their use. The
city may issue an overnight parking permit for a commercial passenger vehicle
that is used by the registered owner for their personal business (i.e., an
individually owned taxicab). The city may also issue an overnight parking
permit for a vehicle (hereinafter a "take home vehicle") assigned to the
applicant as a take home vehicle by the applicant's employer. An overnight
parking permit will only be issued to a commercial passenger vehicle or take
home vehicle provided the motor vehicle meets the weight and length
requirements of this section and parking of the vehicle will not unreasonably
impair parking for other permit holders. (Ord. 10-938)
   C.   Types Of Overnight Parking Permits:
      1.   Annual Permit: An annual permit used in accordance with this part
entitles the permittee to park an assigned vehicle on a specified street
overnight for the duration of the permit. The duration of annual permits is one
full calendar year or a remaining portion of a calendar year. Annual permits
expire at eleven fifty nine o'clock (11:59) P.M. of December 31 of the year for
which such permits were issued, unless sooner revoked as provided in this part.
      2.   Monthly Permit: A monthly parking permit used in accordance with
this part entitles the permittee to park an assigned vehicle on a specified
street overnight for thirty (30) days following the date of permit issuance.
The permit expires at eleven fifty nine o'clock (11:59) P.M. on the thirtieth
day, unless sooner revoked as provided in this part.
      3.   Temporary Permit: A temporary parking permit may be purchased
through a self-service parking permit vending machine located at city hall or
issued by the issuing officer for the fee established by resolution adopted by
the city council. Temporary permits expire at the date and time specified on
the permit.
   D.   Reservation Of Safety And Enforcement Authority: Issuance of a permit
under this part only provides the holder with the privilege of parking on the
assigned street overnight and does not except the holder for the motor vehicle
from the city's enforcement of all other parking, traffic, and safety laws and
requirements of the state of California and the city of Temple City. The city
hereby reserves for itself the right to make, impose and enforce upon holders
of valid overnight parking permits any new traffic, parking, and safety
requirements as the city council may from time to time adopt, or those that the
city is required to impose and enforce under California law. (Ord. 10-935)
3-3A-23: ISSUANCE OF OVERNIGHT PARKING PERMITS:
   A.   Application: The registered owner of an eligible motor vehicle desiring
an overnight parking permit (annual or monthly), or for the transfer of such
permit, shall file a completed application, on the form furnished by the city,
with the public safety officer or his/her designee. Each application shall set
forth the following: (Ord. 10-938)
      1.   For the owner/applicant:
         a.   Owner's full name.
         b.   Copy of owner's valid California driver's license.
         c.   Owner's Temple City residence address.
         d.   Owner's telephone number.
      2.   For the vehicle being permitted and for each other vehicle
registered to the owner at the property:
         a.   The license plate number.
         b.   The vehicle identification number (VIN).
         c.   The year, make, model, color and type of vehicle.
         d.   The gross vehicle weight rating.
         e.   Current California vehicle registration demonstrating that the
vehicle is registered at the owner's residence.
         f.   Proof of California insurance.
      3.   A statement that off street parking at the owner's residence is not
available or obtainable.
      4.   A statement that no off street parking at the owner's residence is
used for any purpose other than parking of operable vehicles.
      5.   If a transfer is requested, the reason for the transfer and the
required information for the vehicle to which the permit is to be transferred
or the residence to which the vehicle will be parked near.
      6.   Whether the application is for an annual or monthly permit.
      7.   Such additional reasonable information as the public safety officer
or his/her designee may require.
      8.   The owner shall sign the application under penalty of perjury
declaring that all facts and statements in the application are true. (Ord. 10-
935)
      9.   If the applicant is requesting an annual overnight parking permit
for a take home vehicle, the applicant will need to provide current vehicle
registration and a letter from his/her employer on the employer's letterhead
indicating that the specific vehicle has been issued to the applicant and that
the applicant is authorized to take the vehicle home at night and park it at
his/her residence. The letter must include the address of the applicant's
residence. (Ord. 10-938)
   B.   Review By Issuing Officer:
      1.   Review And Issuance: Upon the filing of a complete application for
an overnight parking permit or the transfer of such permit, the issuing officer
shall review the application and, within ten (10) business days of the filing,
determine whether to issue the permit or deny the application. The issuing
officer shall issue the requested overnight parking permit unless any one or
more of the following facts is determined:
         a.   The issuing officer determines that the application is not
complete or the information is incorrect or invalid.
         b.   The applicant is not the registered owner.
         c.   The vehicle does not have a valid California registration or
proof of insurance. The issuing officer may issue not to exceed six (6) months
parking permits to a vehicle with valid out of state vehicle registration and
proof of insurance.
         d.   The vehicle is not eligible for an overnight parking permit, as
provided under this part.
         e.   Issuance of the permit would cause the number of overnight
parking permits assigned to the residence to exceed the maximum allowable under
this part.
         f.   An inspection of the on site parking at the residence and on
street parking within the area concludes that on site parking is or should be
available at the residence; or the owner refused permission to grant access to
the property for the purpose of the inspection.
         g.   The owner fails to pay the required overnight parking fee.
         h.   The vehicle has outstanding unpaid parking tickets.
         i.   The vehicles are registered to a site that has undergone an urban
lot split or has an urban dwelling as defined in Section
9-1A-12 of the Temple City Municipal Code).
      2.   Inspection: The issuing officer may require an inspection of the on
site parking at the residence and off street parking within the area to
determine whether the circumstances warrant issuance of an overnight parking
permit. The inspection may include, but is not limited to, any parking stalls,
garages, carports, driveways and other areas designated for vehicle parking.
      3.   Conditional Permit: Where the issuing officer requires an inspection
of the on site parking at a residence, or the issuing officer determines that
verification of information contained in the application is needed, and the
inspection or verification will require more than ten (10) business days to
complete, then provided the application is complete and the owner pays the
required fee, the issuing officer shall issue a conditional permit not to
exceed thirty (30) days in duration. (Ord. 10-935)
      4.   Temporary Conditional Permit: The issuing officer may issue a
temporary conditional permit when:
         a.   The applicant’s permitted vehicle is disabled and is in the shop
for repair, provided that the applicant submits paperwork (i.e., estimate/quote
for repair, work order, etc.) from the repair shop. The temporary conditional
permit shall not exceed thirty (30) days in duration.
         b.   A resident has active building permits for a construction project
which reduces available off street parking at the resident’s property during
the course of construction. The resident may apply for a temporary conditional
permit, so long as the project is proceeding without delay and is receiving the
required scheduled inspections by the building inspector. A temporary
conditional permit may be issued for a period not to exceed thirty (30) days.
      5.   Maximum Number Of Permits: The maximum number of overnight parking
permits issued relating to any residence shall be set by resolution adopted by
the city council.
      6.   Availability Of On Site Parking: The city will deem on site parking
to be available under the following circumstances:
         a.   There is at least one open and available parking space located on
the property, whether in a garage, carport, parking stall or other permitted on
site parking.
         b.   An otherwise open and available parking space is occupied by an
inoperable vehicle, a vehicle without current valid registration, a
recreational vehicle, a trailer, an all-terrain vehicle, an off highway
motorcycle, boat or personal watercraft, or a commercial vehicle.
         c.   An otherwise open and available parking space is used for a
purpose other than parking, for example the storage of furniture, goods,
personal property or other materials.
         d.   An otherwise open and available parking space has been unlawfully
converted to a residential dwelling or other nonpermitted use. (Ord. 10-938;
amd. Ord. 21-1059)
3-3A-24: OVERNIGHT PARKING PERMIT FEES:
   A.   Fee Established: There is hereby established a fee for issuance of an
overnight parking permit by the city for an annual, monthly, temporary and
conditional overnight parking permit, a fee for the transfer of such a permit,
and a fee for the replacement of such a permit. The council shall set, from
time to time, the amount of the fees for annual, monthly, temporary, and
conditional permits and for the transfer and replacement of such permits by
resolution.
   B.   Components Of The Fee: The overnight parking fees established by this
part shall include: 1) the city's administrative cost to administer the
overnight parking permit program, including, but not limited to, review and
process applications, verify information in applications, inspect on site
parking at the residence and off site parking available in the area, review and
process denials, appeals, and revocations, and fuel and maintenance costs for
inspection and enforcement vehicles; 2) the city's administrative cost to
enforce the overnight parking program; and 3) the city's cost to repair and
maintain streets burdened by overnight parking, including, but not limited to,
repair and maintenance of sidewalks, curbs, gutters, and pavement replacement
and resurfacing. The city will, from time to time, commission a fee study to
assess the costs and ensure the fee reflects the actual cost of the service
provided.
   C.   Payment Of Fee: The applying owner shall pay the fee applicable to the
permit applied for at the time the application is filed with the city.
Applications will not be processed without payment of the appropriate fee.
   D.   Proration Of Fee: The issuing officer is hereby authorized to prorate
the fee for annual overnight parking permits for each quarter of the calendar
year (January 1 through December 31) that shall have elapsed at the issuance of
the permit, based on a schedule adopted by resolution of the city council.
   E.   Refund Of Fee: The issuing officer is hereby authorized to refund a
portion of the fee paid by an applicant in the event the issuing officer denies
the permit. Only that portion of the fee attributable to enforcement and repair
and maintenance shall be refunded. No portion of the fee shall be refunded in
the event that the permit is lost, stolen, transferred, or revoked. (Ord. 10-
935)
3-3A-25: DUTIES OF PERMIT HOLDER:
   A.   Display Of Permits: The permit holder shall at all times display the
overnight parking permit, as required under this section:
      1.   Annual Permits: All annual overnight parking permits shall be
visibly placed on the outside of the rear (back) window in the lower left hand
corner (driver's side) or on the left hand side of the rear bumper, and the
permit shall not be effective unless so placed. (Ord. 10-938)
      2.   Monthly Permits/Conditional Permits: All monthly and/or conditional
overnight parking permits shall be visibly placed face up on the driver's side
dashboard area of the vehicle, and the permit shall not be effective unless so
placed.
      3.   Temporary Permits: All temporary overnight parking permits shall be
visibly placed face up on the driver's side dashboard area of the vehicle, and
the permit shall not be effective unless so placed. Temporary overnight parking
permits are not effective unless the vehicle license number or vehicle
identification number (VIN) is clearly displayed, in ink, on the permit.
   B.   Compliance With Laws: The permit holder shall at all times comply with
all state and city of Temple City traffic, parking, and safety laws. Conviction
or pleading guilty to a parking ticket or citation for a moving violation is
grounds for revocation of the overnight parking permit.
   C.   Change Of Address: The permit holder shall inform the city of any
change in his/her residence address. The overnight parking permit will not be
valid for a new address, unless the owner applies for a transfer of the permit
and the issuing officer approves the transfer, as provided in this part. (Ord.
10-935)
3-3A-26: REPLACEMENT OF PERMITS:
If a permit holder loses, surrenders, or destroys an unexpired overnight
parking permit, he/she may file an application, on a form furnished by the
city, requesting a replacement permit. The issuing officer shall review the
application and issue or deny a replacement permit as provided in section
3-3A-23 of this article. (Ord. 10-935)
3-3A-27: TRANSFER OF PERMITS:
Holders of annual or monthly overnight parking permits may apply to the city
for transfer of that permit to another vehicle or, in the event the permit
holder is moving to a residence within the city, to have the permit reassigned
to a new parking area. The permit holder shall file an application, on a form
furnished by the city. The issuing officer shall review the application and
issue or deny a permit transfer as provided in section
3-3A-23 of this article. Transfer shall not extend the expiration date of the
permit. Upon transfer of the permit, the previous permit shall be of no further
force and effect and the applicant shall be required to surrender the original
permit or submit satisfactory evidence that the former permit has been
destroyed or will no longer be used. (Ord. 10-935)
3-3A-28: REVOCATION OF PERMITS:
   A.   Permits Subject To Revocation: Overnight parking permits issued under
this section are subject to revocation where the permit holder violates any of
the duties of the permit holder established under section
3-3A-25 of this article, a material misstatement of fact is discovered in the
permit holder's application, the permit holder sells, transfers or attempts to
sell or transfer the permit to another person or vehicle without complying with
this part, or the permit holder otherwise improperly uses the permit or
violates the requirements of this part.
   B.   Revocation Procedure: The issuing officer is hereby authorized to
revoke overnight parking permits on the grounds stated in this section. Before
revoking a permit, the issuing officer shall provide written notice to the
permit holder, at the address on file for the permit holder, at least ten (10)
days prior to the holding of an administrative hearing before the issuing
officer. The notice shall state the reason for the revocation and state that
the permit holder shall be afforded an opportunity to appear at the hearing and
present evidence as to why the permit should not be revoked. The issuing
officer shall make a decision within three (3) business days of the hearing and
provide the permit holder with written notice of same. If the permit is
revoked, such revocation shall become effective three (3) business days after
the issuing officer mails the written determination to the permit holder. (Ord.
10-935)
   C.   Appeal: A permit holder may appeal a decision of the issuing officer to
the city's transportation and public safety commission. An appeal before this
body shall conform to such general appeal provisions as apply to this part.
(Ord. 10-935; amd. Ord. 13-986)
3-3A-29: HARDSHIP:
If an applicant does not meet the criteria for an annual overnight parking
permit or is requesting an exemption from the criteria, the applicant may file
with the issuing officer a hardship request on the form provided by the city.
The issuing officer will review the request for completeness within the times
provided for such review in this part. When the request is complete the issuing
officer will submit the request for review and consideration by the
transportation and public safety commission. The transportation and public
safety commission will render a decision to approve or deny the hardship
request within thirty (30) days of the issuing officer's submittal. (Ord. 10-
938; amd. Ord. 13-986)
3-3A-30: BACK-IN PARKING ON MUNICIPAL PARKING LOTS:
The city council, following a recommendation by the transportation and public
safety commission, shall have the authority to prohibit back-in parking on
municipally owned or operated parking lots where deemed appropriate or
necessary for the preservation of the public health, safety, or welfare. In
such cases, appropriate signs shall be posted that prohibit the standing or
parking of a vehicle on the municipally owned or operated parking lot in such
manner that such vehicle is backed into a marked stall. There shall be exempted
from the restrictions of this section, all trucks in excess of three (3) tons'
gross weight while loading or unloading. (Ord. 15-1002)
3-3A-31: SPECIAL RESIDENT AND GUEST PARKING PERMITTED ON CERTAIN RESTRICTED
STREETS:
No person shall leave standing any motorized vehicle upon any street in the
city of Temple City which has been previously determined by city council
resolution and posted: a) to be within a restricted parking zone, or b) upon
any street determined by the city council to require the issuance of a "special
resident parking permit", a "special guest permit", or their functional
equivalent without compliance with the terms and conditions of said "restricted
parking zone" as contained in the city council resolution establishing same.
(Ord. 91-693; amd. Ord. 03-891)
3-3A-32: SPECIAL RESIDENT PARKING PERMIT APPLICATION AND FEE:
Each residence in the area of restricted parking may apply for and be granted
such preferential parking permits as set forth by city council resolution. The
amount of the fee for such permit shall be set by city council resolution and
may be adjusted from time to time. (Ord. 91-693; amd. Ord. 03-891)
3-3A-33: DESIGNATED DISABLED PERSON VEHICLE PARKING SPACES:
The city council may approve and order the installation of appropriate markings
and signs to designate special on street vehicle parking spaces on any city
street, including residential and commercial areas for use by disabled persons
possessing valid disabled persons or disabled veteran license plates or
disabled person windshield placards. Such designated spaces are to be made
available to any physically disabled driver or vehicle passenger and shall not
be for the exclusive use of any one individual. (Ord. 93-743)
3-3A-34: ESTABLISHMENT OF PENALTIES AND OTHER RELATED CHARGES:
Penalties for vehicle parking violations, late payment penalties,
administrative fees and other related charges shall be set and/or modified by
resolution of the city council. (Ord. 94-766)
3-3A-35: STOPPING, PARKING, OR STANDING VEHICLES TO LOAD OR UNLOAD PASSENGERS:
   A.   It is unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to stop, park, or leave
standing such vehicle, for the purpose of loading or unloading passengers,
unless the vehicle is legally parked in accordance with all applicable laws,
rules and regulations, including related signs and curb markings.
   B.   Any person who violates this section is guilty of an infraction and is
subject to the enforcement provisions pursuant to section
1-2-0-1 of this code. (Ord. 99-839)
3-3A-36: FAILURE TO DISPLAY DISABLED PERSON'S PLACARD OR PERMIT WHILE PARKED IN
A MARKED DISABLED PERSON'S PARKING SPACE:
   A.   Any person who fails to display a lawfully issued disabled person's
placard or permit in their possession thereby causing the issuance of a
citation for the unlawful parking of a vehicle in a designated disabled person
parking space is in violation of the Temple City traffic code.
   B.   Any person who violates this section is guilty of an infraction. Upon
presentation of proof that a valid placard or permit was in possession at the
time of issuance of the citation and the privileges of the placard or permit
were not abused, the fine will be reduced to an administrative fee as set forth
by city council resolution. (Ord. 00-843)
3-3A-37: PARKING LOTS FOR MORE THAN FIFTY VEHICLES:
   A.   Findings: The city council finds that these regulations are necessary
and in the public interest to assure the safety of large parking areas, to
provide to the users necessary safety regulations in the public interest, and
to provide the exclusive use of such parking areas for the use of the customers
of the adjoining businesses.
   B.   Regulations: The following regulations shall apply to any public or
private parking lot containing more than fifty (50) slots or stalls for the
parking of private vehicles (whether such parking area is owned by 1 entity or
exists as reciprocal facilities owned by more than 1 entity):
      1.   All areas of such facilities shall be surfaced with concrete or
asphalt, and such surfacing shall be kept and maintained in good condition
without potholes or other deterioration. With the consent of the city,
specified areas may be improved with plantings.
      2.   The parking slots shall be clearly marked and maintained with at
least an eight foot (8') wide slot, and be provided with stop bumpers.
      3.   All vehicles shall be parked within designated slots with front-in
parking only.
      4.   All traffic lanes shall be clearly marked as one-way, and no
vehicles shall enter or exit contrary to such markings.
      5.   The parking areas shall be sufficiently lighted for safety reasons
for after dark usage.
      6.   There shall be a fifteen (15) miles per hour speed limit in all such
facilities.
      7.   No recreation vehicles, trailers, motor homes or vehicles in excess
of eight thousand (8,000) pounds shall be allowed to park in such facilities.
      8.   Vehicles parked for loading and unloading are exempt from these
requirements provided the same do not exceed three (3) hours in duration.
      9.   There shall be a two (2) hour parking limit in any stall or slot.
      10.   Signs shall be posted on each property indicating these
regulations.
   C.   Exemptions: There shall be exempted from these regulations any parking
area that contains fifty (50) or more parking slots that abuts or serves a
noncommercial, residential, park or school area. There shall also be exempted
any area of commercial lots that the council permits to be set aside for
employee parking.
   D.   Violation: Anyone violating any of the above regulations shall upon the
first offense be guilty of an "infraction"; upon any subsequent violation shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 06-915)
3-3A-38: CURB MARKINGS:
   A.   Subject to the provisions and limitations of this chapter, the public
safety officer shall place the following curb markings when directed by the
city council, or its designated commission, and the curb markings shall have
the meanings as herein set forth:
      1.   Red means no stopping, standing, or parking at any time except as
permitted by the California Vehicle Code, and except that a bus may stop in a
red zone marked or signed as a bus zone.
      2.   Yellow means no stopping, standing, or parking for any purpose other
than loading or unloading of passengers or materials, provided that the loading
or unloading of passengers shall not consume more than three (3) minutes nor
the loading or unloading of materials more than twenty (20) minutes.
      3.   White means no stopping, standing, or parking for any purpose other
than loading or unloading of passengers which shall not exceed three (3)
minutes.
      4.   Green means no standing or parking for a period longer than twenty
(20) minutes.
      5.   Blue means no stopping, standing, or parking at any time except
vehicles which display a distinguishing license plate or valid placard issued
to disabled persons and disabled veterans pursuant to the California Vehicle
Code.
   B.   Installation of curb markings shall be approved by resolution of the
city council, or its designated commission.
   C.   When the public safety officer, as authorized under this title, has
caused curb markings to be placed, no person shall stop, stand, or park a
vehicle adjacent to any such legible curb marking except as allowed in
subsection A of this section. (Ord. 11-939U)
3-3A-38-1:   THIRTY MINUTE PARKING ZONES:
No person shall stand or park any vehicle between the hours of seven o'clock
(7:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M. of any day except Sunday for a period
longer than thirty (30) minutes in any place where the city council, or its
designated commission, has determined, by resolution, that a thirty (30) minute
parking restriction is necessary. Signs shall be posted giving notice of this
parking restriction. (Ord. 11-939U)
3-3A-38-2:   ONE HOUR PARKING ZONE:
No person shall stand or park any vehicle between the hours of seven o'clock
(7:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M. of any day except Sunday for a period
longer than one hour in any place where the city council, or its designated
commission, has determined, by resolution, that a one hour parking restriction
is necessary. Signs shall be posted giving notice of this parking restriction.
(Ord. 11-939U)
3-3A-38-3:   TWO HOUR PARKING ZONE:
No person shall stand or park any vehicle between the hours of seven o'clock
(7:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M. of any day except Sunday for a period
longer than two (2) hours in any place where the city council, or its
designated commission, has determined, by resolution, that a two (2) hour
parking restriction is necessary. Signs shall be posted giving notice of this
parking restriction. (Ord. 11-939U)
3-3A-38-4:   REQUEST FOR CURB MARKINGS OR TIME LIMIT PARKING ZONES:
A request for curb markings or time limit parking shall be filed with the city
council, or its designated commission. The city council, or its designated
commission, shall approve or deny any such request by resolution. A decision on
a request for curb markings or time limit parking that is made by a commission
designated to hear such requests by the city council may be appealed by any
interested person to the city council. An appeal must be filed with the city
clerk within fifteen (15) calendar days from the date the commission adopts the
resolution of approval or denial. (Ord. 11-939U)
PART 4. OVERSIZED VEHICLE PARKING REGULATIONS
3-3A-50: OVERSIZED VEHICLES:
3-3A-50-1:   PROHIBITION ON PUBLIC STREETS:
No person shall park, or leave standing on any public street, alley or right of
way in the city any oversized vehicle without displaying a valid oversized
vehicle temporary parking permit. (Ord. 06-910)
3-3A-50-2:   DEFINITIONS:
   OVERSIZED VEHICLE: Any vehicle, whether motorized or nonmotorized, that
exceeds twenty feet (20') in length, or eighty inches (80") in width or seventy
eight inches (78") in height or that weighs more than six thousand (6,000)
pounds (gross vehicle weight). Any extension caused by any mirror or any
accessory attached to such vehicle shall be considered part of the measured
distance.
Notwithstanding the length, width, and height requirements for an oversized
vehicle, the following vehicles shall also be considered oversized vehicles
subject to the prohibitions contained in section
3-3A-50-1 of this article:
   A.   Buses as defined in the California Vehicle Code;
   B.   Trailers, including boat trailers, and semitrailers, as these are
defined in the California Vehicle Code, and stand alone boats not connected to
trailers;
   C.   Trailer coaches as defined in the California Vehicle Code; and
   D.   Recreational vehicles as defined in this article.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A motor home, slide-in camper, travel trailer, truck
camper, or camping trailer, with or without motive power, designed for human
habitation for recreational or emergency occupancy. Recreational vehicle shall
also include:
Camping Trailer: A vehicular portable unit mounted on wheels and constructed
with collapsible partial side walls which fold for towing by another vehicle
and unfold at the campsite and designed for human habitation for recreational
or emergency occupancy;
Motor Home: A vehicular unit built on or permanently attached to a self-
propelled motor vehicle chassis, chassis cab or van, which becomes an integral
part of the completed vehicle, designed for human habitation for recreational
or emergency occupancy;
Slide-In Camper: A portable unit, consisting of a roof, floor and sides,
designed to be loaded onto and unloaded from the bed of a pickup truck, and
designed for human habitation for recreational or emergency occupancy and shall
include a truck camper;
Travel Trailer: A portable unit, mounted on wheels, of such a size and weight
as not to require special highway movement permits when drawn by a motor
vehicle and for human habitation for recreational or emergency occupancy. (Ord.
06-910)
3-3A-50-3:   EXEMPTIONS:
The provisions of section
3-3A-50-1 of this article shall not apply to any of the following:
   A.   Oversized vehicles making pick ups or deliveries of goods, wares,
services or merchandise to or from any building or structure immediately
adjacent to the property on which such building or structure is situated.
   B.   Any ambulance, paramedic or public safety vehicle involved in
responding to an emergency.
   C.   Any vehicle being repaired under emergency conditions for less than
eight (8) hours. For purposes of this section "emergency repairs" shall mean
sudden and unexpected repairs occurring during transport of the vehicle.
   D.   Any vehicle belonging to federal, state or local authorities while
conducting official government business.
   E.   Any vehicle displaying a valid permit issued pursuant to sections
3-3A-50-4 and
3-3A-50-6 of this article. (Ord. 06-910)
3-3A-50-4:   TEMPORARY PARKING PERMITS:
The city manager, or his designee, shall issue a temporary parking permit to
any resident of the city, for parking of an oversized vehicle that belongs to
that resident, or a guest of the household in which such resident resides,
provided the following conditions are met:
   A.   The permit is obtained by a resident of the property in front of which
the oversized vehicle will be parked in accordance with this article.
   B.   The oversized vehicle is parked on the street immediately adjacent to
the property upon which the person requesting the permit resides.
   C.   The duration of the permit shall not exceed forty eight (48) hours.
   D.   At the discretion of the city manager, or his designee, a permit may be
issued for a period not to exceed seventy two (72) hours to accommodate
houseguests.
   E.   No more than four (4) permits shall be issued for any specific
oversized vehicle within any given calendar month. Permits may not be issued
for consecutive periods, and there must be a minimum of forty eight (48)
consecutive hours between the issuance of permits for a specific property or a
specific oversized vehicle.
   F.   The oversized vehicle shall not be used for overnight camping, lodging,
residing in, or any use for accommodation purposes.
   G.   The oversized vehicle shall not visibly block or obscure any existing
safety or traffic control device, nor shall it be parked in such position that
another's driveway approach is jeopardized, and it shall otherwise meet all
other parking requirements for the street upon which it is parked.
   H.   The oversized vehicle is not licensed, registered or used for
commercial purposes.
   I.   The city manager, or designee, determines that the parking of the
oversized vehicle would not create a public safety hazard. Such a determination
may be made based on factors, including, without limitation, the size of the
oversized vehicle, the configuration of the street or the location of any
nearby driveways, trees, improvements or structures. (Ord. 06-910)
3-3A-50-5:   POSTING OF SIGNS:
Signs giving adequate notice of the prohibitions contained in section
3-3A-50-1 of this article shall be placed at the city limits, as well as at
other appropriate locations as determined by the traffic engineer to be
consistent with applicable law. (Ord. 06-910)
3-3A-50-6:   PERMIT RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to whom a permit is issued pursuant
to section
3-3A-50-4 of this article to transfer, sell, rent or lease such permit or allow
such permit to be used by any person other than a guest of that person, either
with or without consideration.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to borrow, buy or otherwise acquire
for value or use or display any parking permit, except as provided for in
section
3-3A-50-4 of this article.
   C.   Each permit issued pursuant to section
3-3A-50-4 of this article shall be subject to all of the conditions and
restrictions set forth in section
3-3A-50-4 of this article. The issuance of such permit shall not be construed
to be a permit for or approval of any violation of any provision of this code
or any other law or regulation.
   D.   The issuance of a permit pursuant to section
3-3A-50-4 of this article shall not be construed or interpreted as a warranty
or representation by the city or its officials, officers or employees that the
parking of any oversized vehicle is or is not in compliance with any other
provision of law. Neither the enactment of this part nor the preparation or
delivery of any permit pursuant thereto shall impose any mandatory duty upon
the city, its officials, officers or employees to completely and accurately
determine the safety of the parking of any oversized vehicle or impose any
liability on the city, its officials, officers or employees regarding the same.
   E.   The city council may establish a reasonable permit fee by separate
resolution to recover the city administrative costs in preparing and issuing
permits. (Ord. 06-910)
ARTICLE B. BICYCLE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
Part 1. Registration And Licensing
3-3B-0: Adoption Of Code
3-3B-1: Copies On File
Part 2. Restrictions On Use
3-3B-10: Definition
3-3B-11: Parking Bicycles
3-3B-12: Designated Bicycle Parking Areas
3-3B-13: Unlawful Bicycle Parking; Fine
3-3B-14: Riding On Sidewalks
PART 1. REGISTRATION AND LICENSING
3-3B-0: ADOPTION OF CODE:
Except as hereinafter provided, that certain bicycle licensing ordinance known
and designated as ordinance 3027 of the county of Los Angeles, including all
amendments and supplements enacted and in effect on or before December 31,
1974, shall be and is hereby adopted. (1960 Code, as amended)
3-3B-1: COPIES ON FILE:
Three (3) copies of said ordinance 3027 have been deposited with the city
clerk, and shall be at all times maintained by said for use of and examination
by the public. (1960 Code, as amended)
PART 2. RESTRICTIONS ON USE
3-3B-10: DEFINITION:
"Block", as used in this article, means property facing one side of any street
between the next intersecting streets or between the terminus of a dedicated
right of way of a street and an intersecting street. (1960 Code, as amended)
3-3B-11: PARKING BICYCLES:
All bicycles shall be parked in the street area where automobiles are lawfully
entitled to park except upon such streets and in such areas as the city council
shall determine otherwise by resolution. (1960 Code, as amended)
3-3B-12: DESIGNATED BICYCLE PARKING AREAS:
The city council may by resolution designate certain blocks or portions of
blocks as areas in which bicycles shall be parked only in certain bicycle
parking racks provided by the city either within the roadway right of way or
city sidewalk. Said blocks shall be posted with signs by the city manager
reading, "No Bicycle Parking Except In City Racks", and the bicycle racks shall
have a sign permanently posted on or in the immediate area reading:
CITY BICYCLE RACK - BICYCLES MUST BE PARKED IN THESE RACKS IN THIS BLOCK - NO
OTHER PARKING PERMITTED.
(1960 Code, as amended)
3-3B-13: UNLAWFUL BICYCLE PARKING; FINE:
Any bicycle unlawfully parked shall be removed by any police officer of the
city of Temple City and impounded. No bicycle shall be released until the sum
of one dollar ($1.00) shall have been paid to the city clerk. For each
additional offense there shall be charged one dollar ($1.00) over the previous
fine paid. In the event a bicycle is not claimed and the fine paid within six
(6) weeks of impounding, the bicycle shall be sold by the city for the highest
bid after one advertisement in the "Temple City Times" reading:
A bicycle (or bicycles) shall be sold by the City of Temple City to the highest
bidder on (date), at ten o'clock A.M.
All money received shall become the property of the city of Temple City and be
deposited in the general fund. (1960 Code, as amended)
3-3B-14: RIDING ON SIDEWALKS:
No person shall ride a bicycle on any city sidewalk, pursuant to section 1401
of ordinance 6544 of the county of Los Angeles. The placing by walking,
carrying or lifting of a bicycle into a bicycle rack provided by the city shall
not be deemed operating a bicycle on a public sidewalk so long as same is done
within a reasonable distance of a city bicycle rack. (1960 Code, as amended)
ARTICLE C. WHEELED TOY REGULATIONS
SECTION:
3-3C-0: Definitions
3-3C-1: Riding Of Wheeled Toys
3-3C-2: Parking Of Wheeled Toys
3-3C-3: Penalty
3-3C-0: DEFINITIONS:
   BICYCLE: That defined by the vehicle code of the state of California.
   WHEELED TOYS: Includes all other wheeled conveyances, regardless of motive
power, not classified as bicycles in this code nor as vehicle in the vehicle
code of the state, and specifically shall include, but without limitation,
roller skates, skateboards, coasters, scooters and toy vehicles.
Exception is made for baby carriages, wheelchairs and any vehicle in the
service of the city. (1960 Code; amd. Ord. 88-628)
3-3C-1: RIDING OF WHEELED TOYS:
No person shall ride a bicycle or other wheeled toy in any public park or
parking lot, or on any city sidewalk within a commercial area of the city, or
operate, or use it on public property within the city, except for official
public safety officers or personnel. (1960 Code; amd. Ord. 96-798)
3-3C-2: PARKING OF WHEELED TOYS:
No person shall park or leave standing unattended any wheeled toy upon a public
sidewalk. (1960 Code)
3-3C-3: PENALTY:
Any person violating the provision of these regulations shall be guilty of an
infraction. Confiscation of the wheeled toy shall be at the discretion of the
police officer. (1960 Code)
CHAPTER 4
STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
ARTICLE A. OBSTRUCTIONS
SECTION:
3-4A-0: Definitions
3-4A-1: Depositing Debris
3-4A-2: Duty Of Property Owner
3-4A-3: Bushes Or Trees Causing Obstruction
3-4A-4: Vegetation Not To Obstruct Sidewalks
3-4A-5: Property Owner Depositing Debris
3-4A-6: Barbed Wire Fences Prohibited
3-4A-7: Goods On Sidewalks
3-4A-8: Drainage Of Water On Sidewalks, Streets Or Alleys
3-4A-9: Deposit Of Tacks, Etc., Unlawful
3-4A-10: Cutting Or Defacing Sidewalks, Etc., Unlawful
3-4A-11: Obstructions Deemed Nuisances
3-4A-12: Signs On Street
3-4A-13: Street Solicitations
3-4A-14: Aggressive Panhandling
3-4A-15: Solicitation From Vehicles
3-4A-0: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall be defined as set forth
herein:
   BENCH: A seat located upon public property along any public way for the
accommodation of passerby or persons awaiting transportation.
   BUSINESS: Means and includes any type of product, goods, service,
performance or activity which is provided or performed, or offered to be
provided or performed, in exchange for money, labor, goods or any other form of
consideration.
   EMPLOYMENT: Means and includes services, industry or labor performed by a
person for wages or other compensation or under any contract of hire, written,
oral, express or implied.
   SIDEWALK: The space between the curb line of the street and the inside
property line, whether covered with a cement walk or not.
   SOLICIT: Means and includes any request, offer, enticement or action which
announces the availability for or of employment, the sale of goods, or a
request for money or other property or any request, offer, enticement or action
which seeks to purchase or secure goods or employment, or to make a
contribution of money or other property. As defined herein, a solicitation
shall be deemed complete when made, whether or not an actual employment
relationship is created, a transaction is completed, or an exchange of money or
other property takes place.
   STREETS: Any public thoroughfare or way including the sidewalk, the parkway
and any other public property bordering upon a public way. (1960 Code; amd.
Ord. 94-764)
3-4A-1: DEPOSITING DEBRIS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit or cause or permit to be
deposited in or upon any public street, alley, sidewalk or other public place
any filthy water, rubbish, sweepings from any store or house, contents of a
cuspidor, any putrid substance of any kind, tacks, nails or broken glassware.
(1960 Code)
3-4A-2: DUTY OF PROPERTY OWNER:
It shall be unlawful for any person to fail, refuse or neglect to keep the
sidewalk in front of his own house, place of business or premises in a clean
and wholesome condition. (1960 Code)
3-4A-3: BUSHES OR TREES CAUSING OBSTRUCTION:
It shall be unlawful for any person having charge or control of any lot or
premises in the city, whether as owner, lessee, tenant, occupant, or otherwise
to allow any limbs, twigs or leaves of any bush, or tree growing in or upon the
sidewalk or any public street or alley in front of such lot or premises or upon
any premises abutting upon such sidewalk to interfere with or obstruct the free
passage of pedestrians along such sidewalk, public street or alley. Whenever
any bush, or tree growing in or upon any premises in such a manner that any
portion thereof shall ever hang over any sidewalk, public street or alley, or
growing in or upon any such sidewalk is greater than fifteen feet (15') in
height, the lower limbs, twigs and leaves of such bush or tree shall be kept
removed at all times, so that at no time shall any portion of street or alley,
and whenever any such limbs, twigs or leaves of such bush or tree shall be kept
at all times so that the same are not interfering with or obstructing the free
passage of pedestrians or vehicles along such sidewalk, street or alley. (1960
Code)
3-4A-4: VEGETATION NOT TO OBSTRUCT SIDEWALKS:
It shall be unlawful for any person having charge or control of any lot or
premises whether as owner, lessee, tenant, occupant or otherwise, to allow any
vegetation to grow or exist along or upon the sidewalk or public street in
front of such premises in such manner as to interfere with or obstruct the free
passage of pedestrians along such sidewalk, street or alley. (1960 Code)
3-4A-5: PROPERTY OWNER DEPOSITING DEBRIS:
It shall be unlawful for any person having charge or control of any lot or
premises in the city, either as owner, lessee, tenant, occupant or otherwise to
allow any soil, trash, rubbish, garden refuse, tree trimmings, ashes, tin cans
or other waste or refuse to remain upon or in any public street or alley or
upon any sidewalk abutting on such lot or premises, or to interfere with or
obstruct the free alleys or streets. (1960 Code)
3-4A-6: BARBED WIRE FENCES PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person having charge or control of any lot or
premises, either as owner, lessee, tenant, occupant or otherwise, to erect or
maintain or permit to be erected or maintained any barbed wire fence along any
sidewalk or along any property line abutting on any sidewalk nearer than seven
feet (7') above such sidewalk. (1960 Code)
3-4A-7: GOODS ON SIDEWALKS:
It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to place or cause to be placed
anywhere upon any public street, way or sidewalk, or for any person owning,
operating or having control of any premises, to suffer to remain in front
thereof upon the sidewalk or portion of the street, alley or way next to such
premises, any boxes, bales, barrels, goods, wares, merchandise, wood, lumber or
any other thing obstructing the free use or passage of such street, way or
sidewalk, provided that any person may display goods, wares and merchandise on
the portion of the sidewalk within one and one-half feet (11/2') from the
property line, and also provided, that goods, wares and merchandise actually in
transit may be allowed on the outer one-third (1/3) of the width of any
sidewalk, between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. and eight o'clock (8:
00) A.M. of the next day. (1960 Code)
3-4A-8: DRAINAGE OF WATER ON SIDEWALKS, STREETS OR ALLEYS:
It shall be unlawful for any person having control of any lot or premises
whether as owner, lessee, tenant or occupant or otherwise, or any agent or any
employee of any such person, to cause or to permit any water to run or drain
across or onto or upon or to stand on any sidewalk, street, or alley abutting
on such lot or premises, except such water as is actually and necessarily used
in washing or cleaning such sidewalk or street, and except for a reasonable
amount of water which may be occasioned by sprinkling of lawns or shrubbery.
The draining of swimming pool water is expressly prohibited by this section,
except where specific written permission has been granted by the city manager
of the city of Temple City. (1960 Code)
3-4A-9: DEPOSIT OF TACKS, ETC., UNLAWFUL:
It shall be unlawful for any person to throw or deposit tacks, broken glassware
or nails, upon the sidewalks, street, avenues, alleys or other public places in
the city. (1960 Code)
3-4A-10: CUTTING OR DEFACING SIDEWALKS, ETC., UNLAWFUL:
It shall be unlawful for any person to cut, carve, hack, hew or otherwise
deface any sidewalk, curb, gutter or pavement on any public street in the city.
(1960 Code)
3-4A-11: OBSTRUCTIONS DEEMED NUISANCES:
Any obstruction in or upon any street, alley, sidewalk or other public place or
maintained thereon shall be deemed to be a public nuisance and be treated as
such. (1960 Code)
3-4A-12: SIGNS ON STREET:
It shall be unlawful to place any sign or signs upon any sidewalk, including,
but not limited to, signs placed on chairs, stands, boxes or racks which are
movable. The city shall cause to be removed forthwith any sign placed upon any
city sidewalk not placed pursuant to proper resolution or ordinance of the
city, and any sign or signs so removed shall be retained by the city for a
period of five (5) days, in which time the owner thereof may have same
returned. In the event the owner of any moved signs shall fail to claim same
within the said five (5) day period the city shall dispose of such sign or
signs as it shall deem fit. In the event the owner of any sign or signs shall
place same a second time upon any city sidewalk, the city shall dispose of same
as it shall deem fit. (1960 Code)
3-4A-13: STREET SOLICITATIONS:
This section regulates the activity of soliciting employment, business or
contributions by occupants of moving vehicles from persons standing on public
streets and sidewalks, as well as persons standing in the public streets and
sidewalks soliciting occupants of moving vehicles. (Ord. 94-764)
3-4A-14: AGGRESSIVE PANHANDLING:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in any aggressive
panhandling on any public property, including any city park, city building, and
public street, highway, sidewalk, or public right-of-way.
   B.   This section does not apply to charitable or religious solicitations
that is not aggressive, as defined in this section and covered by
Chapter 4-6.
   C.   This section does not apply to protected speech activities or other
activity protected by law.
   D.   "Aggressive panhandling" means any of the following:
      1.   Approaching or speaking to a person, or following a person before,
during or after soliciting, if that conduct is likely to cause a reasonable
person to:
         a.   Fear bodily harm to oneself or to another, damage to or loss of
property, or
         b.   Otherwise be intimidated into giving money, goods, or other
things of value;
      2.   Intentionally touching or causing physical contact with another
person or an occupied vehicle without that person's consent in the course of
soliciting, asking or begging;
      3.   Intentionally blocking or interfering with the safe or free passage
of a pedestrian or vehicle by any means, including unreasonably causing a
pedestrian or vehicle operator to take evasive action to avoid physical contact
in the course of soliciting, asking or begging;
      4.   Using violent or threatening gestures toward a person before, during
or after soliciting; or
      5.   Persisting in closely following or approaching a person, after the
person solicited has been solicited and informed the solicitor by words or
conduct that such person does not want to be solicited or does not want to give
money or any other thing of value to the panhandler.
   E.   Definitions. "Panhandling" means to ask for or solicit money, property,
or other favor, regardless of value.
   F.   Each and every violation of this Section, shall constitute a separate
violation, a public nuisance, and shall be subject to all remedies and
enforcement measures authorized by this Code.
(Ord. 19-1035; amd. Ord. 24-1075)
3-4A-15: SOLICITATION FROM VEHICLES:
It shall be unlawful for any person, while the occupant of a moving vehicle, to
solicit, or attempt to solicit, employment, business or contributions of money
or other property, from a person who is within the public right of way,
including, but not limited to, a public street, highway, sidewalk or driveway.
(Ord. 94-764)
ARTICLE B. STREET BENCHES
SECTION:
3-4B-0: Permit Required
3-4B-1: Application For Permit
3-4B-2: Priority Of Application
3-4B-3: Construction
3-4B-4: Limitation Of Advertising
3-4B-5: License Fee
3-4B-6: Permittee's Obligations
3-4B-7: Installation Without Permit
3-4B-8: Revocation Of Permit
3-4B-9: Recovery By Owner
3-4B-10: Bond Or Insurance Policy
3-4B-11: Permit Index File
3-4B-12: Enforcement
3-4B-0: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person shall place, install or maintain any bench on any street within the
city, without first obtaining a written permit therefor from the city. A
separate permit shall be obtained for each bench, which permit shall be valid
only for the particular locations specified thereon. There shall not be more
than two (2) benches at any one location. (1960 Code)
3-4B-1: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
Application for permit must be submitted in writing to the city for each bench
and must show:
   A.   The name and address of the applicant;
   B.   The location where the bench is to be placed;
   C.   A description of the bench showing its type, general dimensions and
material construction;
   D.   A description of the advertising, if any, to appear thereon. (1960
Code)
3-4B-2: PRIORITY OF APPLICATION:
Applications will be processed by the city on a first come basis. When two (2)
or more applications for the same location are received at the same time, the
one with the earliest postmark will be honored, unless an application has been
filed with a prior time stamp at the city hall. (1960 Code)
3-4B-3: CONSTRUCTION:
Every street bench shall not be more than eight feet (8') in length, or more
than forty two inches (42") high, and must be of sturdy, safe construction
approved by the city engineer. (1960 Code)
3-4B-4: LIMITATION OF ADVERTISING:
No advertisement sign, printing or writing on any street bench shall display
"Stop", "Look", "Drive-In", or any other word, symbol or device calculated to
interfere with, mislead or distract traffic. (1960 Code)
3-4B-5: LICENSE FEE:
Upon granting of any application, a fee of three dollars ($3.00) shall be
collected at the time of the issuance of the permit by the city license
collector. Each permit and each renewal permit shall be required on December 31
next following the date of its issuance. If the renewal is granted, a fee of
three dollars ($3.00) for each bench shall be charged and must be paid for each
renewal of the permit. Application for renewal must be made prior to the
expiration date of permit, and must be accompanied by the required renewal fee
or fees. (1960 Code)
3-4B-6: PERMITTEE'S OBLIGATIONS:
No permittee shall locate or maintain any bench at a point or location other
than that specified therefor in the permit for such bench. It shall be the duty
of the permittee to maintain each bench at all times in a safe condition and at
its proper and lawful location. (1960 Code)
3-4B-7: INSTALLATION WITHOUT PERMIT:
Any bench installed without a permit shall be removed by the city. (1960 Code)
3-4B-8: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
After the revocation of any permit, the city may order the removal and storage
of the bench, if the permittee fails to do so within ten (10) days after
notice. (1960 Code)
3-4B-9: RECOVERY BY OWNER:
Notwithstanding the provisions of sections
3-4B-7 and
 3-4B-8 of this article, the permittee may recover the bench, if within sixty
(60) days after the removal, he pays the cost of such removal and storage,
which shall not exceed two dollars ($2.00) for removal and five dollars ($5.00)
a month for storage, for each such bench. After sixty (60) days, the city
council may sell, destroy or otherwise dispose of the bench at its discretion.
All of the foregoing shall be at the sole risk of the permittee, and shall be
in addition to any other remedy provided by law for the violation of this
section. (1960 Code)
3-4B-10: BOND OR INSURANCE POLICY:
No permit shall be issued pursuant to these sections unless the applicant shall
post and maintain with the city license collector a surety bond or policy of
public liability insurance, approved by the city attorney and conditioned as
hereinafter provided. Such bond or policy shall be subject to the following
conditions and provisions:
   A.   The bond or policy shall be so conditioned such that the permittee
shall indemnify and save the city of Temple City, its officers and employees
from any and all loss, costs, damages, expenses or liability which may result
from or arise out of the granting of the permit, or the installation or
maintenance of the bench for which the permit is issued and that the permittee
shall pay any and all loss or damage that may be sustained by any person as a
result of, or which may be caused by or arise out of such installation or
maintenance;
   B.   The bond or policy of insurance shall be maintained in its original
amount by the permittee at this expense at all times during the period for
which the permit is in effect;
   C.   In the event that two (2) or more permits are issued to one permittee,
one such bond or policy of insurance may be furnished to cover two (2) or more
benches, and each bond or policy shall be of such type that its coverage shall
be automatically restored immediately from and after the time for the reporting
of any accident from which liability may thereafter accrue;
   D.   The limit of liability upon any bond or policy of insurance, posted
pursuant to the requirements of this section shall in no case be less than
fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) for bodily injuries to or death of one
person, one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) for any one accident, nor
less than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) for property damage. (1960 Code)
3-4B-11: PERMIT INDEX FILE:
The street superintendent shall keep and maintain an index file of all permits
granted or renewed under the provisions of this article. (1960 Code)
3-4B-12: ENFORCEMENT:
The street superintendent and police chief, shall enforce the provisions of
this article, furthermore, the street superintendent shall make annual surveys
as to the condition of all such benches hereunder permitted. (1960 Code)
ARTICLE C. UMBRELLAS
SECTION:
3-4C-0: Definitions
3-4C-1: Installation
3-4C-2: License Fee
3-4C-3: Insurance
3-4C-4: Conditions For Issuance Of License
3-4C-5: Authority Of City Manager
3-4C-6: Title
3-4C-7: Advertising
3-4C-8: Termination
3-4C-0: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, the following terms shall be defined as set forth
herein:
   OWNER: Shall include the plural as well as the singular and shall include
all forms of entity, including, but not limited to, corporations, partnerships,
joint ventures, sole proprietorships, joint tenancies, tenants in common and
community property.
   UMBRELLA: A shade consisting of cotton or other fabric or of metal, extended
on strips of metal or other material fastened to a pole or rod usually by
pivots or hinges so as to allow for its being opened and closed with ease.
"Umbrella" shall be deemed to include the singular as well as the plural. (1960
Code)
3-4C-1: INSTALLATION:
Umbrellas may be installed upon city sidewalks in certain locations and zones
only upon compliance with the provisions of this part. Furthermore, umbrellas
may be installed only in zones C-1, C-2, and C-3 as established by this code.
(1960 Code)
3-4C-2: LICENSE FEE:
A license fee in the sum of five dollars ($5.00) for each umbrella shall be
paid to the city clerk, which fee shall be paid prior to the installation of an
umbrella. The license fee shall be valid only to the end of the fiscal year of
the city of Temple City in which it is paid. License renewals must be paid
within ten (10) days of the commencement of each fiscal year. (1960 Code)
3-4C-3: INSURANCE:
No license shall be issued by the city clerk until the applicant for license
has handed to the city clerk written proof of insurance, by an insurance
company approved by the city attorney of coverage for the term of the license,
which insurance coverage shall hold the city free and harmless from any loss,
damage or liability resulting in any way from the installation of any umbrellas
installed by the applicant, in an amount not less than two hundred fifty
thousand dollars ($250,000.00) for injuries, including death, to any one
person, and subject to the same limit for each person in an amount not less
than five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) on account of one accident and
twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) property damage. (1960 Code)
3-4C-4: CONDITIONS FOR ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
No permit shall be issued by the city clerk except to the owner of the real
property most immediately adjacent to the sidewalk upon which the umbrella is
to be located or to the owner of the business, but both the owner of the real
property and the owner of the business shall execute an agreement with the city
in such form as may be approved by the city council. (1960 Code)
3-4C-5: AUTHORITY OF CITY MANAGER:
The city manager shall have the following authority and duties:
   A.   The city manager shall set up administrative rules and regulations
concerning the size, construction and installation of umbrellas, which
administrative rules and regulations shall be directed to public safety.
   B.   All umbrellas shall be located upon sidewalks only at such locations as
shall be approved by the city manager.
   C.   The city manager may cause to be removed any umbrella without notice if
the city manager shall determine any umbrella to be dangerous to persons or
property.
   D.   The city manager may cause to be removed any umbrella he shall deem
unsightly or in need of repair after giving the licensee of the particular
umbrella three (3) day notice in writing so to do and no correction of the
particular umbrella having been made pursuant to the notice served. Such notice
shall be in writing, sent by regular mail to the address appearing on the
license for the particular umbrella. (1960 Code)
3-4C-6: TITLE:
Title to any umbrellas removed under subsection
3-4C-5C or D of this article shall pass forthwith upon removal to the city.
(1960 Code)
3-4C-7: ADVERTISING:
No words, lettering, writing or pictures or drawings of any kind shall appear
on any umbrellas licensed in this code. (1960 Code)
3-4C-8: TERMINATION:
All licenses issued under this article shall be issued subject to the right of
the city of Temple City to terminate and cancel all licenses issued at any time
upon a resolution adopted by the city council of the city of Temple City at a
regularly called meeting which resolution shall declare and determine that the
continued installation of the umbrellas is detrimental to the public health and
well being of the people of Temple City. Each licensee shall be deemed to have
notice of the provision whether stated upon the license or not and a finding by
the city council that the umbrellas continued installation is detrimental to
the public health shall be conclusive. (1960 Code)
ARTICLE D. TREE PRESERVATION AND PROTECTION
SECTION:
3-4D-0: Purpose And Intent
3-4D-1: Applicability
3-4D-2: Definitions
3-4D-3: Jurisdiction
3-4D-4: Master Tree List
3-4D-5: Public Tree Planting And Maintenance
3-4D-6: Approval Prior To Planting
3-4D-7: Duty To Maintain Trees
3-4D-8: Protection Of Trees
3-4D-9: Removal Of Public Trees
3-4D-10: Permits
3-4D-11: Appeals
3-4D-12: Violations; Penalties
3-4D-0: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
This article is adopted for the purpose of establishing policies, regulations
and specifications relating to the planting, care, maintenance and removal of
trees, shrubs and any other plantings in public areas, including rights of way
and easements, and the maintenance of private trees that impact public areas.
These policies are necessary to govern installation, maintenance and
preservation of trees to beautify the city, to purify the air, to provide shade
and wind protection, and to provide habitat for birds and other animals.
It is the policy of the city to line its streets with trees and to conduct a
consistent and adequate program for maintaining and preserving these trees. It
is the goal of this article to provide for planting trees in all areas of the
city and for selecting appropriate species to achieve as much beauty and
economy as possible. It is also the policy of the city to protect and preserve
all desirable trees that are located on the city's right of way. (Ord. 13-983)
3-4D-1: APPLICABILITY:
This article provides full power and authority to the city over all trees,
plants and shrubs located within street rights of way, public parks and public
areas of the city; and to trees and shrubs located on private property that
constitute a hazard or threat to the community at large. (Ord. 13-983)
3-4D-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, the following terms shall be defined as set forth
herein:
   COMMISSION: The parks and recreation commission of the city of Temple City.
   DIRECTOR: The city's director of parks and recreation or the person
designated with responsibility for the city's tree program.
   DRIP LINE: A line which may be drawn on the ground around a tree directly
under its outermost branch tips which identifies the location where rainwater
tends to drip from the tree.
   EXCEPTIONAL SPECIMEN TREE: A tree considered an outstanding specimen of its
species by reason of age, rarity, location, size, aesthetic quality, endemic
status, or unique character.
   HAZARD OR HAZARDOUS CONDITION: Any condition in a tree or shrub that poses a
significant threat of serious injury or harm to the public or considerable
damage to real property.
   MAINTAIN OR MAINTENANCE: The entire care of trees and shrubs including
ground preparation, fertilizing, cultivating, trimming, treating for disease or
injury or similar acts which promotes the life, growth, health or beauty of any
planting.
   MASTER TREE LIST: A document that specifies the species of trees suitable
and desirable for planting in certain public areas of the city in order to
establish a diverse urban forest.
   PARKWAY: That portion of a public street which is not improved for actual
street, curb, gutter, or sidewalk use and which is available for planting and
maintaining trees.
   PRIVATE TREE: Any tree where the centerline of the trunk is located on
private property and not within any public right of way.
   PROPERTY OWNER: The legal owner of any real property, and any lessee of such
owner.
   PRUNING, TRIMMING OR THINNING: Methods to control the height and spread of a
tree, preserve its health and appearance, produce fuller branching and shaping,
aid in disease prevention by allowing more light and air passage within which
will increase its longevity in an urban environment.
   PUBLIC AREA: Any property that is owned, controlled by, or dedicated to the
city other than a public street, including, but not limited to, parks, areas
around city owned buildings, city owned parking lots, and all other areas under
the supervision and control of the city.
   PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY: All public areas and public streets in the city.
   PUBLIC STREET: Includes every way set apart for public travel or use in the
city, including any area available for use as a city street, road, avenue,
boulevard, lane, alley, median, parkway, planting strip, curb, gutter, or
sidewalk owned by the city in fee or as an easement or right of way for public
use.
   PUBLIC TREE: Any tree where the centerline of the trunk lies within the
public right of way of the city.
   REMOVAL: The uprooting, cutting or severing of the main trunk or major
branches of a tree, or any act which causes or may be reasonably expected to
cause a tree to die.
   ROOT PRUNING: Cutting back tree roots where they may be damaging curbs,
gutters, sidewalks, driveways, and possibly sewer and water lines or other
utilities in an attempt to prevent further damage, undertake necessary concrete
repair work, and to avert or at least postpone the need for actual tree
removal.
   SEVERE PRUNING: Pruning the tree that deviates from industry standards by
removing more than twenty five percent (25%) of the foliage or leaving stubs.
   SHRUB: A low woody plant having several stems and a trunk less than three
inches (3") in diameter at a height less than four and one-half feet (41/2')
above the ground.
   TREE: Any woody plant which has the potential of attaining a minimum height
of fifteen feet (15') and has a canopy of foliage borne normally by a single
trunk.
   URBAN FOREST: A collection of trees that grows within a city, town or
suburb, including trees on public streets, public areas, and on private
property to provide for multiple use benefits for the general well being of the
entire community.
   VALID TREE SITE: A location in that area of the public right of way where a
tree can be planted. All tree sites beneath electrical lines shall be
considered small tree sites. (Ord. 13-983)
3-4D-3: JURISDICTION:
The city manager, acting through the director or his/her designee, shall
exercise exclusive jurisdiction and control over the planting, maintenance,
removal and replacement of trees, shrubs, or plants in all public rights of way
of the city, and shall have such power, authority, jurisdiction and duties as
are prescribed in this article. (Ord. 13-983)
3-4D-4: MASTER TREE LIST:
The city shall develop and maintain a master tree list, which shall be adopted
by resolution of the city council and shall be on file in the office of the
city clerk. The master tree list shall specify the species of trees suitable
and desirable for planting in certain areas in order to establish a diverse
urban forest. (Ord. 13-983)
3-4D-5: PUBLIC TREE PLANTING AND MAINTENANCE:
The City Manager, acting through the Director or his/her designee, shall
develop and implement a program for the scheduling of public tree maintenance
on a regular basis including policies and standards for planting and
maintenance required of all trees located in the public right-of-way. (Ord. 13-
983)
3-4D-6: APPROVAL PRIOR TO PLANTING:
No tree or shrub shall be planted in the public right-of-way of the City unless
the Director or his/her designee first approves the kind and variety,
designates the location therefor, and grants a permit for planting pursuant to
section
3-4D-10 of this article. Any tree planted without a permit, or any tree that
voluntarily grows in a public area that is not an approved species, or is not
located in a desirable area, shall be removed by the property owner or by the
City. (Ord. 15-1007)
3-4D-7: DUTY TO MAINTAIN TREES:
   A.   It shall be the obligation of the Director or his/her designee, to
perform appropriate scheduled maintenance, including, but not limited to,
pruning, fertilization and pest control, based on age, species, size, and
location to assure the proper maintenance of all public trees, except as
otherwise provided herein.
   B.   With the exception of pruning and trimming, property owners are
responsible for the proper maintenance of parkways, and the trees planted
within the parkways, adjacent to their property. Such maintenance shall
include, but not be limited to, irrigation and maintaining the area surrounding
the trees to be free from weeds or other obstructions. (Ord. 13-983)
   C.   Notwithstanding other provisions of this article, it is the
responsibility of every property owner, at their sole cost, to keep all private
trees which extend over any public street trimmed so that the branches
overhanging the public street are at least fourteen feet (14') above ground
level, except that a clearance of at least eight feet (8') shall be permitted
over a sidewalk area.
   D.   The Director or his/her designee may remove limbs from any tree or
shrub regardless of its location, if in his/her opinion immediate removal is
necessary because the limb presents an imminent danger to persons or property.
If the removal would require entry onto private property, the Director or his/
her designee shall comply with the procedures for the summary abatement of
nuisances in section
4-2C-17 of this Code.
   E.   Any person requesting service on any public tree such as trimming,
pruning, root pruning or spraying, but desiring to have it undertaken sooner
than the City is able to schedule work, may apply for a permit from the City
pursuant to section
3-4D-10 of this article. (Ord. 17-1027)
3-4D-8: PROTECTION OF TREES:
No person shall:
   A.   Plant, remove, trim, prune, spray or cut above or below ground any tree
or shrub growing in the public right-of-way without first obtaining a permit to
do so from the Director pursuant to section
3-4D-10 of this article. A permit shall not be required to perform the routine
maintenance of parkway trees required by subsection
3-4D-7B of this article.
   B.   Remove, injure or misuse any guard or device placed to protect any tree
or shrub growing in the public right-of-way of the City.
   C.   Attach or keep attached to any tree growing in the public right-of-way
any rope, wire, nail, tack, staples, advertising posters or other contrivance
whatsoever.
   D.   Deposit, discharge, release, or apply, or allow any agent, employee,
invitee, or licensee allowed to enter upon his property to deposit, discharge,
release or apply, any hazardous material or toxic substance upon the ground
that lies within the drip line of any tree or shrub growing in the public
right-of-way.
   E.   Construct, place or maintain any structure or thing that impedes the
free access of water or air to a public tree.
   F.   Place or pile building material, equipment or other substances around
any public tree.
   G.   Construct retaining walls, fences, or similar improvements which impede
the planting or maintaining of public trees or affect the growth of public
trees.
   H.   Interfere, or cause any person to interfere, with employees of the City
or contractors employed by the City, who are engaged in planting, maintaining,
treating, removing or replacing any public tree or shrub or removing any
material which is likely to cause injury to the tree or shrub.
   I.   Change the grade around any public tree. (Ord. 13-983)
3-4D-9: REMOVAL OF PUBLIC TREES:
   A.   Criteria For Removal: The City values trees as an important part of the
environment and shall strive to preserve them whenever possible and feasible.
Subject to provisions of this article, the Director or his/her designee shall
be responsible for inspection, maintenance, removal and replacement of public
trees, and may cause public trees to be removed, or permit the removal of a
public tree pursuant to a permit, if they are deemed to be:
      1.   Dead;
      2.   Dying, decayed or hazardous, or so weakened by age, disease, storm,
fire, excavation, removal of adjacent trees, or any injury so as to cause
imminent danger to persons or property;
      3.   Structurally unsound due to an abnormal and uncorrectable structure
or appearance due to severe pruning or storm damage;
      4.   Diseased beyond reclamation, or the condition of which is a source
of present danger to healthy trees in the vicinity, providing that an
inspection and notice attesting to such fact has been completed by a State
licensed pest control advisor or arborist;
      5.   Obstructing curb, gutter or sidewalk repair, or in the way of a new
curb, gutter or sidewalk for which an exception to standard design is
determined by the Director to be inconsistent with established policies and
standards for public tree planting and maintenance;
      6.   In dangerous proximity to existing structures or interfering with
existing utilities;
      7.   Causing excessive damage to curbs, gutters, sidewalks, or driveways;
      8.   Obstructing proposed improvements so as to restrict economic
enjoyment of the adjacent property, including the construction or safe use of a
driveway or parking space for which a permit has been issued, unless such tree
has been designated as an exceptional specimen tree;
      9.   Crowded by other trees and good horticultural practices dictate
removal of some of them;
      10.   Otherwise healthy, but the removal of which is considered desirable
because it is a proven nuisance species and/or in order to achieve a properly
staged tree replacement schedule which enables several generations of trees to
exist simultaneously;
      11.   Causing an allergic reaction to a property owner whose property is
adjacent to the public tree. The property owner must provide a certification
from a physician licensed to practice in California that the tree is causing
the property owner to suffer allergic reactions. Exceptional specimen trees may
not be removed pursuant to this subsection A11;
      12.   Incompatible with the growing space or unsuitable for use in its
present location;
      13.   To facilitate hardscape repairs that cannot be completed without
severe root pruning or other action that would jeopardize the health and
stability of the tree. (Ord. 15-1007)
   B.   Removal Process: All public tree removals, whether by the City or by a
private citizen pursuant to a permit issued under section
3-4D-10 of this article, shall adhere to the following procedures:
      1.   Upon approval of the removal of a public tree the City shall place a
visible, nonremovable marking upon the subject tree indicating the tree is
scheduled for removal a minimum of thirty (30) days prior to its removal.
      2.   A letter of notification will be sent to the owner of any private
property adjacent to where the tree is scheduled to be removed at least thirty
(30) days prior to the removal.
      3.   The City Manager, acting through the Director or his/her designee,
may waive notification requirements for a tree removal in either of the
following circumstances:
         a.   When the City Manager, acting through the Director or his/her
designee, determines that a tree's condition immediately threatens public
health, safety or welfare;
         b.   When local, State or Federal authorities have declared a state of
emergency and a tree's condition threatens public health, safety or welfare.
      4.   All tree removal shall include the removal of the stump and the
removal of all stump grinding chips and the backfilling of the hole created by
stump removal with a good quality topsoil suitable for the replanting of a
replacement tree.
      5.   All removed trees shall be replaced with a tree of the same species
as removed, except where the location of the removed tree is not a valid tree
site or the removed species does not conform to the recommended species for the
location in the master tree list approved by the City.
      6.   Trees that are touching or nearly touching utility lines shall be
replaced with a recommended species.
      7.   All tree replanting shall be with a minimum fifteen (15) gallon
container tree. For City removals, the City will only plant a larger tree if a
person agrees to pay the difference in cost of a larger replacement tree size
and any additional costs associated with the planting of a larger tree. (Ord.
13-983)
3-4D-10: PERMITS:
   A.   Any person may apply for a permit from the City to plant, remove, trim,
prune, spray or cut above or below ground any tree or shrub growing in the
public right-of-way.
   B.   The applicant shall submit a complete application form, along with any
required permit fee, to the Director or his/her designee. The application form
shall require the applicant to describe in detail the work the applicant is
proposing to perform, identify the licensed contractor who will be performing
the work, and any other information the Director deems necessary. The applicant
must also submit proof of insurance coverage for the proposed work that
satisfies the City's current insurance requirements.
   C.   The Director shall approve or deny the application within thirty (30)
days of receiving a completed application and proof of insurance. The Director
shall notify the applicant by mail of the decision. Notice of the decision
shall also be given to the property owner(s) who own property adjacent to the
location of the tree. (Ord. 13-983)
   D.   The applicant or any other interested person who resides or owns
property within the City limits may appeal the decision of the Director to the
commission within fifteen (15) days of the notification of the decision. The
appeal shall be heard in the same manner as provided in section
3-4D-11 of this article. (Ord. 17-1027)
   E.   The permittee shall bear all costs associated with the work to be
performed under the permit. (Ord. 13-983)
3-4D-11: APPEALS:
Any person who resides or owns property within the City limits may appeal a
decision of the Director under section
3-4D-10 of this article to remove or not remove a public tree to the commission
within fifteen (15) days of notification of the decision. Upon receipt of an
appeal request, the Director shall schedule the appeal hearing for the next
available commission meeting. The appeal shall be a public hearing, and mailed
notice of the public hearing shall be given to the adjacent property owner and
any other person who has requested notice at least ten (10) days prior to the
hearing. If the commission denies an applicant's appeal, the applicant may
request a final appeal to the City Council within ten (10) calendar days of the
commission's decision. The same procedures for an appeal to the commission
shall be followed for an appeal to the Council. Fees for an appeal shall be
determined by resolution of the City Council. (Ord. 17-1027)
3-4D-12: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause damage to any public tree
by any act or omission, whenever such act or omission is expressly prohibited
by this article or not. Negligent or wilful injury to, or disfigurement of, any
public tree shall be a violation of this article. Any person or persons who
negligently or wilfully damage, disfigure or destroy any public tree shall be
charged for all actual replacement or repair costs. The repair or replacement
costs shall also include all legal, administrative and other costs incurred by
the City associated with the repair or replacement.
   B.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punishable therefor by a fine of not more
than five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 13-983)
ARTICLE E. ENCROACHMENTS
SECTION:
3-4E-0: Definitions
3-4E-1: Right Of Way Encroachments Prohibited
3-4E-0: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, the following terms shall be defined as set forth
herein:
   ENCROACHMENT: Any physical obstruction or protrusion other than permitted
driveway curb cuts and aprons, turf, normal ground cover or street trees.
   SIDEWALK RIGHT OF WAY: The space between the curb line of the street and the
inside property line, whether covered with cement walk or not. (See also
definition of "sidewalk" in section
3-4A-0 of this chapter.)
   STREET RIGHT OF WAY: Any public thoroughfare or way including the sidewalk,
the parkway and any other public property bordering upon a public way. (See
also definition of "streets" in section
3-4A-0 of this chapter.) (Ord. 95-783)
3-4E-1: RIGHT OF WAY ENCROACHMENTS PROHIBITED:
No person shall install or allow to continue any physical obstruction or
protrusion other than permitted driveway curb cuts and aprons, turf, normal
ground cover/landscaping or street trees within the sidewalk and street right
of way area adjacent to private property. (Ord. 95-783)
CHAPTER 5
PARKS AND CIVIC CENTER
ARTICLE A. GENERAL
SECTION:
3-5A-0: Definitions
3-5A-0: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall be defined as set forth
herein:
   CIVIC CENTER: That area of the city which contains the city hall, civic
center building, library, and adjacent parking lots.
   DIRECTOR: The city's director of parks and recreation or the person
responsible for the operations of the parks and recreation department.
   PARK: A park, reservation, playground, beach, recreation center or any other
area in the city owned or used by the city, and devoted to active and passive
recreation including any adjacent parking lots.
   STAFF: Any employee of the city of Temple City immediately in charge of any
park area and its activities.
   VEHICLE: Any wheeled conveyance, whether motor powered, animal drawn or
self-propelled, including bicycles, skateboards, scooters and similar self-
propelled conveyance. The term shall include any trailer in tow of any size,
kind or description. Exception is made for baby carriages, wheelchairs and any
vehicles in the service of the city. (Ord. 05-899)
ARTICLE B. PARK PROPERTY
SECTION:
3-5B-0: Disfiguration And Removal
3-5B-1: Restrooms And Washrooms
3-5B-2: Removal Of Natural Resources
3-5B-3: Erection Of Structures
3-5B-4: Injury, Removal Or Planting
3-5B-5: Climbing Upon Park Property
3-5B-6: Hitching Of Animals
3-5B-7: Hunting
3-5B-8: Feeding
3-5B-9: Pollution Of Waters
3-5B-10: Refuse And Trash
3-5B-0: DISFIGURATION AND REMOVAL:
No person shall wilfully mark, deface, disfigure, injure, tamper with or
displace or remove any building, bridges, tables, benches, fireplaces,
railings, paving or paving material, water lines or other public utilities or
parts or appurtenances thereof, signs, notices or placards whether temporary or
permanent, monuments, stakes, posts or other boundary markers, or other
structures or equipment, facilities or park property or appurtenances
whatsoever, either real or personal. (Ord. 05-899)
3-5B-1: RESTROOMS AND WASHROOMS:
No person shall fail to cooperate in maintaining restrooms and washrooms in a
neat sanitary condition. No person over the age of six (6) years shall use the
restrooms and washrooms designated for the opposite sex. (Ord. 05-899)
3-5B-2: REMOVAL OF NATURAL RESOURCES:
No person shall dig or remove any sand whether submerged or not, or any soil,
rock, stones, trees, shrubs or plants, down timber or other wood or materials
or make any excavation by tool, equipment, blasting or other means of agency
except upon prior written approval of the director. (Ord. 05-899)
3-5B-3: ERECTION OF STRUCTURES:
No person shall construct or erect any building or structure of whatever kind,
whether permanent or temporary in character, or run or string any public
service utility into, upon or across such lands, except upon prior written
approval of the director. (Ord. 05-899)
3-5B-4: INJURY, REMOVAL OR PLANTING:
No person shall damage, cut, carve, plant, transplant or remove any tree or
plant or injure the bark or pick the flowers or seeds of any tree or plant. Nor
shall any person attach any rope, wire or other contrivance to any tree or
plant. A person shall not dig in or otherwise disturb grass areas or in any
other way injure or impair the natural beauty or usefulness of any area. (Ord.
05-899)
3-5B-5: CLIMBING UPON PARK PROPERTY:
No person shall climb any tree or walk, stand or sit upon any buildings,
structures, monuments, vases, fountains, railings, fences or gun carriages or
upon any other property not designated or customarily used for such purposes.
(Ord. 05-899)
3-5B-6: HITCHING OF ANIMALS:
No person shall tie or hitch any animal to any structure, equipment, facility
or park property. (Ord. 05-899)
3-5B-7: HUNTING:
No person shall hunt, molest, harm, frighten, kill, trap, chase, tease, shoot
or throw missiles at any animal, reptile or bird; nor shall he remove or have
in his possession the young of any wild animal, or the eggs or nest, or young
of any reptile or bird; nor shall he collect, remove, have in his possession,
give away, sell or offer to sell, or buy or offer to buy, or accept as a gift,
any specimen alive or dead of any of the group of tree snails. Exception to the
foregoing is made in that snakes known to be deadly poisonous such as
rattlesnakes, moccasins, coral snakes or other deadly reptiles, may be killed
on sight. (Ord. 05-899)
3-5B-8: FEEDING:
No person shall give or offer, or attempt to give to any animal or bird or
reptile any tobacco, alcohol or other known noxious substances. (Ord. 05-899)
3-5B-9: POLLUTION OF WATERS:
No person shall throw, discharge or otherwise place or cause to be placed in
the waters of any fountain or pond or other body of water in or adjacent to any
park or any storm sewer, or drain flowing into such waters, any substance,
matter or thing, liquid or solid, which will or may result in the pollution of
said waters. (Ord. 05-899)
3-5B-10: REFUSE AND TRASH:
No person shall have brought in or shall dump, deposit or leave any bottles,
broken glass, ashes, paper, boxes, cans, dirt, rubbish, waste, garbage or
refuse or other trash. No such refuse or trash shall be placed in any waters in
or contiguous to any park or left anywhere on the grounds thereof, but shall be
placed in the proper receptacles where these are provided; where receptacles
are not provided all such rubbish or waste shall be carried away from the park
by the person responsible for its presence and properly disposed of elsewhere.
(Ord. 05-899)
ARTICLE C. TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
SECTION:
3-5C-0: State Motor Vehicle Laws Apply
3-5C-1: Enforcement Of Traffic Regulations
3-5C-2: Traffic Signs
3-5C-3: Operation Of Vehicles
3-5C-4: Operation Confined To Roads (Rep. by Ord. 05-899)
3-5C-5: Parking, Designated Areas
3-5C-6: Full Parking (Rep. by Ord. 05-899)
3-5C-7: Immovable Vehicles
3-5C-8: Vehicle Parking
3-5C-9: Emergency Procedure (Rep. by Ord. 05-899)
3-5C-10: Double Parking
3-5C-11: Muffler Required (Rep. by Ord. 05-899)
3-5C-12: Bicycles Confined To Road
3-5C-13: Operation Of Bicycles
3-5C-14: Rider Prohibited
3-5C-15: Designated Racks
3-5C-16: Immobile
3-5C-17: Night Operation
3-5C-0: STATE MOTOR VEHICLE LAWS APPLY:
No person shall fail to comply with all applicable provisions of any city,
county or state vehicle codes or traffic laws in regard to equipment and
operation of vehicles together with such regulations as are contained in this
and other ordinances. (Ord. 05-899)
3-5C-1: ENFORCEMENT OF TRAFFIC REGULATIONS:
No person shall fail to obey all traffic officers and park employees, such
persons being hereby authorized and instructed to direct traffic whenever and
wherever needed in the parks and on the highways, streets or roads immediately
adjacent thereto in accordance with the provisions of these regulations and
such supplementary regulations as may be issued subsequently by the director.
(Ord. 05-899)
3-5C-2: TRAFFIC SIGNS:
No person shall fail to observe carefully all traffic signs indicating speed,
direction, caution, stopping, or parking and all others posted for proper
control and to safeguard life and property. (Ord. 05-899)
3-5C-3: OPERATION OF VEHICLES:
No person shall ride or drive a vehicle on any area except the paved park roads
or parking areas or such other areas as may on occasion be specifically
designated as temporary parking areas by the director. (Ord. 05-899)
3-5C-4: OPERATION CONFINED TO ROADS:
(Rep. by Ord. 05-899)
3-5C-5: PARKING, DESIGNATED AREAS:
All persons shall park a vehicle only in an established or designated parking
area, and such use shall be in accordance with the posted directions thereat
and with the instructions of an attendant who may be present. (Ord. 05-899)
3-5C-6: FULL PARKING:
(Rep. by Ord. 05-899)
3-5C-7: IMMOVABLE VEHICLES:
It shall be unlawful to leave any vehicle anywhere in the park so that such
vehicle cannot readily be moved by hand. (Ord. 05-899)
3-5C-8: VEHICLE PARKING:
No private vehicle shall be parked in any park area including parking lots
between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M.,
without the written consent of the director or other authorizing city official.
Vehicles left unattended between ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:
00) A.M. may be towed. No vehicles shall enter upon any park property except
legally established driveways or parking areas, without the written consent of
the director or other authorized city official. (Ord. 05-899)
3-5C-9: EMERGENCY PROCEDURE:
(Rep. by Ord. 05-899)
3-5C-10: DOUBLE PARKING:
No person shall double park any vehicle on any road or parkway unless directed
by staff. (Ord. 05-899)
3-5C-11: MUFFLER REQUIRED:
(Rep. by Ord. 05-899)
3-5C-12: BICYCLES CONFINED TO ROAD:
No person shall ride a bicycle on other than a paved vehicular road or path
designated for the purpose unless pursuant to a supervised activity approved in
writing by the director or by the department of parks and recreation. A
bicyclist shall be permitted to wheel or push a bicycle by hand over any grassy
area or wooded trail or on any paved area reserved for pedestrian use. (Ord.
05-899)
3-5C-13: OPERATION OF BICYCLES:
No person shall ride a bicycle other than on the right hand side of the road
paving as close as conditions permit, and bicycles shall be kept in a single
file when two (2) or more are operating as a group. Bicyclists shall at all
times operate their machines with reasonable regard to the safety of others,
signal all turns, pass to the right of any vehicle they are overtaking, and
pass to the right of any vehicles they may be meeting. Safety equipment shall
be worn as required by law. (Ord. 05-899)
3-5C-14: RIDER PROHIBITED:
No person shall ride any other person on a bicycle. (Ord. 05-899)
3-5C-15: DESIGNATED RACKS:
No person shall leave a bicycle in a place other than a bicycle rack when such
is provided and there is a space available. (Ord. 05-899)
3-5C-16: IMMOBILE:
No person shall leave a bicycle lying on the ground or paving, or set against
trees, or in any place or position where other persons may trip over or be
injured by them. (Ord. 05-899)
3-5C-17: NIGHT OPERATION:
No person shall ride a bicycle on any road between thirty (30) minutes after
sunset or before thirty (30) minutes before sunrise without an attached
headlight plainly visible at least two hundred feet (200') in front of and
without a red taillight or red reflector plainly visible from at least one
hundred feet (100') from the rear of such bicycle. (Ord. 05-899)
ARTICLE D. PARK ACTIVITIES
SECTION:
3-5D-0: Designated Swimming Areas
3-5D-1: Hours
3-5D-2: Costume
3-5D-3: Bathhouses
3-5D-4: Hunting And Weapons
3-5D-5: Picnic Areas And Use
3-5D-6: Camping
3-5D-7: Games
3-5D-8: Horseback Riding
3-5D-9: Behavior
3-5D-10: Merchandising, Advertising And Signs
3-5D-11: Dogs
3-5D-0: DESIGNATED SWIMMING AREAS:
No person shall swim, bathe or wade in any waters or waterways in or adjacent
to any park, except in such waters and at such places as are provided therefor,
and in compliance with such regulations as are herein set forth or may be
hereafter adopted. Nor shall any person frequent any waters or places
customarily designated for the purpose of swimming or bathing, or congregate
thereat when such activity is prohibited by the director upon a finding that
such use of the water would be dangerous or, otherwise inadvisable. (Ord. 05-
899)
3-5D-1: HOURS:
No person shall frequent any waters or places designated for the purpose of
swimming or bathing, or congregate thereat, except between such hours of the
day as shall be designated by the director for such purposes for each
individual area. (Ord. 05-899)
3-5D-2: COSTUME:
No person shall be so attired in a bathing suit as to allow for the indecent
exposure of such person. (Ord. 05-899)
3-5D-3: BATHHOUSES:
No person shall disrobe for the purpose of changing clothes either in the park,
in any vehicle, toilet or other place, except in such structures as may be
provided for that purpose. (Ord. 05-899)
3-5D-4: HUNTING AND WEAPONS:
No person shall hunt, trap or pursue wildlife at any time. No person shall use,
carry or possess firearms of any description, or air rifles, spring guns, bow
and arrows, slings, swords, knives, or other forms of weapons potentially
inimical to wildlife and dangerous to human safety, or any instrument that can
be loaded with and fire blank cartridges, or any kind of trapping device except
such activities as shall be approved in writing by the director or by the
Temple City department of parks and recreation. Shooting into park areas from
beyond park boundaries is forbidden. (Ord. 05-899)
3-5D-5: PICNIC AREAS AND USE:
Use of picnic areas shall be subject to the following conditions and
provisions:
   A.   All persons shall picnic or lunch only in those areas designated for
that purpose. Attendants shall have the authority to regulate the activities in
such areas when necessary to prevent congestion and to secure the maximum use
for the comfort and convenience of all. Visitors shall comply with any
directions given to achieve this end;
   B.   Use of the individual fireplace together with tables and benches
follows generally the rule of "first come, first served", subject to the
exception that the tables in accordance with such rules of practice as said
department shall adopt, but which rules shall be subject to such change,
addition or modification as the city council shall by resolution adopt;
   C.   No person shall use any portion of the picnic areas or of any of the
buildings or structures therein for the purpose of holding picnics to the
exclusion of other persons, nor shall any person use such area and facilities
for an unreasonable time if the facilities are crowded;
   D.   No person shall leave a picnic area before the fire is completely
extinguished and before all trash in the nature of boxes, papers, cans,
bottles, garbage and other refuse is placed in the disposal receptacles where
provided. If no such trash receptacles are available, then refuse and trash
shall be carried away from the park area by the picnicker to be properly
disposed of elsewhere. (Ord. 05-899)
3-5D-6: CAMPING:
No person shall set up tents, shacks or any other temporary shelter for the
purpose of overnight camping, nor shall any person leave in a park after
closing hours any movable structure or special vehicle to be used or that could
be used for such purpose, such as house trailer, camp trailer, camp wagon or
the like except upon the written approval of the director. (Ord. 05-899)
3-5D-7: GAMES:
No person shall take part in or abet the playing of any games involving thrown
or otherwise propelled objects such as balls, stones, arrows, javelins or model
airplanes except in areas set apart for such forms of recreation. The playing
of rough or comparatively dangerous games such as football, baseball and
quoits, or games that may cause damage to the facilities, is prohibited except
on the fields and courts or areas provided thereof. (Ord. 05-899)
3-5D-8: HORSEBACK RIDING:
No person shall ride a horse within the park area except upon written approval
of the director. (Ord. 05-899)
3-5D-9: BEHAVIOR:
No person in a park or civic center shall, except as express written permission
is granted by the parks and recreation commission:
   A.   Have brought alcoholic beverages nor shall any person drink alcoholic
beverages at any time in the park (except as provided for in section
4-4-0 of this code);
   B.   Have entered or be under the influence of intoxicating liquor or
narcotics, both as defined by the Penal Code of the state of California;
   C.   Brought, or have in his possession or set off or otherwise cause to
explode or discharge or burn, any firecrackers, torpedo, rocket or other
fireworks or explosives of inflammable material or discharge them or throw them
into any such area from land or highway adjacent thereto. This prohibition
includes any substance compound, mixture or article that in conjunction with
any other substance or compound would be dangerous from any of the foregoing
standpoints; (Ord. 05-899)
   D.   Have been responsible for the entry of a dog or other domestic animal
into a city park except for dogs under the circumstances as provided for in
section
3-5D-11 of this article; (Ord. 14-995)
   E.   Occupy any seat or bench, or enter into or loiter or remain in any
pavilion or other park structure or section thereof which may be reserved and
designated for the use of the opposite sex. Exception is made for children
under six (6) years of age;
   F.   Appear at any place in other than proper clothing;
   G.   Solicit alms or contributions for any purpose whether public or private
except that the department of parks and recreation may in writing approve
"passing the hat" at Little League baseball games and such other solicitation
as the department may deem worthwhile;
   H.   Building or attempt to build a fire except in such areas and under such
regulations as may be designated by the director. No person shall drop, throw
or otherwise scatter lighted matches, burning cigarettes or cigars, tobacco
paper or other inflammable material, within any park area or on any highway,
road or street abutting or contiguous thereto;
   I.   Enter an area posted as "Closed To The Public" nor shall any person
use, or abet the use of any area in violation of posted notices;
   J.   Gamble or participate in or abet any game of chance;
   K.   Engage in loud, boisterous, threatening, abusive, insulting or indecent
language, or engage in any disorderly conduct or behavior tending to a breach
of the public peace;
   L.   Fail to produce and exhibit any permit from the director he claims to
have, upon request of any authorized person who shall desire to inspect the
same for the purpose of enforcing compliance with any ordinance or rule;
   M.   Disturb or interfere unreasonably with any person or party occupying
any area or participating in any activity, under the authority of a permit;
   N.   No person shall ride wheeled toys in a park, civic center or in
adjacent parking lots;
   O.   No person shall operate a remote control vehicle in a park;
   P.   No person shall have brought in, procured or be responsible for
carnival type attractions including moon bounces or similar type attractions;
(Ord. 05-899)
   Q.   Smoke and/or possess a lighted tobacco product, including, but not
limited to, cigars, cigarettes, and any electronic smoking device. (Ord. 14-
994)
3-5D-10: MERCHANDISING, ADVERTISING AND SIGNS:
No person in a park shall:
   A.   (Reserved)
   B.   Announce, advertise or call the public attention in any way to any
article of service for sale or hire, except as express written permission is
granted therefor by the parks and recreation commission to further any
charitable or worthy cause;
   C.   Paste, glue, tack or otherwise post any sign, placard, advertisement or
inscription whatever, nor shall any person erect or cause to be erected any
sign whatever on any public lands or highways or roads adjacent to a park,
except as express written permission is granted therefor by the parks and
recreation commission to further any charitable or worthy cause. (Ord. 05-899;
Ord. 19-1035)
3-5D-11: DOGS:
   A.   Dogs are prohibited in the following areas of the parks:
      1.   Building interiors, patios, and covered walkways immediately
adjacent thereto;
      2.   Performing arts pavilion;
      3.   Playgrounds;
      4.   Picnic shelters;
      5.   Tennis courts;
      6.   Basketball courts;
      7.   Athletic fields;
      8.   Baseball/softball fields;
      9.   Bleachers; and
      10.   Areas temporarily designated by the director during special events.
   B.   Dogs are permitted in passive grass areas and walkways of the parks,
not included in subsection A of this section, or in areas designated from time
to time by the director. The following requirements shall be adhered to by the
person(s) responsible for the dog:
      1.   Dogs must be securely restrained by a leash no longer than six feet
(6') of sufficient strength, and under the full care, custody and proper
control of a competent and capable person. Dogs shall not be left unattended at
any time.
      2.   Persons responsible for the dog shall immediately remove and
properly dispose of any dog waste.
      3.   The presence of a dog shall constitute implied consent of the dog's
owner or any person responsible for the dog, to strictly follow the rules of
this section and shall constitute a waiver of liability to the city, its
elected officials, officers and employees, and assumption of all risks, and an
agreement and undertaking to protect, and indemnify, defend and hold harmless
the city, its elected officials, officers and employees, for any injury or
damage to persons or property during any time that the dog is in the park or
civic center.
   C.   Dogs controlled by law enforcement and legitimate service dogs and
guide dogs are exempt from the prohibitions in subsection A of this section.
   D.   Any person who violates any provision of this section is guilty of an
infraction pursuant to section
1-2-0-2 of this code and may be subject to a penalty of one hundred dollars
($100.00) for the first offense and two hundred dollars ($200.00) for the
second offense; subsequent violations shall be deemed "misdemeanors" and are
subject to a penalty of five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 14-995)
ARTICLE E. OPERATIONS POLICY
SECTION:
3-5E-0: Hours
3-5E-1: Closed Areas
3-5E-2: Permits
3-5E-3: Public Storage
3-5E-4: Enforcement
3-5E-5: Ejectment
3-5E-6: Seizure Of Property
3-5E-7: Reserved
3-5E-8: Loitering
3-5E-9: Rules And Regulations
3-5E-10: Temporary Exclusion Of Violators
3-5E-11: Park Facility Utilization And Utility Fees
3-5E-0: HOURS:
Except for unusual and unforeseen emergencies or specific holidays designated
by the director, parks shall be open to the public every day of the year during
designated hours. The opening and closing of each individual park shall be
posted therein for public information.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this code, all municipally owned parks
and recreation areas of the city shall be closed between the hours of ten
o'clock (10:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. The parks and recreation
director of the city may, from time to time, authorize in writing group
recreational activities to continue after ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. (Ord. 05-
899)
3-5E-1: CLOSED AREAS:
Any section or part of any park may be declared closed to the public by the
director at any time and for any interval of time, either temporarily or at
regular and stated intervals (daily or otherwise) and either entirely or merely
to certain uses, as the director shall find reasonably necessary. (Ord. 05-899)
3-5E-2: PERMITS:
   A.   All organized and/or scheduled use of park facilities require that an
application for said use shall be filed with the parks and recreation
department. Reserved use of city athletic fields shall be limited to
organizations and groups with fifty one percent (51%) or more of Temple City
residents as verified by membership rolls and/or team rosters.
A person seeking issuance of a permit hereunder shall file an application with
the appropriate director. The application shall state:
      1.   The name and address of the applicant;
      2.   The name and address of the person, persons, corporation or
association sponsoring the activity, if any;
      3.   The day and hours for which permit is desired;
      4.   The park or portion thereof for which such permit is desired;
      5.   An estimate of the anticipated attendance;
      6.   Any other information, which the director shall find reasonably
necessary to a fair determination, as to whether a permit should be issued
hereunder;
   B.   The director shall issue a permit hereunder when he finds:
      1.   That the proposed activity or use of the park will not unreasonably
interfere with or detract from the general public enjoyment of the park;
      2.   That the proposed activity and use will not unreasonably interfere
with or detract from the promotion of public health, welfare, safety and
recreation;
      3.   That the proposed activity or use is not reasonably anticipated to
incite violence, crime or disorderly conduct;
      4.   That the proposed activity will not entail unusual, extraordinary or
burdensome expense or police operation by the city;
      5.   That the facilities desired have not been reserved for other use at
the day and hour required in the application;
   C.   A fee shall be paid in such amount as shall be set by the city council
in a resolution adopted by the city council at a regular meeting;
   D.   Within twenty (20) days after receipt of an application the director
shall apprise an applicant in writing his reasons for refusing a permit, and
any aggrieved person shall have the right to appeal in writing within ten (10)
days to the parks and recreation commission, which shall consider the
application. Any aggrieved person shall have the right to appeal a parks and
recreation commission decision in writing within ten (10) days to the city
council. The decision of the city council shall be final;
   E.   A permittee shall be bound by all park rules and regulations and all
applicable ordinances fully as though the same were inserted in said permits;
   F.   The person or persons to whom a permit is issued shall be liable for
any loss, damage or injury sustained by any person whatever by reason of the
negligence of the person or persons to whom such permit shall have been issued;
   G.   The director shall have the authority to revoke a permit upon a finding
of violation of any rule or ordinance, or upon good cause shown. (Ord. 05-899)
3-5E-3: PUBLIC STORAGE:
The parks and recreation director is hereby authorized to provide on an as
available basis storage for private personal property belonging to permittee
groups used in connection with use of park facilities, but any personal
property so stored shall be without liability of the city for any loss or
damage which may occur. (Ord. 05-899)
3-5E-4: ENFORCEMENT:
The director and park attendants shall, in connection with their duties imposed
by law, diligently enforce the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 05-899)
3-5E-5: EJECTMENT:
The director and any park attendant shall have the authority to eject from the
park any person acting in violation of this chapter. (Ord. 05-899)
3-5E-6: SEIZURE OF PROPERTY:
The director and any park attendant shall have the authority to seize and
confiscate any property, thing or device in the park or used in violation of
this chapter. (Ord. 05-899)
3-5E-7: RESERVED:
(Ord. 98-816)
3-5E-8: LOITERING:
No person shall enter or remain in any public park or recreation area within
the city at anytime between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and six
o'clock (6:00) A.M., except as authorized by the parks and recreation director
under section
3-5E-0 of this article. No person shall loiter outside of a recreation center
while an activity is conducted therein as to which such person is not eligible
to participate. (Ord. 05-899)
3-5E-9: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
All persons entering a city park, playground, building, facility, court, water
area or sports field shall adhere to all rules and regulations, whether posted
or not, governing the use of said area, and such supplementary regulations as
may be issued subsequently by the director. The first violation by any person
of any rule or regulation shall be deemed an infraction; and subsequent
violation shall be deemed a misdemeanor punishable in the manner provided in
this code. (Ord. 05-899)
3-5E-10: TEMPORARY EXCLUSION OF VIOLATORS:
   A.   Permission to be within the limits of any park or to use any
facilities, is conditioned on persons complying with all applicable provisions
of this Chapter or any other laws, ordinances, rules, or regulations applicable
to the City's parks. A violation of any provision of this Chapter or of any
order, rule, or regulation authorized by this Chapter, or of any other
applicable law, ordinance, rule, or regulation will result in the person in
violation thereof being a trespasser, and the Director, an attendant, or any
peace and/or code enforcement officer ("Enforcement Official"), may remove or
exclude the person from a park in accordance with this Section in addition to
any other remedy or penalty.
   B.   Nothing in this section will be construed to authorize the removal or
exclusion of any person lawfully engaged in any constitutionally protected
activity. However, a person lawfully exercising these protected rights but who
commits an act that is not protected can be subject to removal or exclusion.
      1.   For the purposes of this section, removal is an order given by the
Enforcement Official, directing a person to immediately leave a park and not
return for the remainder of the day.
      2.   For the purposes of this section, exclusion is an order given by the
Enforcement Official, directing a person to immediately leave a park and not
return for the period of days specified in this section.
      3.   Before issuing an exclusion order, the person will be given a verbal
or written warning describing the conduct giving rise to the exclusion and a
reasonable opportunity to stop the conduct. An exclusion order will not be
issued if the person promptly complies with the direction and stops the
conduct. A warning is not required before issuing an exclusion order where the
behavior, conduct, or activity constitutes one or more of the following:
         a.    A felony or misdemeanor;
         b.   Obscene, violent, riotous conduct, hunting and/or possession of
weapons in violation of
3-5B-7 and/or
3-5D-4, hitching of animals, feeding animals, pollution of waters, dumping of
refuse and trash in violation of 3-5B estimated to cost one thousand dollars
($1,000) or more to clean up; and possession or setting off of firecrackers,
torpedoes, rockets or other fireworks or explosives of inflammable material in
violation of
3-5D-9;
         c.   Lighting or maintaining a fire in any park;
         d.   Conduct resulting in property damage estimated to be one thousand
dollars ($1,000) or more;
         e.    Dangerous or threatening behavior. Behavior is dangerous or
threatening if a reasonable person exposed to or experiencing such behavior
could believe that the person would be in imminent danger of physical harm.
Actual bodily harm is not required; and
         f.   Conduct for which a documented prior exclusion order has been
issued and not overturned on appeal.
      4.   Written notice of the exclusion order will be provided to any person
excluded. The notice will briefly describe the conduct and list the provision
of law that is the basis for the exclusion; the date, length, and place of
exclusion; a description of the process for filing an appeal; and a warning of
the consequences for failure to comply. The exclusion notice shall be signed by
the issuing Enforcement Official. The Director may use reasonable discretion to
determine multiple park facilities for the exclusion.
      5.   The exclusion order will be effective for thirty (30) days, except
as stated in paragraph B.6, during which time the violator may not return to
the listed park or park facilities. A second exclusion order for the same
violator, whether or not issued within the same park, that is issued within a
twelve (12)-month period will be effective for sixty (60) days. Additional
exclusion orders issued within a twelve (12)-month period of the second
exclusion order will be effective for ninety (90) days. No exclusion order
overturned on appeal will be counted.
      6.   The duration of the first exclusion shall be sixty (60) days if one
or more of the following occur:
         a.    A felony;
         b.   Property damage estimated to be one thousand dollars ($1,000) or
more; or
         c.   Dangerous or threatening behavior as defined in this Section.
      A second exclusion for a person described in this Subsection B.6 within a
twelve (12)-month period will be effective for one hundred and twenty (120)
days. Additional exclusion orders issued within twelve (12)-month period of the
second exclusion order for a person described in this Subsection will be
effective for one hundred and eighty (180) days. No exclusion order overturned
on appeal will be counted.
   C.   Appeal.
      1.   The City Manager shall serve as hearing officer on appeal and shall
conduct a fair and impartial hearing.
      2.   A person issued a notice of exclusion may appeal the notice within
five (5) days by filing a written appeal with the City Manager. The written
appeal shall include the exclusion notice number, reason(s) the person should
not have been excluded, and a phone number, address or email at which the City
may serve the cited individual a response to their request. Filing an appeal
does not preclude the issuance of an exclusion order for a new violation of
this Section.
      3.   Upon receipt of a timely and complete notice of appeal, the
exclusion order will be stayed. The City Manager will set an administrative
hearing that shall be de novo. The exclusion order will be upheld if the City
Manager determines by a preponderance of evidence that the person committed the
act for which the person was excluded, and the exclusion is otherwise in
accordance with the law. Evidence may include, without limitation, witness
testimony, documents, or other similar evidence. In lieu of personally
appearing at an administrative hearing, the cited individual may request that
the City Manager decide the matter based on the notice, the written appeal, and
any other documentary evidence submitted prior to the hearing date.
      4.   The City Manager shall issue a written decision responding to the
appeal within five (5) business days. The decision of the City Manager on
appeal shall be final.
   D.   The City shall maintain an accurate database of those persons excluded
from parks or park facilities by their respective employees.
   E.   Notwithstanding Section
3-5E-9, a violation of a removal or exclusion order is unlawful and may be
charged as a misdemeanor, as provided by Section 1.2.0. Nothing in this Section
limits the authority of the City to obtain an injunction prohibiting or
restricting park access by any person.
(Ord. 98-816; amd. Ord. 24-1074)
3-5E-11: PARK FACILITY UTILIZATION AND UTILITY FEES:
   A.   The city council shall establish fees for nonscheduled utilization of
park facilities and utility use. Such fees shall be set by city council
resolution in an amount not to exceed the actual cost incurred by the city of
reasonable estimated cost.
   B.   Park facilities shall include buildings, patio areas, playgrounds,
tennis courts, basketball courts, athletic fields, designated picnic areas,
vehicle parking lots and all open space within park boundaries.
   C.   Utilities shall include water, gas, electrical power, and operation of
lighting systems for patio areas, playgrounds, tennis courts, basketball
courts, athletic fields, designated picnic areas, vehicle parking lots and all
open space within park boundaries.
   D.   The director shall be responsible for fee collection and determining
the method of collection, which may include the installation of coin meters to
control the operation of utility systems. (Ord. 05-899)
CHAPTER 6
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
3-6-0: Adoption Of Los Angeles County Animal Control Ordinance
3-6-1: Definitions
3-6-2: Repeals To The Animal Control Ordinance
3-6-3: Amendment; License - Required - Fees And Other Charges
3-6-4: Amendment; Tag To Be Worn By Dog
3-6-5: Amendment; Microchipping Of Dogs Required
3-6-6: Amendment; Dogs - Running At Large Prohibited
3-6-7: Amendment; Nondomesticated Mammalian Predators
3-6-8: Amendment; Fees
3-6-9: Penalties
3-6-10: Severability
3-6-0: ADOPTION OF LOS ANGELES COUNTY ANIMAL CONTROL ORDINANCE:
   A.   Subject to the amendments contained in this chapter, divisions 1, 2,
and 3 of title 10 of the Los Angeles County code (“animals”), and any
subsequent amendments thereto, are hereby adopted and incorporated herein by
reference, and may be cited as the “animal control ordinance” of the city of
Temple City.
   B.   Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection A of this section, the
provisions of the animal control ordinance relating to mandatory microchipping
of dogs, and the mandatory spaying and neutering of dogs shall not become
operative until January 1, 2013.
   C.   In the event there are any inconsistencies between the animal control
ordinance and this chapter pertaining to animal control, the latter shall
prevail.
   D.   In the event there are any inconsistencies between the animal control
ordinance and the city’s zoning ordinance relating to animals, the latter shall
prevail.
   E.   At least one copy of the animal control ordinance shall be maintained
on file either in the office of the city clerk or the chief enforcement officer
of animal control for public inspection. (Ord. 12-956; amd. Ord. 22-1060)
3-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
Notwithstanding the definitions provided in chapter 10.08 of the animal control
ordinance, whenever any of the following names or terms is used in the animal
control ordinance and this chapter, each such name or term shall be deemed or
construed to have the meaning ascribed to it in this section as follows:
   BOARD OF SUPERVISORS: The city council of the city of Temple City.
   CITY: The city of Temple City.
   COUNTY OR COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES OR UNINCORPORATED TERRITORY OF LOS ANGELES
COUNTY: The city of Temple City.
   KENNEL: Any lot, building, structure, enclosure, or premises whereupon or
wherein four (4) or more dogs or cats, or any combination thereof, over four
(4) months of age are kept or maintained for any purpose, including places
where dogs are boarded, kept for sale, or kept for hire.
   OWNER: Any person who holds the license to the animal, or if the animal is
not licensed, the person legally entitled to possession of the animal, or any
person with primary responsibility for the care of the animal. An owner shall
also include any adult person who has possession of, or who exercises control
over, an animal. (Ord. 12-956)
3-6-2: REPEALS TO THE ANIMAL CONTROL ORDINANCE:
Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection
3-6-0A of this chapter, the following provisions of the animal control
ordinance are hereby repealed: section 10.04.060 ("penalty: general"); section
10.20.038 ("residential dogs and cats - limitations"); section 10.20.375
("penalty: spay and neuter"); chapter 10.37 ("potentially dangerous and vicious
dogs"); section 10.84.030 ("penalty: predator animals"). (Ord. 12-956)
3-6-3: AMENDMENT; LICENSE - REQUIRED - FEES AND OTHER CHARGES:
Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection
 3-6-0A of this chapter, section 10.20.030 of the animal control ordinance is
hereby amended to read as follows:
10.20.030 - Dog License - Required - Fees And Other Charges.
Every person owning or having custody or control of any dog over the age of
four months in the unincorporated territory of the county of Los Angeles shall
obtain an annual license from the director for each dog and shall pay the fee
for the licenses including delinquency charges and field enforcement fees as
set forth in sections 10.20.130 and 10.90.010. The owner or custodian of an
animal found unlicensed by a department employee in the field will be charged a
field enforcement fee.
(Ord. 12-956)
3-6-4: AMENDMENT; TAG TO BE WORN BY DOG:
Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection
3-6-0A of this chapter, section 10.20.180 of the animal control ordinance is
hereby amended to read as follows:
10.20.180 - Tag To Be Worn By Dog.
A license tag for an individual dog shall be securely affixed to a collar,
harness or other device which shall at all times be worn by such dog except
while such dog remains indoors or in any enclosed yard or pen.
(Ord. 12-956)
3-6-5: AMENDMENT; MICROCHIPPING OF DOGS REQUIRED:
Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection
3-6-0A of this chapter, section 10.20.185 of the animal control ordinance is
hereby amended to read as follows:
10.20.185 - Microchipping Of Dogs Required.
All dogs over the age of four months must be implanted with an identifying
microchip. The owner or custodian is required to provide the microchip number
to the department, and shall notify the department and the national registry
applicable to the implanted chip, of a change of ownership of the dog, or a
change of address or telephone number.
(Ord. 12-956; amd. Ord. 22-1060)
3-6-6: AMENDMENT; DOGS - RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED:
Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection
3-6-0A of this chapter, section 10.32.010 of the animal control ordinance is
hereby amended to read as follows:
10.32.010 - Dogs - Running At Large Prohibited - Exceptions.
   A.   No person owning or having charge, care, custody, or control of any dog
shall cause, permit, or allow such dog to be or to run at large upon any
highway, street, lane, alley, court, or other public place, or upon any private
property or premises other than those of the person owning or having charge,
care, custody, or control of such dog, in the city, unless such dog be
restrained by a substantial chain or leash not exceeding six feet (6') in
length and is in the charge, care, custody, or control of a competent person.
   B.   No person owning or having charge, care, custody, or control of any dog
shall cause, permit, or allow such dog to be or to run at large upon any
private property or premises in the city unless said property or premises is
enclosed by fencing or other structures sufficient to confine such dog to said
property.
   (Ord. 12-956)
3-6-7: AMENDMENT; NONDOMESTICATED MAMMALIAN PREDATORS:
Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection
3-6-0A of this chapter, section 10.84.010(B) of the animal control ordinance is
hereby amended to read as follows:
   B.      For purposes of this chapter:
      1.   "Rodent" includes, but is not limited to, ground squirrels;
      2.   "Non-domesticated" includes, but is not limited to, any animal that
has not been adapted to human living conditions and practical uses, any animal
that is not owned by a person, and any feral animal.
      3.   "Mammalian predators" include, but are not limited to, coyotes,
raccoons, foxes, opossums, and cats.
   (Ord. 12-956)
3-6-8: AMENDMENT; FEES:
Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection
3-6-0A of this chapter, section 10.90.010 of the animal control ordinance is
deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following:
10.90.010 - Fee Schedule.
   A.      The fees, costs, and charges to be paid for all services and
activities set forth in the animal control ordinance shall be established by
resolution of the city council.
   B.      The director may waive any fees in cases of undue hardship.
   (Ord. 12-956)
3-6-9: PENALTIES:
Any person violating or failing to comply with any provision, regulation, or
requirement of the animal control ordinance or of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor violation pursuant to section
1-2-0 of this code. (Ord. 12-956)
3-6-10: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this
chapter is declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be unconstitutional
or otherwise invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions of this chapter. The city council declares that it would
have adopted this chapter, and each section, subsection, sentence, clause,
phrase or portion thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more
sections, subsections, phrases, or portions be declared invalid or
unconstitutional. (Ord. 12-956)
CHAPTER 7
FIREARMS
SECTION:
3-7-0: Persons Under Age Eighteen, Firearm
3-7-1: Persons Under Age Eighteen, Ammunition
3-7-2: Persons Under Age Eighteen, Discharging Firearm
3-7-3: Other Persons Discharging Firearm
3-7-4: Arrows And Similar Missiles
3-7-5: Persons Under Age Eighteen, Authorized Use
3-7-6: Concealed Weapons
3-7-7: Confiscation Of Concealed Weapons
3-7-8: Approved Discharge
3-7-0: PERSONS UNDER AGE EIGHTEEN, FIREARM:
Except as otherwise provided in section
3-7-5 of this chapter, it shall be unlawful in the city for any person, firm or
corporation, to sell, give, lend or in any way furnish, or cause or permit to
be sold, given, lent or in any way furnished, to any person under the age of
eighteen (18) years, any gun, revolver, pistol, firearm, spring gun, air gun,
sling, slingshot or device designed or intended to discharge or capable of
discharging, any dangerous missile. (1960 Code)
3-7-1: PERSONS UNDER AGE EIGHTEEN, AMMUNITION:
Except as otherwise provided in section
3-7-5 of this chapter it shall be unlawful in the city, for any person, firm or
corporation, to sell, give, lend, or in any way furnish or cause or permit to
be sold, given, lent or in any way furnished, to any person under the age of
eighteen (18) years, any cartridge, shell, ammunition or device containing any
exploding substance, designed or intended to be used in or fired from, any gun,
revolver, pistol or firearm. (1960 Code)
3-7-2: PERSONS UNDER AGE EIGHTEEN, DISCHARGING FIREARM:
Except as otherwise provided in section
3-7-5 of this chapter it shall be unlawful in said city, for any person under
the age of eighteen (18) years to fire, discharge, shoot or operate, or to
assist or participate in the firing, discharging, shooting, or operating, or to
have in his or her possession, care, custody or control, any gun, revolver,
pistol, firearm, spring gun, air gun, sling, slingshot, or device designed, or
intended to discharge, or capable of discharging, any dangerous missile, or any
cartridge, shell, ammunition or device containing any exploding substance,
designed or intended to be used in or fired from any gun, revolver, pistol or
firearm. (1960 Code)
3-7-3: OTHER PERSONS DISCHARGING FIREARM:
Except as otherwise provided in sections
3-7-5 and
 3-7-8 of this chapter, it shall be unlawful in said city for any person to
fire, discharge, shoot or operate, or to assist or participate in the firing,
discharging, shooting, or operating of any gun, revolver, pistol, firearms,
spring gun, air gun, sling, slingshot, or device designed or intended to
discharge or capable of discharging any dangerous missile of any cartridge,
shell, ammunition, or device containing any exploding substance, designed or
intended to be used in or fired from any gun, revolver, pistol or firearm.
(1960 Code)
3-7-4: ARROWS AND SIMILAR MISSILES:
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, a person shall not within any
district or area described in this chapter shoot any arrow or similar missile
to be shot, and a person, firm or corporation shall not cause or permit any
arrow or similar missile to be shot at any place within two hundred (200) yards
of any public highway, private street used by the general public, recreational
area, park, riding and hiking trail, dwelling house, camp or place of human
habitation, except when the arrow is shot under the adult supervision of a
person connected with a responsible organization, as determined to be same by
the city manager of the city, and then any arrow shot shall be from and at all
times remains on or over, and lands upon private property, if all persons
occupying or having the right to occupy such private property or portion
thereof, consent thereto, and no arrow shall be shot anywhere unless said range
shall be at least two hundred feet (200') in length and fifty feet (50') in
width. (1960 Code)
3-7-5: PERSONS UNDER EIGHTEEN, AUTHORIZED USE:
Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed or construed to prohibit in said city
the selling, giving, lending or furnishing to any person under the age of
eighteen (18) years, upon the written consent of the parent or guardian of such
person, any article mentioned in sections
 3-7-0 and
 3-7-1 of this chapter; not to prohibit any such person under the age of
eighteen (18) years from having in his or her possession, care, custody or
control any article mentioned in section
3-7-2 of this chapter in the event that such possession, care, custody or
control of such article is had with the consent of the parent or guardian of
such person and is under the direct supervision and control of some adult
person; not to prohibit any such person under the age of eighteen (18) years
from firing, discharging, shooting or operating any article mentioned in
section
3-7-2 of this chapter when such person is accompanied by, and under the direct
care and control of, some adult person and is engaged in hunting any wild game
or predatory bird or animal which may be lawfully hunted and killed in said
city, or is lawfully engaged in shooting at any inanimate target, or
trapshooting device, while accompanied by and under the direct care and control
of some such adult person. (1960 Code)
3-7-6: CONCEALED WEAPONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person except a duly elected or appointed peace
officer to carry concealed upon or about his person any revolver, pistol,
dagger, dirk, slug or slingshot, billy or other deadly weapon or instrument
without first having obtained a written permit from the sheriff of the county
of Los Angeles. (1960 Code)
3-7-7: CONFISCATION OF CONCEALED WEAPONS:
All concealed weapons found on person violating the provisions of this chapter
shall upon conviction of said person be confiscated upon order of the court in
which said conviction has been had. (1960 Code)
3-7-8: APPROVED DISCHARGE:
This chapter, except as otherwise provided in this title, does not prohibit the
discharge of any rifle, shotgun, pistol, revolver or firearm of any kind, or
the shooting of any arrow or other missile when necessary so to do to protect
life or property, or to destroy or kill any predatory or dangerous animal, nor
does this chapter prohibit the discharge of any rifle, shotgun, pistol or
revolver at an approved firing range. An approved firing range is one which has
been certified as safe by the city council of the city. (1960 Code)
TITLE 4
LAW ENFORCEMENT
CHAPTER 1
UNLAWFUL CONDUCT
ARTICLE A. GENERAL CONDUCT
SECTION:
4-1A-0: Disorderly Conduct
4-1A-1: Unnecessary Noises
4-1A-2: Gates
4-1A-3: Aircraft
4-1A-4: Horses
4-1A-5: Illegal Dumping
4-1A-6: Flowing Mud Or Water On Highway
4-1A-7: Damaging Property
4-1A-8: False Reports
4-1A-9: Gate Crashing
4-1A-10: Lookouts
4-1A-11: Picking Flowers
4-1A-12: Smoking
4-1A-13: Throwing Missiles
4-1A-14: Unauthorized Removal, Use Or Possession Of Shopping Carts
4-1A-15: Possession Of Catalytic Converters
4-1A-16: Sleeping In Vehicles
4-1A-17: Urination And Defecation
4-1A-18: Trespassing
4-1A-19: Fighting
4-1A-0: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
No person shall engage in any disorderly or boisterous conduct, or disturb the
peace by assaulting, striking or fighting, or be found in an intoxicated or
drunken condition upon any premises within the city, or expose his person or
any part thereof in a lewd and offensive manner in any place in the city where
there are other persons to be offended or annoyed thereby, or to make in any
place, or suffer to be made on his premises or upon premises under his control,
any disorder or tumult, to the disturbance of the public peace, or utter in the
presence of two (2) or more persons, any bawdy, lewd or obscene words or
epithets or address another by any words, language or expressions having a
tendency to create a breach of the peace, or utter or use within the hearing of
one or more persons, any seditious language. (1960 Code)
4-1A-1: UNNECESSARY NOISES:
No person shall make, cause or suffer or permit to be made upon any premises,
owned, occupied or controlled by him any unnecessary noises or sounds which are
physically annoying to persons of ordinary sensitiveness or which are so harsh
or so prolonged or unnatural or unusual in their use, time or place as to
occasion physical discomfort to the inhabitants of any neighborhood. (1960
Code)
4-1A-2: GATES:
It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any gate in any fence in such a
manner that such gate may be opened outward over any portion of any public
highway open for either pedestrians or vehicular traffic. Furthermore, it shall
be unlawful to cause or permit any such gate in any fence to be or remain open
outward over any portion of any public highway open for either pedestrian or
vehicular traffic. (1960 Code)
4-1A-3: AIRCRAFT:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to drive, or cause to
be driven, or to conduct, or cause to be conducted any aircraft, balloon
airships or flying machines, in the air at a distance of less than one thousand
feet (1,000') from the ground except in case of emergency. (1960 Code)
4-1A-4: HORSES:
No person shall drive or ride any horse or other animal upon any public highway
or thoroughfare, in such a manner as to endanger the safety of persons on said
highways or thoroughfares. (1960 Code)
4-1A-5: ILLEGAL DUMPING:
No person shall place, deposit, throw or dump, or cause to be placed,
deposited, thrown or dumped, any garbage, swill, cans, bottles, papers, ashes,
dirt, sand, rock, cement, glass, metal, carcass of any dead animal, offal,
refuse, plants, cuttings or trash, or rubbish of any nature whatsoever, or any
nauseous, offensive matter in or upon any public or private road, highway,
street, alley, public way or any public or private property of any kind
whatsoever. (1960 Code)
4-1A-6: FLOWING MUD OR WATER ON HIGHWAY:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, to deposit, drain,
wash, allow to run or divert into or upon any public road, highway, street or
alley, drainage ditch, storm drain or flood control channel owned by or
controlled by any public agency within the city, any water, mud, sand, oil or
petroleum. (1960 Code)
4-1A-7: DAMAGING PROPERTY:
No person shall wilfully or maliciously break or destroy any window, window
sash, door, blind or pane of glass of any occupied or unoccupied house or
outhouse in the city or enter any unoccupied house or outhouse and commit any
nuisance therein or break, destroy or injure anything therein or any part of
said house or outhouse, or any fence, or improvement whatever, or aid, abet or
assist anyone to commit such nuisance or injure said property. (1960 Code)
4-1A-8: FALSE REPORTS:
No person shall inform or report to a peace officer that a crime has been
committed whether a felony or misdemeanor, unless he, in good faith, believes
that such crime has been committed. (1960 Code)
4-1A-9: GATE CRASHING:
No person, with intent gratuitously to avail himself of the entertainment or
recreation furnished or the privileges conferred therein, shall enter any
theater, stadium, athletic club, ballpark, golf course, golf club, tennis club
or other place of amusement, entertainment or recreation, for admission to
which an admission fee or membership fee is charged, without first paying such
admission fee or membership fee. Any person who is a bona fide guest of a
member of any club may enter such club according to the rules thereof. Any
person may enter any place which is within the purview of this section with the
consent of the owner or manager thereof. This section shall not be deemed to
apply to the entry into any such place by a law enforcement officer acting
within the scope and course of his official duties. (1960 Code)
4-1A-10: LOOKOUTS:
No person shall act as a lookout for a gambling game, house of prostitution or
other illegal act. (1960 Code)
4-1A-11: PICKING FLOWERS:
No person shall pick any flower or flowers growing in a public park or place of
the city, except by the express authorization of the superintendent thereof.
(1960 Code)
4-1A-12: SMOKING:
No person shall smoke or possess any burning cigarette, cigar, pipe, in a
polling place during an election. (1960 Code)
4-1A-13: THROWING MISSILES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to throw upon, along or across any public
highway, road, street, alley, sidewalk, any missile capable of causing personal
injury or damage to personal property at or toward any person or any vehicle.
(1960 Code)
4-1A-14: UNAUTHORIZED REMOVAL, USE OR POSSESSION OF SHOPPING CARTS:
Use of shopping carts shall be subject to the following provisions:
   A.   No person shall remove any shopping cart, shopping basket or other
similar device from the premises or parking area of any business establishment
if such shopping cart, basket or device has permanently affixed to it a sign
identifying it as belonging to the owner or operator or such business
establishment and a notification to the effect that such cart, basket or device
is not to be removed from the premises;
   B.   No person shall abandon or leave any such shopping cart, shopping
basket or other similar device which has been removed from the owners premises
upon any public street, alley, sidewalk, parkway or other public place, nor
upon any private property except that of the owner of such cart, basket or
device;
   C.   No person shall have in his possession any shopping cart, shopping
basket or other similar device which has been removed from the premises of any
business establishment operated by the owner of said cart, basket or device and
which has permanently affixed to it a sign identifying it as belonging to the
operator of a business establishment and a notification to the effect that such
cart, basket or device is not to be removed from the premises of said
establishment;
   D.   No person shall use any shopping cart, shopping basket or other similar
device for any purpose other than that intended by the owner of said cart,
basket or device;
   E.   No person shall alter, convert or tamper with any shopping cart,
shopping basket or other similar device or remove any part thereof. (1960 Code)
4-1A-15: POSSESSION OF CATALYTIC CONVERTERS:
   A.   It is unlawful to possess any catalytic converter that is not attached
to a vehicle unless the possessor has valid documentation or other proof to
verify they are in lawful possession of the catalytic converter.
   B.   For purposes of this section, "lawful possession" includes being the
lawful owner of the catalytic converter, the vehicle from which it came, or in
possession of the catalytic converter with the lawful owner's written consent.
It is not required to prove the catalytic converter was stolen to establish the
possession is not a "lawful possession."
   C.   For purposes of this section, "documentation or other proof" means
written document(s) that clearly identify the vehicle from which the catalytic
converter originated and includes but is not limited to the following document
types: bill of sale from the original owner identifying the catalytic
converter, documentation from an auto-body shop proving the owner relinquished
the catalytic converter to the auto-body shop, verifiable electronic
communication from the previous owner to the possessor relinquishing ownership
of the catalytic converter, vehicle registration associated with the catalytic
converter containing an etched associated license plate number or vehicle
identification number. The validity of documentation or other proof is based on
the totality of the circumstances.
   D.   Each and every violation of this chapter, including each catalytic
converter that is unlawfully possessed, shall constitute a separate violation,
a public nuisance, and shall be subject to all remedies and enforcement
measures authorized by this code.
(Ord. 24-1075)
4-1A-16: SLEEPING IN VEHICLES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle in any city owned
or operated parking lot, mall parking facility, or other place of public
ownership, including parks and school facilities, between the hours of three
o'clock (3:00) A.M. through five o'clock (5:00) A.M. for the purpose of
sleeping, eating or otherwise using such parked vehicle as a residence or for
uses unrelated to the primary purpose of vehicle parking.
(Ord. 81-500)
4-1A-17: URINATION AND DEFECATION:
It is unlawful for any person to urinate or defecate in a public place or
publicly owned property other than a restroom, or in a place open to public
view, or upon the private property of another without the consent of the owner
or person in lawful possession.
Any violation of this chapter is a public nuisance that may be abated by any
means provided in this Code, including administrative citations, civil action
and injunctive relief, and is also punishable as provided in
Chapter 1-2 of this Code.
(Ord. 24-1075)
4-1A-18: TRESPASSING:
   A.   No person shall remain upon any private property or business premises,
after being notified by the owner, owner's agent, lessee, or by a peace officer
acting at the request of any of the above to remove themselves and their
possessions therefrom. For purposes of this section a lessee includes a tenant
in lawful possession of real property and a licensee.
      1.   No person who, having been requested to leave private property in
the manner set forth above shall reenter the premises within twelve (12) hours
thereof without obtaining express permission from the party who requested him
to leave, or the lawful agent thereof.
   B.   No person, without permission from the owner, owner's agent, or lessee,
shall enter upon the private property or business premises after having been
notified by the owner, owner's agent, or lessee to keep off or keep away
therefrom.
   C.   No person shall enter or remain upon posted private property without
the permission of the owner, owner's agent, or lessee of such posted property
or premises.
   D.   No person shall enter or remain upon any city property, building, yard,
parking lot, or other city owned or operated facility except during business
hours, or upon request or invitation of any city employee or agent acting
within the capacity of a city employee or agent, or after being informed by any
city employee or a peace officer acting on behalf of the city to remove
themselves and their possessions therefrom.
   E.   Exceptions. This section shall not apply in any of the following
instances:
      1.   Where its application results in a violation of law or where
preempted by law;
      2.   Where its application would result in an interference with or
inhibition of lawful peaceful labor picketing or other lawful labor activities;
      3.   Where its application would result in an interference with or
inhibition of any other exercise of a constitutionally protected right of
freedom of speech such as (but not limited to) peaceful expressions of
political or religious opinions, not involving dangerous or hazardous personal
conduct;
      4.   Where the person who is in or upon another's private property or
business premises is there under a legal right, including but not limited to
landlord-tenant disputes, marital disputes, child custody disputes or
visitation disputes; or
      5.   Public camping, which is separately regulated by this code and State
law.
      6.   As used in this section, "posted property" means any property at
each corner of which, at each entrance to which, a sign is posted three feet
above grade and said sign is composed of wood, metal or other equally
substantial material, the face of which is not less than one square foot in
area, and upon which, in legible letters not less than one inch in height,
appear the words "PRIVATE PROPERTY - NO TRESPASS." In addition, the sign may
contain such other words as may be desired, indicating that trespassers are
subject to prosecution. Where the area of such property exceeds one acre, the
notice shall also be posted at multiple locations which are at intervals of not
more than three hundred feet along or near the boundaries thereof.
      7.   The owner or responsible party of real property located within the
city may request continuing enforcement of this section in their absence. Such
request shall be made in writing to the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Office
pursuant to that office's procedures.
      8.   Each and every violation of this section, shall constitute a
separate violation, a public nuisance, and shall be subject to all remedies and
enforcement measures authorized by this code.
(Ord. 24-1025)
4-1A-19: FIGHTING:
It is unlawful for any person to engage in any physical fight, disorderly
conduct, or altercation with any other person on any public property or upon
the premises of another within the city, while in immediate physical possession
or any concealed firearm, knife, dirk, bludgeon, or other weapon.
Each and every violation of this section, shall constitute a separate
violation, a public nuisance, and shall be subject to all remedies and
enforcement measures authorized by this code.
(Ord. 24-1025)
ARTICLE B. MINORS
SECTION:
4-1B-0: Definitions
4-1B-1: Offenses
4-1B-2: Defenses
4-1B-3: Enforcement
4-1B-0: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article the following terms shall be defined as set forth
herein:
   CURFEW HOURS: Ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. of any day until six o'clock (6:00)
A.M. the following day.
   EMERGENCY: An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state
that calls for immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of
life. The term includes, but is not limited to, a fire, a natural disaster, an
automobile accident, or any situation requiring immediate action to prevent
serious bodily injury or loss of life.
   ESTABLISHMENT: Any privately owned place of business to which the public is
invited, including, but not limited to, any place of amusement, entertainment,
or recreation.
   GUARDIAN: A. A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person
of a minor;
   B.   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by a
court; or
   C.   A person who is at least eighteen (18) years of age and authorized by a
parent or guardian to have the care and custody of a minor.
   MINOR: Any person under eighteen (18) years of age.
   PARENT: A person who is a natural parent, adoptive parent, or stepparent of
a minor.
   PUBLIC PLACE: Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways, and
the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities, and shops.
   SERIOUS BODILY INJURY: Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of
death or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement, or protracted loss
or impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ. (Ord. 97-810)
4-1B-1: OFFENSES:
A minor commits an offense by being present in any public place or on the
premises of any establishment within the city during curfew hours.
A parent or guardian of a minor commits an offense by an act or an omission, or
by threats, or other form of coercion contributes to, or induces or attempts to
induce any dependent child or ward of such person to fail or refuse to conform
to any lawful order of a law enforcement officer, or to conform to the
requirements of this code concerning curfew, shall be subject to a civil
penalty. For purposes of this section, a parent or legal guardian to any person
under the age of eighteen (18) years shall have the duty to exercise reasonable
care, supervision, protection and control over their minor child or ward. (Ord.
97-810)
4-1B-2: DEFENSES:
It is a defense to prosecution under section
4-1B-1 of this article that the minor was:
   A.   Accompanied by the minor's parent or guardian;
   B.   On an errand at the direction of the minor's parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
   C.   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
   D.   Engaged in a lawful employment activity, or going to or returning home
from a lawful employment activity, without detour or stop;
   E.   Acting in response to an emergency;
   F.   On the sidewalk abutting the minor's residence or abutting the
residence which is immediately adjacent to the minor's residence;
   G.   Attending an official school, cultural, religious, sports, amusement,
entertainment, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and
sponsored by the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that
takes responsibility for the minor;
   H.   Exercising first amendment rights protected by the United States
constitution as it pertains to minors, such as the free exercise of religious,
freedom of speech, and the right of assembly, but subject to all other
applicable laws, rules, and regulations; or
   I.   Emancipated in accordance with applicable state law. (Ord. 97-810)
4-1B-3: ENFORCEMENT:
Before taking action under section
4-1B-1 of this article a law enforcement officer shall ask the apparent
offender's age and reason for being in the public place or on the premises of
the establishment during curfew hours. The officer shall not issue a citation
or make an arrest under this section unless the officer reasonably believes
that an offense has occurred and that, based on any response and other
circumstances, no defense in section
4-1B-2 of this article is present or applicable.
Any person who violates the provision of section
4-1B-1 of this article shall be liable for a civil penalty not to exceed two
thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) for each violation, which shall be
assessed and recovered by the civil action brought in the name of the city. In
any action brought pursuant to this section, penalties collected shall be paid
to the treasurer of this city.
The remedies provided in this section are in addition to the remedies and
penalties available under this code and all other laws of this state. (Ord. 97-
810)
ARTICLE C. PUBLIC GATHERINGS
SECTION:
4-1C-0: Closing Hours, Amusement And Entertainment Places
4-1C-1: Special Permission
4-1C-2: Application To City Council
4-1C-3: Residential Parties; Publicized Commercialism Prohibited
4-1C-0: CLOSING HOURS, AMUSEMENT AND ENTERTAINMENT PLACES:
No person shall carry on or assist in carrying on any amusement or
entertainment to which the public is invited, or in which the public may
participate, at any time between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and six
o'clock (6:00) A.M. (1960 Code)
4-1C-1: SPECIAL PERMISSION:
Any person who shall desire to carry on or conduct such amusement or
entertainment for one night only, during the hours prohibited by the foregoing
section, may apply in writing to the sheriff for permission so to do and the
sheriff may grant such permission to such applicant when in his discretion the
conduct of such amusement or entertainment at such time shall not be
detrimental to the public health, safety, morals or welfare. The sheriff shall
either grant or deny such application within three (3) days after such
application has been presented to him and if he does not grant the same within
such period such application shall be deemed to have been denied, except as
herein provided. (1960 Code)
4-1C-2: APPLICATION TO CITY COUNCIL:
Any person who shall desire to carry on or conduct any such amusement or
entertainment, during the hours prohibited by the foregoing sections and for a
longer period than one night, shall file a written application therefor with
the city clerk for presentation to the city council. Such application shall
contain a detailed statement of the type of amusement or entertainment which
the applicant desires to carry on or conduct and a statement of the reasons
which in his opinion warrant the granting the same. Such application shall be
filed with the city clerk at least five (5) days prior to the date upon which
the applicant desires the granting of such permission and five (5) days prior
to the meeting of the city council next succeeding the filing of such
application. Thereupon the city clerk shall refer said application to the
sheriff for investigation and his recommendation thereon. The city council may
grant such permission to such applicant when in its discretion the nightly
conduct of such amusement or entertainment will not be detrimental to the
public health, safety, morals or welfare. (1960 Code)
4-1C-3: RESIDENTIAL PARTIES; PUBLICIZED COMMERCIALISM PROHIBITED:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section:
   COMMERCIAL: The suggestion or request of a monetary charge, or a request for
a donation, for admission.
   PARTY: A group of persons meeting together for social, recreational or
amusement purposes, but excluding meetings for political, charitable or
religious purposes.
   PUBLICIZED: An open invitation circulated by flier or advertised by
publication, posting or distribution in or about public places suggesting
unlimited or unreserved attendance.
   RESIDENTIAL ZONE: All of the residential zones as defined and zoned in the
zoning code of this city.
   B.   Party Prohibited: It shall be unlawful to host, conduct or permit a
publicized commercial party in a residential zone of this city.
   C.   Penalty: Violation of this section is punishable by a fine not to
exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) or by imprisonment for not to exceed six
(6) months, or by both such fine and imprisonment. (1960 Code)
ARTICLE D. SEXUAL CONDUCT
SECTION:
4-1D-0: Prohibitions; Waiters, Waitresses, Entertainers
4-1D-1: Counseling Or Assisting
4-1D-2: Employment Or Payment Not Necessary For Offense
4-1D-3: Prohibitions; Public Performance
4-1D-4: Counseling Or Assisting
4-1D-5: Exemption Of Theatrical Establishments
4-1D-0: PROHIBITIONS; WAITERS, WAITRESSES, ENTERTAINERS:
Every person is guilty of a misdemeanor who, while acting as a waiter, waitress
or entertainer in an establishment which serves food, beverages, or food and
beverages, including, but not limited to, alcoholic beverages, for consumption
on the premises of such establishment:
   A.   Exposes his or her genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, natal cleft,
perineum, anal region; or
   B.   Exposes any device, costume or covering which gives the appearance of
or simulates the genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, natal cleft, perineum, anal
region or pubic region; or
   C.   Exposes any portion of the female breast at or below the areola
thereof. (1960 Code)
4-1D-1: COUNSELING OR ASSISTING:
Every person is guilty of a misdemeanor who causes, permits, procures, counsels
or assists any person to expose or simulate exposure as prohibited in section
4-1D-0 of this article. (1960 Code)
4-1D-2: EMPLOYMENT OR PAYMENT NOT NECESSARY FOR OFFENSE:
A person shall be deemed to be a waiter, waitress or entertainer if such person
acts in that capacity without regard to whether or not such person is paid any
compensation by the management of the establishment in which the activity is
performed. (1960 Code)
4-1D-3: PROHIBITIONS; PUBLIC PERFORMANCE:
Every person is guilty of a misdemeanor who, while participating in any live
act, demonstration or exhibition in any public place, place open to the public
or place open to public view:
   A.   Expose his or her genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, natal cleft,
perineum, anal region or pubic hair region; or
   B.   Exposes any device, costume or covering which gives the appearance of
or simulates the genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, natal cleft, perineum, anal
region or pubic hair region; or
   C.   Exposes any portion of the female breast at or below the areola
thereof. (1960 Code)
4-1D-4: COUNSELING OR ASSISTING:
Every person is guilty of a misdemeanor who causes, permits, procures, counsels
or assists any person to expose or simulate exposure as prohibited in section
4-1D-3 of this article. (1960 Code)
4-1D-5: EXEMPTION OF THEATRICAL ESTABLISHMENTS:
The provisions of sections
4-1D-0 through
 4-1D-4 of this article shall not apply to a theater, concert hall or similar
establishment which is primarily devoted to theatrical performances. (1960
Code)
ARTICLE E. GAMBLING
SECTION:
4-1E-0: Gambling Prohibited
4-1E-1: State Law, Games Prohibited
4-1E-2: Participation
4-1E-3: Control Of Prohibited Games
4-1E-4: Betting On Games
4-1E-5: Gambling Information
4-1E-6: Horserace Information
4-1E-7: Poolroom
4-1E-8: Games Prohibited
4-1E-9: Sale And Display Of Narcotic And Other Paraphernalia
4-1E-0: GAMBLING PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful in the city for any person, firm, corporation or
association, either as owner, lessee, manager, employee, agent or servant to
conduct manage, carry on, maintain, operate, open, deal or deal in or to cause
or permit to be conducted, managed, carried on, maintained, operated, opened,
dealt or dealt in, any game, operation or transaction wherein any prize, gift,
rebate, compensation, reward, award, payment or gratuity, consisting of any
money, check, token, credit, goods, wares, merchandise, property or thing of
value, is or is to be given, awarded or delivered, either directly or
indirectly, and wherein chance is a determining factor or is any determining
factor of the result of such game, operation or transaction, which game,
operation or transaction is conducted, carried on, or maintained, operated or
played by the throwing, tossing, dropping, depositing or placing of any ball,
marker, object, thing or substance into any perforation, hole or indentation in
or upon any surface, receptacle, container, object or thing having marked,
designated or identified thereon by or with any figure, number, character,
symbol, letter, design or mark of any kind, or by selecting, designating,
turning, indicating, choosing or projecting of any such figure, number,
character, symbol, letter design or mark of any device, apparatus or equipment,
or by any means or in any manner, or by drawing, selecting, choosing or
removing from any receptacle or container of any ball, disk, object, substance
or material marked, designated or identified by or with any figure, number,
character, symbol, letter, design or mark hereinabove referred to,
corresponding to, duplicating, referring to or relating to, in whole or in
part, directly or indirectly, any figure, number, character, symbol letter,
design or mark upon any card, paper, board, fabric, surface, object, substance
or thing, held, used, operated or maintained by any player or participant
therein or by any person where, by any predetermined or prearranged, or by any
rule, method, scheme, design or procedure any person is found, declared or
determined to be, or is or is to be, the winner, donee, recipient or taker of
such prize, gift, rebate, compensation, reward, award, payment or gratuity, in
the event that any such player or participant pays, deposits, expends, gives or
pledges, either directly or indirectly or agrees, promises or intends to pay,
deposit, expend, give or pledge, either directly or indirectly, any money,
check credit, property or thing of value or makes or agrees to make any
purchase for the privilege of playing or participating therein or of gaining
admission to the place or premises where such game, operation or transaction is
or is to be played, conducted, carried on, maintained or operated, or to any
place or premises. (1960 Code)
4-1E-1: STATE LAW, GAMES PROHIBITED:
Provided, however, that no provision of this article shall be deemed or
construed as prohibiting any act made unlawful by the provisions of section 320
or 330 of the Penal Code, or of any other code section or general law of the
state of California, it being the intent of the city council to prohibit by
this article all games, operations or transaction herein described, not
prohibited by the provisions of any general law of this state, including all
games, operations or transactions for profit commonly known as keno, tango,
movie tango, bingo, bean sill ball, fortune, quintain, fascination or
inspiration, and all games, operations or transactions similar thereto under
whatever name they may be designated. (1960 Code)
4-1E-2: PARTICIPATION:
It shall be unlawful in the city for any person to participate in play, play in
or engage in, either directly or indirectly, any game, operation or transaction
prohibited by the provisions of sections
 4-1E-0 and
 4-1E-1 of this article. (1960 Code)
4-1E-3: CONTROL OF PROHIBITED GAMES:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation or association,
owning, leasing, managing, controlling or having any interest in any property
or premises lying within the city to cause or permit the maintenance or
operation in or on such property or premises, having knowledge, or after
reasonable notice, of the existence thereof, of any game, operation or
transaction declared by the provisions of sections
 4-1E-0 and
4-1E-1 of this article to be unlawful. (1960 Code)
4-1E-4: BETTING ON GAMES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to deal, play, carry on, open or conduct
any game of chance played with cards, dice, or any other device, for money,
checks, credit or thing of value; and no person shall bet at any of said
prohibited games. There shall be excepted from the effect of this section, but
not from the effects of Penal Code section 330 or any other state proscription,
occasional private games played exclusively for social purposes in a private
home, provided such games are not conducted with any aspect or manifestation of
commercialism, and with respect to which there is no promoter, house charge,
advertising, promotion or participation by the public. (1960 Code)
4-1E-5: GAMBLING INFORMATION:
No person, either as principal agent, employee or otherwise shall let or lease
any telegraph or telephone line or wire knowing that it is to be used for the
purpose of conducting or carrying on a poolroom, or for the purpose of
conducting the business of making books or selling pools on races or other
contests, or of betting or laying of wagers upon the result of any race or
contest. And no person shall transmit any message over any telephone or
telegraph line or wire owned, controlled or leased by any person engaged in
conducting or carrying on a poolroom or in conducting the business of making
books or selling pools on races or other contests, or of betting or laying of
wagers upon the result of any race or contest, knowing that such message is to
be used in conducting or carrying on such poolroom or business. (1960 Code)
4-1E-6: HORSERACE INFORMATION:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to have in his or its
possession in the city any written or printed form, chart, table, list, sheet,
circular or publication of any kind, giving or purporting to give, or
representing as giving, any list or probable or possible list, of entries for
any horserace or other contest thereafter anywhere to take place or which is
anywhere taking place, if there be written or printed or published as part
thereof, or in connection therewith, or in any other publication, printing or
writing accompanying the same or referring thereto or connected therewith, any
tip, information, prediction or selection of or advice as to or any key, cipher
or cryptogram indicating, containing or giving any tip, information,
publication or selection of or advice as to the winner, probable winner, or a
loser or probable loser, or the result or probable result of any such race or
other contest or the standing or probable standing of any horse or other
contestant therein, or any statement as to, or comment upon, or reference to,
the form, condition or standing of any horse or other contestant, or the
actual, probable or possible state, past, present or future of the betting,
wagering of odds upon or against any horse or other contestant named in such
list, or probable or possible list of entries unless the names of such horses
or other contestants shall be arranged in such list, or probable or possible
list, in alphabetical order and shall be printed in type of the same size and
face and of identical appearance, and shall all be printed flush with the left
side of the column in which the same are printed or all in equal distance
therefrom. (1960 Code)
4-1E-7: POOLROOM:
For the purposes of this article a "poolroom" is defined to be a room or place
where betting or laying of wagers upon the result of races or contests is
carried on as a business. (1960 Code)
4-1E-8: GAMES PROHIBITED:
A person shall not:
   A.   Deal, play, carry on or conduct:
      1.   Any game where players bet or wager money, checks, credits or other
things of value against each other; or
      2.   Any game of chance for money, checks, credits or other things of
value.
   B.   Bet or wager at or on any such game.
   C.   Permit any game prohibited by subsection A or B of this section to be
played, conducted or dealt in any house or other premises owned by, rented by
or in lawful possession of such person.
Provided, however, that no provision of this section shall be deemed or
construed as prohibiting any act made unlawful by the provision of sections
320, 320a, 330 or 3371 of the Penal Code, or of any other code section or
general law of the state of California, it being the intent of the city council
to prohibit by this section all gambling herein described, not otherwise
prohibited by the provisions of any law of this state. (1960 Code)
4-1E-9: SALE AND DISPLAY OF NARCOTIC AND OTHER PARAPHERNALIA:
   A.   Minors: No owner, manager, proprietor or other person in charge of any
room in any place of business selling or displaying for the purpose of sale,
any device, contrivance, instrument of paraphernalia for smoking or injecting,
or consuming marijuana, hashish, PCP, or any controlled substance, as defined
in the Health And Safety Code of the state of California, other than
prescription drugs and devices to ingest or inject prescription drugs, as well
as roach clips, and cigarette papers and rollers designed for the smoking of
the foregoing, shall allow or permit any person under the age of eighteen (18)
years to be, remain in, enter or visit such room unless such minor person is
accompanied by one of his or her parents, or by his or her legal guardian.
   B.   Minors; Excluded: A person under the age of eighteen (18) years shall
not be, remain in, enter or visit any room in any place used for the sale, or
displaying for sale, devices, contrivances, instruments or paraphernalia for
smoking or injecting marijuana, hashish, PCP or any controlled substance, other
than prescription drugs and devices to ingest or inject prescription drugs,
including roach clips, and cigarette papers and rollers designed and used for
smoking the foregoing, unless such person is accompanied by one of his or her
parents, or his or her legal guardian.
   C.   Sale And Display Rooms: A person shall not maintain in any place of
business to which the public is invited the display for sale, or the offering
to sell, of devices, contrivances, instruments or paraphernalia for smoking or
injecting marijuana, hashish, PCP, or any controlled substance, other than
prescription drugs and devices to ingest or inject prescription drugs,
including roach clips and cigarette papers and roller designed and used for
smoking the foregoing, unless within a separate room or enclosure to which
minors not accompanied by a parent or legal guardian are excluded. Each
entrance to such a room shall be signposted in reasonably visible and legible
words to the effect that narcotic paraphernalia are being offered for sale in
such a room, and minors unless accompanied by a parent or legal guardian are
excluded.
   D.   Minors; Nuisance: The distribution or possession for the purpose of
sale, exhibition or display in any place of business from which minors are not
excluded as set forth in this section, and where devices, contrivances,
instruments or paraphernalia for smoking or injecting marijuana, hashish, PCP
or any controlled substance, other than prescription drugs or devices to ingest
or inject prescription drugs, including roach clips and cigarette papers and
rollers designed and used for smoking the foregoing, is hereby declared to be a
public nuisance, and may be abated pursuant to the provisions of section 731 of
the Code Of Civil Procedure of the state of California. This remedy is in
addition to any other remedy provided by law, including the penalty provisions
applicable for violation of the terms and provisions of this code. (1960 Code)
ARTICLE F. BINGO GAMES
SECTION:
4-1F-0: Bingo Authorized
4-1F-1: Definitions
4-1F-2: License Required
4-1F-3: Conditions Applicable To All Bingo Games
4-1F-4: Conditions Applicable To On Site Bingo
4-1F-5: Conditions Applicable To Remote Caller Bingo
4-1F-6: Penalties And Enforcement
4-1F-0: BINGO AUTHORIZED:
Pursuant to the authority granted by section 19 of article IV of the California
constitution and sections 326.3 through 326.5 of the California Penal Code, the
city hereby authorizes bingo games to be conducted within the city consistent
with the provisions of this article. The provisions of this article shall be
interpreted to be consistent with sections 326.3 through 326.5 of the
California Penal Code. To the extent there are any inconsistencies, sections
326.3 through 326.5 of the California Penal Code shall prevail. (Ord. 14-997)
4-1F-1: DEFINITIONS:
Words and phrases used herein shall be interpreted as set forth in this
section.
   BINGO: Game of chance in which prizes are awarded on the basis of designated
numbers or symbols that are marked or covered by the player on a tangible card
in the player's possession and that conform to numbers or symbols, selected at
random and announced by a live caller.
   CARD MINDING DEVICES: Handheld, portable devices to assist in monitoring the
numbers or symbols announced by a live caller as those numbers or symbols are
called in a live game.
   DEPARTMENT: The department of justice.
ON SITE BINGO: A bingo game where the live caller is physically present at the
same location as all of the bingo players.
   PERSON: Includes a natural person, corporation, limited liability company,
partnership, trust, joint venture, association, or any other business
organization.
   REMOTE CALLER BINGO: A bingo game in which the numbers or symbols on
randomly drawn plastic balls are announced by a natural person present at the
site at which the live game is conducted, and the organization conducting the
bingo game uses audio and video technology to link any of its in state
facilities for the purpose of transmitting the remote calling of a live bingo
game from a single location to multiple locations owned, leased, or rented by
that organization, or as described in subdivision (o) of Penal Code section
326.3. (Ord. 14-997)
4-1F-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   License Required: A license from the city is required to conduct a
bingo game within the city. No person shall conduct a bingo game within the
city without a license from the city.
   B.   Eligibility For License: The following organizations are eligible to
obtain a bingo license from the city:
      1.   An organization exempt from the payment of the taxes imposed under
the corporation tax law by section 23701a, 23701b, 23701d, 23701e, 23701f,
23701g, 23701k, 23701l, or 23701w of the Revenue And Taxation Code.
      2.   A mobilehome park association of a mobilehome park that is situated
in the city of Temple City.
      3.   Senior citizen organizations.
      4.   Charitable organizations affiliated with a school district.
   C.   Additional Eligibility Criteria For Remote Caller Bingo License: If an
organization eligible for a license under subsection B of this section seeks a
license to conduct remote caller bingo, the organization must also meet the
following requirements to be eligible for a license:
      1.   The organization has been incorporated or in existence for three (3)
years or more.
      2.   The operation of bingo is not the primary purpose for which the
organization is formed.
   D.   Application: The application shall be in a form prescribed by the city
and shall be accompanied by a fifty dollar ($50.00) nonrefundable license fee.
The city shall require the applicant to provide any such information and
documentation as deemed necessary by the city to verify the applicant's
eligibility for a bingo license.
   E.   Issuance And Term Of License: The license shall not be issued until the
city has verified the facts stated in the application and determined that the
applicant is qualified. A license issued pursuant to this section shall be
valid until the end of the calendar year, at which time the license shall
expire. A new license shall only be obtained upon filing a new application and
payment of the license fee.
   F.   Denial Of License: If a license application is denied, the applicant
will be refunded half of the license fee.
   G.   Revocation Of License: The fact that a license has been issued to an
applicant creates no vested right on the part of the licensee to continue to
conduct bingo games within the city. Any violation of any of the provisions of
this article or of Penal Code sections 326.3 through 326.5, inclusive, shall
constitute grounds for revocation of a license to conduct a bingo game and may
further constitute grounds for the denial to the applicant or licensee of any
future license to conduct additional bingo games within the city. At the
request of the organization, the city council shall hold a public hearing
before revoking any license issued pursuant to this article. (Ord. 14-997)
4-1F-3: CONDITIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL BINGO GAMES:
   A.   Use Of Proceeds: All proceeds from bingo games shall be kept in a
special fund or account and shall not be commingled with any other funds. The
proceeds of bingo games shall only be used for charitable purposes, except as
follows:
      1.   The proceeds may be used for prizes.
      2.   Up to twenty percent (20%) of the proceeds before the deduction for
prizes or two thousand dollars ($2,000.00), whichever is less, may be used for
the rental of property and for overhead.
      3.   The proceeds may be used to pay license fees.
   B.   Minors Prohibited: Minors shall not be allowed to participate in any
bingo game.
   C.   Location Of Games: An organization licensed to conduct bingo games
shall conduct a bingo game only on property owned or leased by it, or property
whose use is donated to the organization, and which property is used by that
organization for an office or for performance of the purposes for which the
organization is organized. Nothing in this subdivision shall be construed to
require that the property owned or leased by, or whose use is donated to, the
organization be used or leased exclusively by, or donated exclusively to, that
organization.
   D.   Public Participation: All bingo games shall be open to the public, not
just to the members of the authorized organization. A person shall not be
allowed to participate in a bingo game unless the person is physically present
at the time and place where the bingo game is being conducted.
   E.   Staffing: A bingo game shall be operated and staffed only by members of
the authorized organization that organized it. Only the organization authorized
to conduct a bingo game shall operate such a game, or participate in the
promotion, supervision, or any other phase of a bingo game. This subdivision
does not preclude the employment of security personnel who are not members of
the authorized organization at a bingo game by the organization conducting the
game.
   F.   Third Party Interests: No individual, corporation, partnership, or
other legal entity, except the organization authorized to conduct a bingo game,
shall hold a financial interest in the conduct of a bingo game.
   G.   Card Minding Devices: Players may use card minding devices subject to
the following provisions:
      1.   Card minding devices may not be used in connection with any bingo
game where a bingo card may be sold or distributed after the start of the ball
draw for that game.
      2.   The card minding device has been approved by the department as
meeting the requirements of Penal Code section 326.5(p).
   H.   Signs: No signs shall be permitted advertising any bingo game at any
location, except one sign on the site not to exceed six (6) square feet only
during the day of the game.
   I.   Frequency And Hours: No location shall be used to, nor shall any
licensee, conduct bingo games more often than one day per week. All games shall
be conducted only between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. to eleven fifty
nine o'clock (11:59) P.M.
   J.   No Payment Of Wages: No person shall receive or pay a profit, wage, or
salary from any bingo game, except as allowed by Penal Code sections 326.3(d)
and 326.5(b). (Ord. 14-997)
4-1F-4: CONDITIONS APPLICABLE TO ON SITE BINGO:
The total value of prizes awarded during the conduct of any bingo game shall
not exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) in cash or kind, or both, for each
separate game which is held. (Ord. 14-997)
4-1F-5: CONDITIONS APPLICABLE TO REMOTE CALLER BINGO:
   A.   Maximum Participation: No more than seven hundred fifty (750) people
may participate in a remote caller bingo game in a single location, except as
authorized by Penal Code section 326.3(j)(3) for remote caller bingo games for
the relief of victims of a disaster or catastrophe.
   B.   Notice To Police: The organization operating a remote caller bingo site
within the city shall provide the city's police department at least thirty (30)
days' written notice of its intent to conduct a remote caller bingo game. The
notice shall contain all of the information required by Penal Code section
326.3(j)(4).
   C.   Cosponsors: An organization shall not cosponsor a remote caller bingo
game with one or more other organizations except as allowed under Penal Code
section 326.3(o). All cosponsors must have a bingo license from the city.
   D.   Cash Prizes: The value of prizes awarded during the conduct of any
remote caller bingo game shall not exceed thirty seven percent (37%) of the
gross receipts for that game. Gross receipts shall be calculated in accordance
with Penal Code section 326.3(p). Every remote caller bingo game shall be
played until a winner is declared. Progressive prizes are prohibited. Prizes
shall be paid by check only in accordance with Penal Code section 326.3(p).
(Ord. 14-997)
4-1F-6: PENALTIES AND ENFORCEMENT:
Violation of any of the provisions of this article shall be punishable as a
misdemeanor in the manner provided in this code. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
a violation of subsection
4-1F-3J of this article is a misdemeanor and shall be punishable by a fine not
to exceed ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00), which fine shall be deposited in
the general fund of the city. (Ord. 14-997)
ARTICLE G. BURGLAR ALARM SYSTEM
SECTION:
4-1G-0: Definitions
4-1G-1: Direct Dial Telephone Devices
4-1G-2: Audible Alarm Requirement
4-1G-3: False Alarm
4-1G-4: Public Nuisance Alarms
4-1G-5: Exemptions
4-1G-6: Corrective Action
4-1G-7: Infraction
4-1G-8: Severability
4-1G-0: DEFINITIONS:
   ALARM OWNER: The person who owns, leases, rents, uses or makes available for
use by his agents, employees, representatives or family, any alarm system.
   ALARM SYSTEM: Any device, whether known as a burglary, robbery or intrusion
alarm, direct dial telephone device, audible or silent alarm or by any other
name, which is used for the detection of an unauthorized entry into a building,
structure or facility, or to signal the commission of an unlawful act. It shall
include those devices which emit a signal within the protected premises only,
are supervised by the proprietor of the premises where located, and are
otherwise known as "proprietary alarm systems". Auxiliary devices installed by
a telephone company to protect telephone company systems which might be damaged
or disrupted by the use of an alarm system are not included in this definition.
   AUDIBLE ALARM: A device designed to notify persons in the immediate vicinity
of the protected premises by emission of an audible sound of an authorized
entry on the premises or of the commission of an unlawful act.
   DIRECT DIAL DEVICE: A device which is connected to a telephone line and upon
activation of an alarm system, automatically dials a predetermined telephone
number and transmits a message or signal indicating a need for emergency
response.
   FALSE ALARM: An alarm signal activated by causes other than the commission
or attempted commission of any unlawful act which the alarm system is designed
to detect. An alarm signal activated by violent conditions of nature or other
extraordinary circumstances not subject to the control of the alarm owner shall
not constitute a false alarm. (1960 Code; amd. Ord. 80-494)
4-1G-1: DIRECT DIAL TELEPHONE DEVICES:
No person shall use any alarm system which is equipped with a direct dial
device, and which when activated, automatically dials any telephone number in
any office or any public agency. (1960 Code)
4-1G-2: AUDIBLE ALARM REQUIREMENT:
For every audible alarm, the alarm owner or user thereof, shall post the names
and telephone numbers of persons to be notified to render repairs or service
during any hour of the day or night during which the audible alarm is operated.
An audible alarm shall terminate its operation, or the audible alarm shall
automatically reset, within thirty (30) minutes of its being activated. (1960
Code)
4-1G-3: FALSE ALARM:
A person shall not knowingly turn in a false alarm. This section does not
prohibit a test of an alarm system as permitted in advance by the sheriff.
(1960 Code)
4-1G-4: PUBLIC NUISANCE ALARMS:
Any alarm system which generates more than three (3) false alarms in any twelve
(12) month period shall constitute a public nuisance due to the inordinate
response time and risk attributable thereto. No person shall own, use or
operate any alarm system classified as a public nuisance hereunder. (1960 Code)
4-1G-5: EXEMPTIONS:
The provisions of this article are not applicable to audible alarms affixed to
motor vehicles or to a public telephone utility whose only duty is to furnish
telephone service pursuant to tariffs on file with the California public
utilities commission. (1960 Code)
4-1G-6: CORRECTIVE ACTION:
Upon the first violation of section
4-1G-4 of this article, the sheriff shall serve a written notice on the
violator describing the violation and specifying that the causes of the
violation shall be corrected within ten (10) days of the date of service of the
written notice. No further action shall be taken provided that the sheriff
determines that the causes of the violation have been removed or fully
corrected within the time period specified in this section. (1960 Code)
4-1G-7: INFRACTION:
Violation of any of the provisions of sections
4-1G-0 through
4-1G-6 of this article shall be deemed an infraction under subsection
1-2-0A of this code. Any alarm owner or user about to be cited for an
infraction may avoid such process by paying a civil penalty to the city clerk
of seventy five dollars ($75.00) for the first offense, one hundred fifty
dollars ($150.00) for the second, and two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for
the third and subsequent offenses. (1960 Code)
4-1G-8: SEVERABILITY:
If any provisions or clause of this article or application thereof to any
persons or circumstances is held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect
other provisions or applications of this article which can be given effect
without the invalid provisions or application, and to this end the provisions
of this article are declared to be severable. (1960 Code)
ARTICLE H. BUSINESS REGULATIONS REGARDING SEXUAL ACTIVITIES
SECTION:
4-1H-0: Business Regulations
4-1H-1: Standard Conditions
4-1H-0: BUSINESS REGULATIONS:
No adult business (as defined in section
9-1T-3 of this code) may maintain any closed area, booth, cubicle, room or
other such area (within its place of business) that is or could be used for
private sexual activity. No nudity or sexual activities shall be allowed on the
premises. All portions of the premises shall be available by access and visual
inspection at all times by any city inspector standing at the front door. Bona
fide bathrooms are excepted. (Ord. 86-593)
4-1H-1: STANDARD CONDITIONS:
Unless otherwise stated in this chapter, elsewhere in this code and the zoning
code if applicable, the conditions imposed upon an operation and conduct of
such business shall be set and/or modified by resolution of the city council.
(Ord. 97-807)
CHAPTER 2
NUISANCES
ARTICLE A. VEHICLES
SECTION:
4-2A-0: Definitions
4-2A-1: Public Nuisance
4-2A-2: Exceptions
4-2A-3: Nonexclusive Regulation
4-2A-4: Enforcement By City Manager
4-2A-5: Notice Of Violation
4-2A-6: Notice Procedure
4-2A-7: Public Hearing
4-2A-8: Notice To California Highway Patrol
4-2A-9: Conduct Of Hearings, Assessment Of Costs
4-2A-10: Notice Of Declaration Of Public Nuisance
4-2A-11: Removal, Authority
4-2A-12: Determination Of Costs
4-2A-13: Reserved
4-2A-14: Disposal Of Vehicle
4-2A-15: Notice Of Disposal
4-2A-16: Collection Of Costs
4-2A-0: DEFINITIONS:
   HIGHWAY: A way or place of whatever nature, publicly maintained and open to
the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel. "Highway" includes
street.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY: Shall not include "highway".
   VEHICLE: A device by which any person or property may be propelled, moved,
or drawn upon a highway, except a device moved by human power or used
exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks. (1960 Code)
4-2A-1: PUBLIC NUISANCE:
The accumulation and storage of abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, or inoperative
vehicles or parts thereof, except as expressly herein permitted, on private or
public property (not including highways) is hereby found to create a condition
tending to reduce the value of private property, to promote blight and
deterioration, to invite plundering, to create fire hazards, to constitute an
attractive nuisance creating a hazard to the health and safety of minors, to
create a harborage for rodents and insects, and to be injurious to the health,
safety and general welfare.
   A.   The presence of an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative
vehicle or part thereof, on private or public property (not including
highways), except as expressly herein permitted, may be declared to constitute
a public nuisance and abated as such in accordance with the provisions of
sections
4-2A-0 through
4-2A-16 of this article and section 22660 of the Vehicle Code.
   B.   A vehicle is deemed "inoperative" if the vehicle is: 1) mechanically
incapable of being driven; or 2) prohibited from being operated on a public
street or highway pursuant to Vehicle Code section 4000, 5202, 24002, or 40001,
concerning license plates, registration, equipment, safety and related matters.
(1960 Code; amd. Ord. 75-409; Ord. 98-824)
4-2A-2: EXCEPTIONS:
Sections
4-2A-0 through
 4-2A-16 of this article shall not apply to:
   A.   A vehicle or part thereof which is completely enclosed within a
building in a lawful manner where it is not visible from the street or other
public or private property; or
   B.   A vehicle or part thereof which is stored or parked in a lawful manner
on private property in connection with the business of a licensed dismantler,
licensed vehicle dealer, a junk dealer, or when such storage or parking is
necessary to the operation of a lawfully conducted business or commercial
enterprise; or
   C.   A vehicle which has remained inoperative for less than seventy two (72)
hours accumulated; provided, however, that this exception shall not apply to
vehicles stored or parked in front yard areas.
   D.   A vehicle classified as a genuine antique, or collector's item, and
licensed as such under applicable state law, specifically the state of
California Vehicle Code, "vehicles of historic value" section 5004, "model year
date license plates" section 5004.1, "pre-1943 motorcycles" section 5004.5, and
"street rod vehicle plates" section 5004.6.
Nothing in this section shall authorize the maintenance of a public or private
nuisance as defined under provisions of law other than chapter 10 (commencing
with section 22650) of division 11 of the Vehicle Code. (1960 Code; amd. Ord.
75-409; Ord. 98-828)
4-2A-3: NONEXCLUSIVE REGULATION:
Sections
4-2A-0 through
 4-2A-16 of this article are not the exclusive regulation of abandoned,
wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicles within the city; instead shall
supplement and be in addition to the other regulatory provisions heretofore or
hereafter enacted by the city, the state, or any other legal entity or agency
having jurisdiction. (1960 Code)
4-2A-4: ENFORCEMENT BY CITY MANAGER:
Except as otherwise provided herein, the provisions of sections
 4-2A-0 through
4-2A-16 of this article shall be administered and enforced by the city manager.
In such enforcement, the city manager or his subordinates may enter upon
private or public property to examine a vehicle or parts thereof or to obtain
information as to the identity of a vehicle. Where permission is refused,
search orders may be obtained. (1960 Code)
4-2A-5: NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
Where the city manager determined that there is such an abandoned, wrecked,
dismantled or inoperative vehicle, he shall give written notice of such
determination either: a) by personally serving the occupant of such premises,
or b) by placing or affixing such notice to the vehicle or parts thereof. The
notice shall state the date, the determination as defined in section
4-2A-0 of this article and prescribe a minimum of forty eight (48) hours within
which the vehicle or part thereof shall be removed. A copy of such notice shall
be promptly delivered to the city clerk. (1960 Code; amd. Ord. 98-824)
4-2A-6: NOTICE PROCEDURE:
Notice of such hearing shall be mailed at least ten (10) days before the
hearing by certified mail, with a five (5) day return requested, to the owner
of the land as shown on the last equalized county assessment roll and to the
last registered and legal owner of record if numbers are not available to
determine ownership. If any of the foregoing notices are returned undelivered
by the United States post office, the hearing shall be continued to a date not
less than ten (10) days from the date of such return. (1960 Code)
4-2A-7: PUBLIC HEARING:
Upon receipt of a copy of the notice set forth in sections 4-2A-5 and 4-2A-6 of
this article and expiration of the forty eight (48) hour period, the city
manager shall present the violation to the city council at its regular meeting,
but in no event less than fifteen (15) days from the date stated on such
notice. At such meeting of the city council, a public hearing shall be held on
the question of public nuisance, and abatement and removal of the vehicle or
part thereof as an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicle and
the assessment of administrative costs and costs of removal of the vehicle or
part thereof against the property on which it is located. (1960 Code; amd. Ord.
98-824)
4-2A-8: NOTICE TO CALIFORNIA HIGHWAY PATROL:
Notice of hearing shall also be given to the California highway patrol
identifying the vehicle or part thereof proposed for removal; such notice to be
mailed at least ten (10) days prior to the public hearing. (1960 Code)
4-2A-9: CONDUCT OF HEARINGS, ASSESSMENT OF COSTS:
Hearings held as required by these sections shall be conducted as follows:
   A.   All such hearings shall be held before the city council which shall
hear all facts and testimony it deems pertinent. Said facts and testimony may
include testimony on the condition of the vehicle or part thereof and the
circumstances concerning its location on the said private property or public
property, the effect of such upon adjoining properties and whether a public
nuisance has been created thereby. The city council shall not be limited by the
technical rules of evidence. The owner of the land on which the vehicle is
located may appear in person at the hearing or present a written statement in
time for consideration at the hearing, and deny responsibility for the presence
of the vehicle on the land, with reasons for such denial.
   B.   The city council may impose such conditions and take such other action
as it deems appropriate under the circumstances to carry out the purpose
hereof. It may delay the time for removal of the vehicle or part thereof if, in
its opinion, the circumstances justify it. At the conclusion of the public
hearing, the city council may: 1) find that a vehicle or part thereof has been
abandoned, wrecked, dismantled, or is inoperative on private or public
property; and 2) issue its written order to have the same removed from the
property as a public nuisance and disposed of as hereinafter provided; and 3)
determine whether the administrative costs and the cost of removal are to be
charged against the owner of the parcel of land on which the vehicle or part
thereof is located. The order requiring removal shall include a description of
the vehicle or part thereof and the correct identification number and license
number of the vehicle, if located thereon.
   C.   If it is determined at the hearing that the vehicle was placed on the
land without the consent of the landowner and that he has not subsequently
acquiesced in its presence, the city council shall not assess costs of
administration or removal of the vehicle against the property upon which the
vehicle is located or otherwise attempt to collect such costs from such
landowner.
   D.   If an interested party makes a written presentation to the city council
but does not appear, he shall be notified in writing of the decision. (1960
Code; amd. Ord. 75-409; Ord. 98-824)
4-2A-10: NOTICE OF DECLARATION OF PUBLIC NUISANCE:
At the conclusion of the hearing if the city council determines that a public
nuisance exists, it shall adopt a resolution declaring such motor vehicle to be
a public nuisance and ordering abatement thereof which order shall be served in
the same manner as described above. (1960 Code; amd. Ord. 98-824)
4-2A-11: REMOVAL, AUTHORITY:
When the city council has contracted with or granted a franchise to any person
or persons, such person or persons shall be authorized to enter upon private
property or public property to remove or cause the removal of a vehicle or
parts thereof declared to be a nuisance pursuant thereto. (1960 Code)
4-2A-12: DETERMINATION OF COSTS:
The costs of removal and abatement shall be the actual charges submitted by the
person or persons under contract or franchise with the city for such removal.
The administrative costs are hereby determined to be twenty five dollars
($25.00) per removal. (1960 Code)
4-2A-13: RESERVED:
(Ord. 98-824)
4-2A-14: DISPOSAL OF VEHICLE:
Six (6) days after the mailing of the order declaring the vehicle or parts
thereof to be a public nuisance and ordering its removal, the city may cause
the vehicle or parts thereof to be disposed of by removal to a scrap yard or
automobile dismantler's yard or other suitable site. (1960 Code; amd. Ord. 98-
824)
4-2A-15: NOTICE OF DISPOSAL:
Within five (5) days after the date of removal of the vehicle or part thereof,
notice shall be given to the department of motor vehicles identifying such
vehicle or part thereof. At the same time there shall be transmitted to the
department of motor vehicles any evidence or registration available, including
registration certificates, certificates of title and license plates. (1960
Code)
4-2A-16: COLLECTION OF COSTS:
If the administrative costs and the cost of removal which are charged against
the owner of a parcel of land pursuant to section
4-2A-9 of this article are not paid within thirty (30) days of the date of the
order, or the final disposition of an appeal therefrom such costs shall be
assessed against the parcel of land pursuant to section 38773.5 of the
Government Code and shall be transmitted to the tax collector for collection.
Said assessment shall have the same priority as other city taxes. (1960 Code)
ARTICLE B. POLITICAL SIGNS AND HANDBILLS
SECTION:
4-2B-0: Legislative Intent
4-2B-1: Definitions
4-2B-2: Placement Of Political Signs In The Public Right Of Way
4-2B-3: Placement Of Political Signs On Private Property
4-2B-4: Declaration Of Nuisance/Special Abatement Procedures
4-2B-5: Handbills, Signs; Public Places And Objects
4-2B-0: LEGISLATIVE INTENT:
The city council of the city of Temple City hereby declares that its intent in
adopting reasonable and nondiscriminatory regulations pertaining to the
placement and removal of political signage is to provide for the health,
safety, and welfare of the general public. The city council further declares
that it would have passed and does hereby pass this article and each sentence,
section, clause, and phrase hereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or
more sections, sentences, clauses, or phrases be declared invalid or
unconstitutional. (Ord. 02-875)
4-2B-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, the following terms shall be defined as set forth
herein:
   PARKWAY: A landscaped area between the edge of curb and the front of
sidewalk.
   POLITICAL: Relating to or concerning an election, a candidate for election,
or a ballot proposition. (Ord. 02-875)
4-2B-2: PLACEMENT OF POLITICAL SIGNS IN THE PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY:
Political signage may be placed in the public right of way in accordance with
the following restrictions:
   A.   When curb/gutter and sidewalk is present: Political signs are allowed
in an area which is a minimum of two feet (2') (24 inches) behind the back of
sidewalk;
   B.   When curb and gutter (but no sidewalk) is present: Political signs are
allowed in an area which is a minimum of six feet (6') (72 inches) behind the
back of the curb;
   C.   When neither curb/gutter nor sidewalk is present: Political signs are
allowed in an area which is a minimum of six feet (6') (72 inches) behind the
edge of pavement;
   D.   On those streets with a parkway, political signs are not allowed in the
parkway area. Political signage is allowed in the area a minimum of two feet
(2') (24 inches) behind the back of sidewalk;
   E.   No part of the sign, including both the post and sign face, shall
encroach into the areas designated above. (Ord. 02-875)
4-2B-3: PLACEMENT OF POLITICAL SIGNS ON PRIVATE PROPERTY:
The regulations provided in this article shall apply only to areas within the
public right of way. Political signs placed solely upon private property shall
not be subject to this article. (Ord. 02-875)
4-2B-4: DECLARATION OF NUISANCE/SPECIAL ABATEMENT PROCEDURES:
Signs not in compliance with section
4-2B-2 of this article are hereby designated and constitute a public nuisance
within this city and shall be subject to abatement and lien as provided in
section 38771 et seq., of the California Government Code.
The following "special abatement procedures" shall apply:
   A.   Political signs not posing an immediate threat to health, safety, and
welfare, placed in violation of section
4-2B-2 of this article shall be subject to removal by the city. Prior to
removal, the city manager shall cause a "notice of violation and pending
removal" to be delivered to the last known address of the candidate, party,
and/or proponent/opponent responsible for placing the sign. Said notice shall
be delivered by the United States postal service or other recognized overnight
courier service and shall be deemed delivered at five o'clock (5:00) P.M. on
the third day following deposit thereof in the United States postal service (or
5:00 P.M. on the day following deposit with the courier service). The notice
shall inform the recipient of the location(s) of signs in violation of this
article, the time after which the signs may be removed by the city, and the
storage period and storage area provided for in subsection D of this section
should the signs be removed. Failure of the recipient to remove the signs prior
to the time stated in the notice shall subject the signs to removal by the
city.
   B.   A political sign which is deemed by the city manager to pose an
immediate threat to health, safety, and welfare shall be subject to immediate
removal by the city.
   C.   Political signs shall be removed from the public right of way within
fifteen (15) days of the conclusion of an election. Signs remaining after the
fifteen (15) day period shall be subject to the notice and removal provisions
of this section.
   D.   Political signs removed by the city shall be stored at the city for a
period of fifteen (15) days following the date of removal. Upon expiration of
the storage period, the city may dispose of the political signs without
compensation to the owner of the political signs. (Ord. 02-875)
4-2B-5: HANDBILLS, SIGNS; PUBLIC PLACES AND OBJECTS:
   A.   No person shall paint, mark, or write on or post or otherwise affix any
handbill or sign to or upon any sidewalk, crosswalk, curb, curbstone, street
lamppost, hydrant, tree, shrub, tree stake or guard, railroad trestle, electric
light or power or telephone or telegraph or trolley wire pole, or wire
appurtenance thereof or upon any fixture of the fire alarm or police telegraph
system or upon any lighting system, public bridge, drinking fountain, street
sign or traffic sign, or traffic signal facilities.
   B.   Any handbill or sign found posted or otherwise affixed upon any public
property contrary to the provisions of this section may be removed by the city
manager or his designee. The person responsible for any such illegal posting
shall be liable for the cost incurred in the removal thereof and the city
manager is authorized to effect the collection of said costs.
   C.   Nothing in this section shall apply to the installation of a metal
plaque or plate or individual letters or figures in a sidewalk commemorating a
historical, cultural, or artistic event, location or personality for which the
city manager has granted a written permit in accordance with the appropriate
section of this code.
   D.   Nothing in this section shall apply to the painting of house numbers
upon curbs done under permits issued by the city manager under and in
accordance with the provisions of this code. (Ord. 02-875)
ARTICLE C. PUBLIC NUISANCES
SECTION:
Part 1. Nuisances Enumerated
4-2C-0: Findings, Purpose, And Intent
4-2C-1: Definitions
4-2C-2: Prohibited Public Nuisance Conditions
4-2C-3: Penalty
Part 2. Administrative Procedures For Abatement Of Nuisances
4-2C-10: Abatement Of Public Nuisances
4-2C-11: Continuing Obligation Of Responsible Persons To Abate A Public
Nuisance
4-2C-12: Notice Of Public Nuisance And Intention To Abate With City Personnel
4-2C-12-1: Additional Requirements For Demolition Of Buildings Or Structures
4-2C-12-2: Notice And Order To Vacate Buildings Or Structures
4-2C-12-3: Sample Notice Of Abatement
4-2C-12-4: Service Of Notice
4-2C-13: Right Of Appeal From A Notice Of Abatement
4-2C-13-1: Consequence Of An Untimely Appeal
4-2C-14: Abatement By Responsible Person Prior To Hearing
4-2C-15: Review By Hearing Officer
4-2C-15-1: Decision Of Hearing Officer; Order Of Abatement
4-2C-16: Abatement Of Nuisance By Responsible Persons Prior To City Abatement
Actions
4-2C-17: Emergency Action To Abate An Imminent Hazard
4-2C-18: Combination Of Notices
4-2C-19: Establishment Of Costs Of Abatement
4-2C-19-1: Collection Of Abatement Costs By Special Assessment
4-2C-19-2: Collection Of Costs Of Abatement By Nuisance Abatement Lien
4-2C-20: Treble The Costs Of Abatement
4-2C-21: Violations And Penalties
Part 3. Recordation, Enforcement And Attorney Fees
4-2C-30: Recordation Of Substandard Notice
4-2C-31: Code Enforcement Fees
4-2C-32: Recovery Of Attorney Fees
4-2C-33: Applicability Of Other Laws
PART 1. NUISANCES ENUMERATED
4-2C-0: FINDINGS, PURPOSE, AND INTENT:
   A.   Findings: The city council finds and declares as follows:
      1.   Section VII of article XI of the California constitution provides
that a city may make and enforce within its limits all local, police, sanitary,
and other ordinances and regulations not in conflict with general laws.
      2.   California Government Code section 38771 provides that legislative
bodies of cities may declare what constitutes a nuisance.
      3.   California Government Code section 38772 et seq., further provides
that legislative bodies of cities may also provide for the summary abatement of
any nuisance at the expense of the persons creating, causing, committing, or
maintaining it, and by ordinance may make the expense of abatement of nuisances
a lien against the property on which the nuisance is maintained and a personal
obligation against the property owner.
      4.   Nuisance conditions are offensive or annoying to the senses,
detrimental to property values and community appearance, an obstruction or
interference with the comfortable enjoyment of adjacent properties or premises
(both public and private), and/or are hazardous or injurious to the health,
safety, or welfare of the general public.
   B.   Purpose And Intent: The purpose and intent of this article are as
follows:
      1.   To define as public nuisances and violations those conditions and
uses of land that are offensive or annoying to the senses, detrimental to
property values and community appearance, an obstruction or interference with
the comfortable enjoyment of adjacent properties or premises (both public and
private), and/or are hazardous or injurious to the health, safety, or welfare
of the general public.
      2.   To develop regulations that will promote the sound maintenance of
property and enhance conditions of appearance, habitability, occupancy, use and
safety of all structures and premises in the city.
      3.   To establish administrative procedures for the city's use, upon its
election, to correct or abate violations of this article on real property
throughout the city.
      4.   This article is not intended to be applied, construed or given
effect in a manner that imposes upon the city, or upon any officer or employee
thereof, any duty toward persons or property within the city or outside of the
city that creates a basis for civil liability for damages, except as otherwise
imposed by law. (Ord. 11-950)
4-2C-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, the following definitions shall apply. For purposes of
this article, these definitions shall supersede any other definitions of the
same terms elsewhere in this code.
   ABANDONED PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall mean and refers to any item, object,
thing, material or substance that, by its condition of damage, deterioration,
disrepair, nonuse, obsolescence or location on public real property or on
private real property, causes a reasonable person to conclude that the owner
has permanently relinquished all right, title, claim and possession thereto, or
that the object, thing, material or substance cannot be used for its intended
or designed purpose. Abandoned personal property may include junk and vehicles.
   ABANDONED STRUCTURE: Real property, or any building or structure thereon,
that is vacant and is maintained in an uninhabitable condition or a condition
of disrepair or deterioration as evidenced by the existence of public nuisances
therein, or that is vacant and under a current notice of default and/or notice
of trustee's sale, pending tax assessor's lien sale, or that is vacant and has
been the subject of a foreclosure sale where title was retained by the
beneficiary of a deed of trust involved in the foreclosure. Factors that may
also be considered in a determination of an abandoned structure include,
without limitation: present operability and functional utility; the presence of
nonfunctional, broken or missing doors or windows, such that entry therein by
unauthorized persons is not deterred; the existence of real property tax
delinquencies for the land upon which the structure is located; age and degree
of obsolescence of the structure, and the cost of rehabilitation or repair
versus its market value.
   ABATEMENT COSTS: All costs, fees, and expenses, incidental or otherwise,
incurred by the city in investigating and abating a public nuisance.
   ATTRACTIVE NUISANCE: Any condition, device, equipment, instrument, item or
machine that is unsafe, unprotected and may prove detrimental to minors whether
in a structure or in outdoor areas of developed or undeveloped real property.
This includes, without limitation, any abandoned or open and accessible wells,
shafts, basements or excavations; any abandoned refrigerators and abandoned or
inoperable motor vehicles; any structurally unsound fences or structures; or
any lumber, trash, fences, debris or vegetation which may prove hazardous or
dangerous to inquisitive minors. An attractive nuisance shall also include
pools, standing water or excavations containing water, that are unfenced or
otherwise lack an adequate barrier thereby creating a risk of drowning, or
which are hazardous or unsafe due to the existence of any condition rendering
such water to be clouded, unclear or injurious to health due to, without
limitation, any of the following: bacterial growth, infectious or toxic agents,
algae, insect remains, animal remains, rubbish, refuse, debris, or waste of any
kind.
   BUILDING: Any structure designed, used, or maintained for the shelter or
enclosure of persons, animals, chattels, equipment, or property of any kind,
and shall also include structures wherein things may be grown, made, produced,
kept, handled, stored, or disposed of, and all appendages, accessories,
apparatus, appliances, and equipment installed as a part thereof.
   CITY: The city of Temple City.
   CITY MANAGER: The city manager or designee thereof.
   CITY PERSONNEL: Any city employee, representative, agent or contractor
designated by the city manager to abate a public nuisance.
   CODE, CODES, AND TEMPLE CITY MUNICIPAL CODE: The Temple City municipal code
and any code, law, or regulation incorporated therein by reference, the Temple
City zoning code, and any adopted and uncodified ordinances.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT FEES: Fees imposed by the city to defray its costs of code
enforcement actions including, but not limited to, the time and other resources
of public officials expended by them in identifying, inspecting, investigating,
seeking or causing the abatement of a violation at a residential structure or
property. These include, but are not limited to, site inspections, drafting
reports, taking photographs, procuring other evidence, engaging in meetings,
conferences and communications with responsible persons, their agents or
representatives, concerning a violation, as well as with attorneys for the city
at any time, and appearances before judicial officers or reviewing authorities
during the pendency of a judicial proceeding and other appearances at such
judicial or administrative hearings. The time and resources that public
officials further expend to confirm that a residential structure remains free
of public nuisances while a responsible person is on probation to a court or
when a matter concerning a residential structure remains pending before a
reviewing authority in an administrative action, shall also constitute code
enforcement actions. For purposes of this definition:
Residential Structure And Property: Shall mean and include all structures and
premises that are regulated by the California state housing law 1
and any future amendments thereto, as well as any property within a residential
zone as designated by the Temple City zoning code. These include, but are not
limited to, apartment houses, hotels, motels, and dwellings, and residential
buildings and structures thereto.
Violation: Shall mean and include a public nuisance as described in this
article, or any condition, activity, or use that is caused, allowed to exist,
or maintained (whether due to an affirmative act, inaction, or omission) by a
responsible person in violation of any other provision, regulation, or
requirement of this code, or any applicable county, state, or federal laws or
regulations.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER: Any individual employed by the city with primary
enforcement authority for city codes, or his or her duly authorized
representative(s).
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE: Any vehicle of a type required to be registered under
the state of California Vehicle Code used or maintained for the transportation
of persons for hire, compensation or profit, or designed, used, or maintained
primarily for the transportation of property or for other commercial purposes.
Passenger vehicles that are not used for the transportation of persons for
hire, compensation, or profit, house cars (motor homes), and van pool vehicles
are not commercial vehicles.
   COMPLIANCE PERIOD: The period of time and/or required schedule set forth in
a notice of abatement and/or an order of abatement within which all nuisance
abatement actions referenced in such notice of abatement and/or order of
abatement must be completed.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES: Any substance that is declared by state or federal
law to be a controlled substance.
   FIRE HAZARD: Shall include, but shall not be limited to, any device,
equipment, waste, vegetation, condition, thing, or act which is in such a
condition that it increases or could cause an increase of the hazard or menace
of fire to a greater degree than that customarily recognized as normal by
persons in the public service regularly engaged in preventing, suppressing, or
extinguishing fire or that otherwise provides a ready fuel to augment the
spread and intensity of fire or explosion arising from any cause; or any
device, equipment, waste, vegetation, condition, thing, or act which could
obstruct, delay, hinder, or interfere with, or may become the cause of
obstruction, delay, or hindrance of, the operations of the fire department or
other emergency service personnel or the egress of the occupants in the event
of fire.
   GRAFFITI: Any unauthorized inscription, word, figure, mark, or design that
is written, marked, etched, scratched, drawn, or painted on or otherwise glued,
posted, or affixed to or on any real or personal property (including, but not
limited to, buildings, structures, and vehicles), regardless of the nature of
the material to the extent that the same was not authorized in advance by the
owner thereof.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS: Any material or substance of any kind that is declared
by any federal, state, or local law, ordinance, or regulation to be composed of
hazardous material.
   HEARING OFFICER: The city employee or representative appointed by the city
manager, or a designee thereof, to hear all timely appeals from a notice of
abatement.
   INCIDENTAL EXPENSES: Shall include, but shall not be limited to, the actual
expenses and costs of the city, such as preparation of notices, specifications,
contracts, inspection of work, costs of printing and mailings required
hereunder, costs of any filing and/or recordation with the county recorder's
office or other governmental agency, and the costs of administration and legal
services.
   INOPERABLE VEHICLE: Shall mean and include, without limitation, any vehicle
that is incapable of being lawfully driven on a street and/or highway. Factors
that may be used to determine this condition include, without limitation,
vehicles that have a "planned nonoperational" status with the California
department of motor vehicles, vehicles lacking a current and valid
registration, a working engine, transmission, wheels, inflated tires, doors,
windshield or any other part or equipment necessary for its legal and safe
operation on a highway or any other public right of way.
   JUNK: Shall mean and include, but is not limited to, any castoff, damaged,
discarded, junked, obsolete, salvaged, scrapped, unusable, worn out or wrecked
appliance, device, equipment, furniture, fixture, furnishing, object, material,
substance, tire, or thing of any kind or composition. Junk may include
abandoned personal property, as well as any form of debris, refuse, rubbish,
trash or waste. Factors that may be considered in a determination that personal
property is junk include, without limitation, its:
   A.   Condition of damage, deterioration, disrepair or nonuse.
   B.   Approximate age and degree of obsolescence.
   C.   Location.
   D.   Present operability, functional utility and status of registration or
licensing, where applicable.
   E.   Cost of rehabilitation or repair versus its market value.
   JUNKYARD: Real property of any zoning classification on which junk is kept,
maintained, placed or stored to such a degree that it constitutes a principal
use or condition on said premises. The existence of a junkyard is not a
nuisance when it is an expressly permitted use in the applicable zone and it is
in full compliance with all provisions of the Temple City zoning code, and all
other applicable provisions of the Temple City municipal code, as well as all
future amendments and additions thereto.
   NOTICE OF ABATEMENT: A notice of public nuisance and intention to abate with
city personnel, as described in section
4-2C-12 of this article.
   NUDE AND NUDITY: Exposure of the genitals, pubic area, anus, or buttocks
with less than a fully opaque covering; or exposure of a female breast below a
horizontal line across the top of the areola at the areola's highest point with
less than a fully opaque covering.
   ORDER OF ABATEMENT: An order issued by a hearing officer following an appeal
of a notice of abatement.
   OWNER: Shall mean and include any person having legal title to, or who
leases, rents, occupies or has charge, control or possession of, any real
property in the city, including all persons shown as owners on the last
equalized assessment roll of the Los Angeles County assessor's office. Owners
include persons with powers of attorney, executors of estates, trustees, or who
are court appointed administrators, conservators, guardians or receivers. An
owner of personal property shall be any person who has legal title, charge,
control, or possession of such property.
   PERSON: Shall mean and include any individual, partnership of any kind,
corporation, limited liability company, association, joint venture or other
organization, however formed, as well as trustees, heirs, executors,
administrators, or assigns, or any combination of such persons. "Person" also
includes any public entity or agency that acts as an owner in the city.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY: Means property that is not real property, and includes,
without limitation, any appliance, furniture, article, device, equipment, item,
material, product, substance or vehicle.
   POLICE CHIEF: The highest ranking officer of the police department or his/
her designee.
   POLICE DEPARTMENT: Shall mean the law enforcement agency providing law
enforcement services to the city, and shall include the Los Angeles County
sheriff's department.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE: Anything which is, or likely to become, injurious or
detrimental to health, safety or welfare, or is offensive to the senses, or an
obstruction to the free use of property, so as to interfere with the
comfortable enjoyment of life or property, or unlawfully obstructs the free
passage or use, in the customary manner, of any sidewalk, public park, square,
street or highway. All conditions hereafter enumerated in this article, or that
otherwise violate or are contrary to any provision of this code, are public
nuisances by definition and declaration, and said enumerated conditions shall
not, in any manner, be construed to be exclusive or exhaustive. A public
nuisance shall also exist when a person fails to comply with any condition of a
city approval, entitlement, license or permit or when an activity on, or use
of, real property violates, or is contrary to, any provision or requirement of
this code.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY: Any property owned or controlled by the city, including,
but not limited to, any building, street, sidewalk, right-of-way, bike path,
alley, parking lot, plaza, park, playground, pool, body of water, open space or
other place open to the public owned or maintained by the city, the County of
Los Angeles, the State of California, the United States government, or other
public entity.
   REAL PROPERTY OR PREMISES: Any real property owned by any person and/or any
building, structure, or other improvement thereon, or portions thereof. "Real
property" or "premises" includes any adjacent sidewalk, parkway, street, alley,
or other unimproved public easement, whether or not owned by the city of Temple
City.
   RESPONSIBLE PERSON: Any person, whether as an "owner" as defined in this
article, or otherwise, that allows, causes, creates, maintains, suffers, or
permits a public nuisance, or any violation of this code or county or state
law, or regulation thereof, to exist or continue, by any act or the omission of
any act or duty. A responsible person shall also include employees, principals,
joint venturers, officers, agents, and/or other persons acting in concert with,
or at the direction of, and/or with the knowledge and/or consent of the owner
and/or occupant of the lot, building or structure on, or in which, a public
nuisance or violation exists or existed. The actions or inactions of a
responsible person's agent, employee, representative or contractor may be
attributed to that responsible person.
   STRUCTURE: That which is built or constructed, an edifice, wall, fence, or
building of any kind, or any piece of work artificially built up or composed of
parts joined together in some definite manner. For purposes of this article,
this definition shall supersede any other definition of this term in this code.
   VACANT: Real property or any building or structure thereon that is not
legally occupied. Factors that may be used, either alone or in combination, to
determine whether real property, or building or structure thereon, is vacant
include, but shall not be limited to, overgrown and/or dead vegetation;
accumulation of newspapers, circulars, fliers, and/or mail; past due utility
notices and/or disconnected utilities; accumulation of trash, junk, and/or
other debris; the absence of window coverings such as curtains, blinds, and/or
shutters; the absence of furnishings and/or personal items consistent with
residential and/or commercial furnishings consistent with the permitted uses
within the zone of the real property; statements by neighbors, passersby,
delivery agents, government employees that the property is vacant.
   VEHICLE: Any device, by which any person or property may be propelled,
moved, or drawn upon a highway or other public right of way, and includes all
vehicles as defined by the California Vehicle Code, and all future amendments
thereto. "Vehicle" does not include devices: a) that are propelled exclusively
by human power such as bicycles and wheelchairs, or b) those that are used
exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
   WEEDS: Shall include, but shall not be limited to, any of the following:
   A.   Any plant, brush, growth, or other vegetation that bear seeds of a
downy or wingy nature;
   B.   Any plant, brush, growth, or other vegetation that attains such large
growth as to become, when dry, a fire hazard;
   C.   Any plant, brush, growth, or other vegetation that is noxious or
dangerous;
   D.   Poison oak and poison ivy when the conditions of growth are such as to
constitute a threat to the public health; or
   E.   Dry grass, rubble, brush, or other flammable plant, growth, or other
vegetation that endangers the public safety by creating or tending to create a
fire hazard.
(Ord. 11-950; amd. Ord. 24-1075)
 
Notes
1 1. HSC div. 13, part 1.5, § 17910 et seq.
4-2C-2: PROHIBITED PUBLIC NUISANCE CONDITIONS:
The city council finds and declares that, notwithstanding any other provision
of this code, it is a public nuisance and unlawful for any person to allow,
cause, create, maintain, or suffer, or permit others to cause, create, or
maintain the following:
   A.   Any real property or premises in the city in such a manner that any one
or more of the following conditions are found to exist thereon:
      1.   Land, the topography, geology or configuration of which whether in
natural state or as a result of the grading operations, excavation or fill,
causes erosion, subsidence, or surface water drainage problems of such
magnitude as to be injurious or potentially injurious to the public health,
safety and welfare, or to adjacent properties.
      2.   Buildings or other structures, or portions thereof, that are
partially constructed or destroyed or allowed to remain in a state of partial
construction or destruction for an unreasonable period of time. As used herein,
an "unreasonable" period shall mean any portion of time exceeding the period
given to a responsible person by the city for the complete abatement of this
nuisance condition with all required city approvals, permits and inspections.
Factors that may be used by the city to establish a reasonable period for the
complete abatement of this nuisance include, but are not limited to, the
following:
         a.   The degree of partial construction or destruction and the cause
therefor.
         b.   Whether or not this condition constitutes an attractive nuisance
or if it otherwise poses or promotes a health or safety hazard to occupants of
the premises, or to others.
         c.   The degree of visibility, if any, of this condition from public
or adjoining private real property.
         d.   The scope and type of work that is needed to abate this nuisance.
         e.   The promptness with which a responsible person has applied for
and obtained all required city approvals and permits in order to lawfully
commence the nuisance abatement actions.
         f.   Whether or not a responsible person has complied with other
required technical code requirements, including requesting and passing required
inspections in a timely manner, while completing nuisance abatement actions.
         g.   Whether or not a responsible person has applied for extensions to
a technical code permit or renewed an expired permit, as well as the number of
extensions and renewals that a responsible person has previously sought or
obtained from the city.
         h.   Whether or not a responsible person has made substantial
progress, as determined by the city, in performing nuisance abatement actions
under a technical code permit that has expired, or is about to expire.
         i.   Whether delays in completing nuisance abatement actions under a
technical code permit have occurred, and the reason(s) for such delays.
      3.   Real property, or any building or structure thereon, that is
abandoned, uninhabited, or vacant (irrespective of whether said structure is
secured against unauthorized entry) for a period of more than six (6) months.
      4.   Any building or structure which has any or all of the following
conditions or defects:
         a.   Whenever any door, aisle, passageway, stairway, or other means of
exit is not of sufficient width or size, or it is not so arranged as to provide
safe and adequate means of exit, in case of fire or panic, for all persons
housed or assembled therein who would be required to, or might, use such door,
aisle, passageway, stairway, or other means of exit.
         b.   Whenever the stress in any materials, member or portion thereof,
due to all dead and live loads, is more than one and one-half (11/2) times the
working stress or stresses allowed in the building code.
         c.   Whenever any portion thereof has been damaged by earthquake,
wind, flood, or by any other cause, in such a manner that the structural
strength or stability thereof is appreciably less than it was before such
catastrophe and is less than the minimum requirements of this code for a new
building of similar structure, purpose or location.
         d.   Whenever any portion or member or appurtenance thereof is likely
to fail, or to become detached or dislodged, or to collapse and thereby injure
persons or damage property.
         e.   Whenever any portion of a building, or any member, appurtenance
or ornamentation on the exterior thereof is not of sufficient strength or
stability, or is not so anchored, attached or fastened in place so as to be
capable of resisting a wind pressure of one and one-half (11/2) that specified
in the California building code or California residential code (or other
applicable building regulation) without exceeding the working stresses
permitted in the California building code or California residential code (or
other applicable building regulation).
         f.   Whenever any portion thereof has settled to such an extent that
walls or other structural portions have materially less resistance to winds or
earthquakes than is required in the case of new construction.
         g.   Whenever the building or structure, or any portion thereof,
because of dilapidation, or because of the removal or movement of some portion
of the ground necessary for the purpose of supporting such building or portion
thereof, or some other cause, is likely to partially or completely collapse, or
some portion of the foundation or underpinning is likely to fall or give way.
         h.   Whenever, for any reason whatsoever, the building or structure,
or any portion thereof, is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is
used.
         i.   Whenever the exterior walls or other vertical structural members
list, lean or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the
center of gravity does not fall inside the middle one-third (1/3) of the base.
         j.   Whenever the building or structure, exclusive of the foundation,
shows thirty three percent (33%) or more of damage or deterioration to the
member or members, or fifty percent (50%) of damage or deterioration of a
nonsupporting enclosing or outside wall or covering.
         k.   Whenever the building or structure has been so damaged by fire,
wind, earthquake, or flood, or has become so dilapidated or deteriorated as to
become an attractive nuisance to children who might play therein to their
danger, or as to afford a harbor for vagrants, criminals or immoral persons, or
as to enable persons to resort thereto for the purpose of committing nuisance
or unlawful or immoral acts.
         l.   Any building or structure which has been constructed or which now
exists or is maintained in violation of any specific requirement or
prohibition, applicable to such building or structure, of the building
regulations of this city, as set forth in the building code or uniform housing
code, or of any law or ordinance of this state or city relating to the
condition, location or structure of buildings.
         m.   Any building or structure which, whether or not erected in
accordance with all applicable laws and ordinances, has in any nonsupporting or
in any supporting member less than sixty six percent (66%) of the strength,
fire resisting qualities or characteristics required by law or ordinance in the
case of like area, height and occupancy in the same location.
         n.   Whenever a building or structure, used or intended to be used for
dwelling purposes, because of dilapidation, decay, damage, or faulty
construction or arrangement, or otherwise, is unsanitary or unfit for human
habitation or is in a condition that is likely to cause sickness or disease
when so determined by the health officer, or is likely to work injury to the
health, safety or general welfare of those living within.
         o.   Whenever the building or structure, used or intended to be used
for dwelling purposes, has light, air, ventilation, heating, and sanitation
facilities inadequate to protect the health, safety or general welfare of
persons living within.
         p.   Whenever any building or structure by reason of obsolescence,
dilapidated condition, deterioration, damage, electric wiring, gas connections,
heating apparatus, or other cause, is in such condition as to be a fire hazard
and is so situated as to endanger life or other buildings or property in the
vicinity or provide a ready fuel supply to augment the spread and intensity of
fire arising from any cause.
      5.   Exterior portions of buildings or structures (including, but not
limited to, roofs, balconies, decks, fences, stairs, stairways, walls, signs
and fixtures), as well as sidewalks, walkways, pedestrianways, driveways,
parking areas, and any detached or freestanding structure, that have become
defective, unsightly or no longer viable, or are maintained in a condition of
dilapidation, deterioration or disrepair to such an extent as to result in, or
tend to result in, a diminution in property values, or where such condition
creates a hazard to persons using said building, structure, or way, or where
such condition interferes with the peaceful use, possession and/or enjoyment of
adjacent properties, or where such condition otherwise violates, or is contrary
to, this code, or other applicable law.
      6.   Failure to provide and maintain adequate weather protection to
structures or buildings, in such a manner that results in or tends to result in
the existence of cracked, peeling, warped, rotted, or severely damaged paint,
stucco or other exterior covering.
      7.   Broken, defective, damaged, dilapidated, or missing windows, doors,
or vents in a building or structure, and/or broken, defective, damaged,
dilapidated, or missing screens for windows, doors, or crawl spaces in a
building or structure.
      8.   Windows or doors that remain boarded up or sealed after ten (10)
calendar days' written city notice to a responsible person requesting the
removal of these coverings and the installation of fully functional or operable
windows or doors. City actions to board up or seal windows or doors in order to
deter unauthorized entry into structures shall not relieve responsible persons
from installing fully functional or operational windows or doors.
      9.   Obstructions of any kind, cause or form that interfere with required
light or ventilation for a building or structure, or that interfere with,
hinder, delay, or impede ingress therein and/or egress therefrom.
      10.   Abandoned personal property that is visible from public or private
property.
      11.   Any form of an attractive nuisance.
      12.   Interior portions of buildings or structures (including, but not
limited to, attics, ceilings, walls, floors, basements, mezzanines, and common
areas) that have become defective, unsightly, or are maintained in a condition
of dilapidation, deterioration or disrepair to such an extent as to result in,
or tend to result in, a diminution in property values, or where such condition
interferes with the peaceful use, possession and/or enjoyment of properties in
the vicinity, or where such condition otherwise violates, or is contrary to,
this code or other applicable law.
      13.   Items of junk, trash, debris, or other personal property that are
kept, placed, or stored inside of a structure or on exterior portions of real
property that constitute a fire or safety hazard or a violation of any
provision of this code; or items of junk, trash, debris, or other personal
property that are visible from public or private real property, or that are
otherwise out of conformity with neighboring community standards to such an
extent as to result in, or tend to result in, a diminution in property values.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the existence of a junkyard is not a nuisance
when such use and the premises on which such use occurs are in full compliance
with all provisions of the Temple City zoning code (including all approvals and
permits required thereby), and all other applicable provisions of the Temple
City municipal code and any future amendments and additions thereto, as well as
applicable county, state, and/or federal laws and regulations.
      14.   The keeping or disposing of, or the scattering or accumulating of
flammable, combustible or other materials including, but not limited to,
composting, firewood, lumber, junk, trash, debris, packing boxes, pallets,
plant cuttings, tree trimmings or wood chips, discarded items, or other
personal property on exterior portions of real property, or within any building
or structure thereon, when such items or accumulations:
         a.   Render premises unsanitary or substandard as defined by the
Temple City housing code, the state housing law, the Temple City building code,
or other applicable local, state, or federal law, rule, or regulation;
         b.   Violate the Temple City health code, Los Angeles County health
code, or any other health code adopted by and/or applicable in the city of
Temple City;
         c.   Cause, create, or tend to contribute to, a fire or safety hazard;
         d.   Harbor, promote, or tend to contribute to, the presence of rats,
vermin and/or insects;
         e.   Cause, create, or tend to contribute to, an offensive odor; or
         f.   Cause the premises to be out of conformity with neighboring
community standards to such an extent as to result in, or tend to result in, a
diminution of property values. Provided, however, that this use of land or
condition shall not constitute a nuisance when expressly permitted under the
applicable zone classification and the premises are in full compliance with all
provisions of the Temple City zoning code, and all other applicable provisions
of the Temple City municipal code and any future amendments and additions
thereto, as well as applicable county, state, and/or federal laws and
regulations.
      15.   Unsanitary, polluted or unhealthful pools, ponds, standing water or
excavations containing water that constitute an attractive nuisance or that are
otherwise likely to harbor mosquitoes, insects or other vectors. The likelihood
of insect harborage is evidenced by any of the following conditions: water
which is unclear, murky, clouded or green; water containing bacterial growth,
algae, insect larvae, insect remains, or animal remains; or bodies of water
which are abandoned, neglected, unfiltered or otherwise improperly maintained.
      16.   Holiday lights, decorations, or displays that are erected,
installed, displayed, or maintained on exterior portions of real property more
than thirty (30) calendar days before a federal, state, or religious holiday
and/or more than fifteen (15) calendar days after a federal, state, or
religious holiday.
      17.   The hanging, drying, or airing of clothing or household fabrics on
fences, trees, or shrubberies, or the existence of clotheslines, in front yard
areas of any real property, or in any yard area that is visible from a public
right of way.
      18.   Canopies, tents, tarps, or other similar membrane structures
located in the front yard of any real property in excess of seventy two (72)
hours, unless otherwise authorized pursuant to a permit or other entitlement
from the city.
      19.   Overgrown vegetation including, but not limited to, any one of the
following:
         a.   Vegetation likely to harbor, or promote the presence of, rats,
vermin and/or insects.
         b.   Vegetation causing detriment to neighboring properties, or that
is out of conformity with neighboring community standards to such an extent as
to result in, or contribute to, a diminution of property values, including, but
not limited to:
            (1)   Lawns with grass in excess of six inches (6") in height.
            (2)   Hedges, trees, lawns, plants, or other vegetation that are
not maintained in a neat, orderly, and healthy manner as a result of lack of
adequate mowing, grooming, trimming, pruning, fertilizing, watering, and/or
replacement.
         c.   Vegetation that creates, or tends to create, the existence of a
fire hazard.
         d.   Vegetation that overhangs or grows onto or into any public
property, including, but not limited to, any public alley, highway, land,
sidewalk, street or other right of way, so as to cause an obstruction to any
person or vehicle using such public property.
         e.   Tree branches or other vegetation within five feet (5') of the
rooftop of a structure so as to facilitate rodent or animal access thereto.
      20.   Dead, decayed, diseased or hazardous trees, weeds, ground cover,
and other vegetation, or the absence of healthful vegetation, that causes,
contributes to, or tends to cause or contribute to, any one of the following
conditions or consequences:
         a.   An attractive nuisance;
         b.   A fire hazard;
         c.   The creation or promotion of dust or soil erosion;
         d.   A diminution in property values; or
         e.   A detriment to public health, safety or welfare.
      21.   Lack of landscaping or other ground cover in any yard area as
otherwise required by the Temple City zoning code or other provisions of the
city's municipal code.
      22.   Waste containers, yard waste containers, and recycling containers
that are kept, placed or stored in driveways or parking areas, or in front or
side yards, such that said containers are visible from public streets, except
when placed in places of collection at times permitted and in full compliance
with this code.
      23.   The use, parking, or storing of any recreational vehicle as
temporary or permanent living space.
      24.   Vehicles, trailers, campers, boats, recreational vehicles, and/or
other mobile equipment placed, parked or stored in violation of any provision
of the Temple City municipal code, including the Temple City zoning code.
      25.   Vehicles, trailers, campers, boats, recreational vehicles, and/or
other mobile equipment placed, parked, or stored on any unpaved surface within
the front yard setback of any real property.
      26.   Parking spaces required by the Temple City municipal code,
including the Temple City zoning code, that are not maintained in such a manner
that said spaces are continuously free, accessible, and available for vehicle
parking without the movement of real or personal property.
      27.   Abandoned, dismantled, inoperable or wrecked boats, campers,
motorcycles, trailers, vehicles, or parts thereof, unless kept, placed, parked,
or stored inside of a completely enclosed, lawfully constructed building or
structure.
      28.   Commercial vehicles or equipment placed, parked, or stored on any
private real property that is located within a residential zone of the city or
any other private real property used for residential purposes, except when the
commercial vehicle is parked in connection with, and in the aid of, the
performance of a service to or on the private real property where it is parked
until such service is completed.
      29.   Vehicles, construction equipment, or other machinery exceeding the
permissible gross vehicle weight for the streets or public property upon which
they are located. A nuisance also exists under this provision when a vehicle,
construction equipment, or other machinery is stopped, kept, placed, parked, or
stored on private real property and when such vehicle, equipment, or machinery
exceeds the permissible gross vehicle weight for the streets or public property
that were utilized in its placement on said private real property unless
pursuant to a valid permit issued by the city.
      30.   Any equipment, machinery, or vehicle of any type or description
that is designed, used, or maintained for construction type activities that is
kept, parked, placed, or stored on public or private real property except when
such item is being used during excavation, construction, or demolition
operations at the site where said equipment, machinery, or vehicle is located
pursuant to an active permit issued by the city.
      31.   Maintenance of signs, or sign structures, on real property relating
to uses no longer lawfully conducted or products no longer lawfully sold
thereon, or signs and their structures that are in disrepair or which are
otherwise in violation of, or contrary to, the Temple City municipal code,
including the Temple City zoning code.
      32.   Specialty structures that have been constructed for a specific
single use only, and which are unfeasible to convert to other uses, and which
are abandoned, partially destroyed or are permitted to remain in a state of
partial destruction or disrepair. Such specialty structures include, but are
not limited to, the following: tanks for gas or liquid(s), lateral support
structures and bulkheads, utility high voltage towers and poles, utility high
rise support structures, electronic transmitting antennas and towers,
structures which support or house mechanical and utility equipment and are
located above the rooflines of existing buildings, high rise freestanding
chimneys and smokestacks, and recreational structures such as tennis courts and
cabanas.
      33.   Any personal property or structure that obstructs or encroaches on
any public property, including, but not limited to, any public alley, highway,
land, sidewalk, street or other right of way, unless a valid encroachment
permit has been issued authorizing said encroachment or obstruction.
      34.   Causing, maintaining or permitting graffiti or other defacement of
real or personal property to be present or to remain on a building, structure
or vehicle, or portion thereof, that is visible from a public right of way or
from private real property.
      35.   Storage of hazardous or toxic materials or substances, as so
classified by any local, state or federal laws or regulations, on real property
in such a manner as to be injurious, or potentially injurious or hazardous, to
the public health, safety or welfare, or to adjacent properties, or that
otherwise violates local, state or federal laws or regulations.
      36.   Any discharge of any substance or material other than stormwater
which enters, or could possibly enter, the city's storm sewer system in
violation of this code.
      37.   Nudity upon public property or upon any portion of private property
that is visible from public property.
         a.   This section shall not apply to children under the age of ten
(10) years; the exposure of a breast while breastfeeding a nursing child;
nudity within a fully enclosed structure intended to allow brief nudity, such
as a bathroom, locker room, dressing room, or changing room; as otherwise
permitted by applicable law.
      38.   Maintenance of any tarp or similar covering on or over any graded
surface or hillside, except in the following circumstances:
         a.   A state of emergency has been declared by local, county, state,
or federal officials directly impacting the area to be covered; and/or
         b.   Covering with a tarp performed pursuant to an active building or
grading permit.
      39.   Maintenance of any tarp or similar covering on or over any roof of
any structure, except during periods of active rainfall, or when specifically
permitted under an active roofing or building permit.
      40.   Maintenance of any tarp or similar covering attached to, affixed
to, or located on a fence for purposes of screening or for providing shade.
      41.   The keeping or suffering of any animal, reptile, or insect in a
manner that poses a threat, disturbance, or menace to persons or property, or
in such a manner or quantity that otherwise violates any provision of this
Code.
      42.   Any noise that is made, generated, produced, or continued in such a
manner that it unreasonably disturbs the peace and quiet of any neighborhood or
which causes any discomfort or annoyance to any reasonable person of normal
sensitivities, or that otherwise violates any provision of this Code, including
the noise limits set forth in the Temple City Zoning Code. Factors which shall
be considered in determining whether the noise is a nuisance shall include, but
not be limited to, the following:
         a.   The volume of the noise;
         b.   The intensity of the noise;
         c.   Whether the nature of the noise is usual or unusual;
         d.   Whether the origin of the noise is natural or unnatural;
         e.   The volume and intensity of the background noise, if any;
         f.   The proximity of the noise to residential sleeping facilities;
         g.   The nature of the zoning of the area from which the noise
emanates;
         h.   The density of inhabitation of the area from which the noise
emanates;
         i.   The time of day or night the noise occurs;
         j.   The duration of the noise;
         k.   Whether the noise is recurrent, intermittent, or constant;
         l.   Whether the noise is produced by commercial or noncommercial
activity; and
         m.   Whether the noise is a consequence or expected result of an
otherwise lawful use.
      43.   Maintenance of premises so out of harmony or conformity with the
maintenance standards of properties in the vicinity as to cause, or that tends
to cause, substantial diminution of the enjoyment, use, or property values of
such properties in the vicinity.
      44.   Any condition recognized in local or State law or in equity as
constituting a public nuisance, or any condition existing on real property that
constitutes, or tends to constitute, blight, or that is a health or safety
hazard to the community or neighboring properties.
      45.   Any unattended collection box not in conformance with the
regulations of section
9-1T-11 of this Code.
   B.   Any "unsafe building", "unsafe structure", "substandard building", or
"substandard property" as defined by the Los Angeles County Building Code or
Los Angeles County Residential Code, as adopted and amended by this Code.
   C.   Any building or structure, or portion thereof, or the premises on which
the same is located, in which there exists any of the conditions listed in
section 17920.3 of the California Health and Safety Code, and any future
amendments thereto.
   D.   Any building or structure used by any person to engage in acts which
are prohibited pursuant to the laws of the United States or the State of
California, the provisions of this Code, or any other ordinance of this City,
including, but not limited to, the following acts:
      1.   Unlawful possession, use, and/or sale of controlled substances; and/
or
      2.   Prostitution; and/or
      3.   Unlawful gambling.
   E.   Any real property, or any building or structure thereon, that is used
by persons to cause, allow, contribute to, permit, or suffer any of the
following acts:
      1.   Disturbances of the peace;
      2.   Excessive and/or loud noise disturbances;
      3.   Consumption of alcohol in public and/or public intoxication;
      4.   Urination in public;
      5.   Harassment of passersby;
      6.   Theft, assault, battery, or vandalism;
      7.   Storage or sale of stolen goods;
      8.   Excessive littering;
      9.   Illegal parking or traffic violations;
      10.   Curfew violations;
      11.   School attendance violations;
      12.   Lewd and/or lascivious conduct; and/or
      13.   Excessive responses by the Police Department or other law
enforcement personnel.
   F.   Any condition, use, or activity that constitutes a public nuisance as
defined by sections 3479 or 3480 of the California Civil Code, and any future
amendments thereto.
   G.   Any building, structure, or use of real property that violates or fails
to comply with: 1) any applicable approval, permit, license, or entitlement or
condition relating thereto, 2) any ordinance of the City, including, but not
limited to, any provision of this Code, or 3) any applicable County, State, or
Federal law or regulation.
(Ord. 11-950; amd. Ord. 17-1026; Ord. 24-1075)
4-2C-3: PENALTY:
   A.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Code to the contrary, any
person who causes, permits, suffers, or maintains a public nuisance, or any
person who violates any provision of this article, or who fails to comply with
any obligation or requirement of this article, is guilty of a misdemeanor
offense punishable in accordance with title 1, chapter 2 of this Code. A
criminal prosecution and/or civil litigation may be initiated without the
commencement of the "nuisance abatement" procedures outlined in part 2 of this
article.
   B.   Each person shall be guilty of a separate offense for each and every
day, or part thereof, during which a violation of this article, or of any law
or regulation referenced herein, is allowed, committed, continued, maintained
or permitted by such person, and shall be punishable accordingly. (Ord. 11-950)
PART 2. ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES FOR ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES
4-2C-10: ABATEMENT OF PUBLIC NUISANCES:
All conditions or uses that constitute a "public nuisance" as defined in part 1
of this article, or that are contrary to, or in violation of, any other
provision or requirement of this Code, or of any applicable County or State
law, or regulation thereof, which shall also constitute a public nuisance,
shall be abated by repair, rehabilitation, demolition, removal or termination.
The procedures for abatement in this part shall not be exclusive and shall not,
in any manner, limit or restrict the City from pursuing any other remedies
available at law, whether civil, equitable or criminal, or from enforcing City
codes and adopted ordinances, or from abating or causing abatement of public
nuisances, in any other manner provided by law. (Ord. 11-950)
4-2C-11: CONTINUING OBLIGATION OF RESPONSIBLE PERSONS TO ABATE A PUBLIC
NUISANCE:
   A.   No person shall allow, cause, create, permit, suffer or maintain a
public nuisance to exist on their premises. If public nuisances do arise or
occur, responsible persons shall promptly abate them by repair, rehabilitation,
demolition, repair, removal or termination with all required City approvals,
permits and inspections, when applicable.
   B.   The City may exercise its administrative, civil/injunctive and criminal
remedies, or any one or combination of these remedies, to compel responsible
persons to abate a public nuisance when, in its judgment, such persons have not
completed nuisance abatement actions in a timely or proper manner, or when
responsible persons have failed to prevent an occurrence or recurrence of a
public nuisance. (Ord. 11-950)
4-2C-12: NOTICE OF PUBLIC NUISANCE AND INTENTION TO ABATE WITH CITY PERSONNEL:
   A.   Whenever a code enforcement officer or other public official determines
that city personnel may need to abate a public nuisance, he or she shall serve
a written "notice of public nuisance and intention to abate with city
personnel" (hereafter in this section and in subsequent sections of this
article, the "notice of abatement") on the responsible person(s) that contains
the following provisions:
      1.   The address of the real property on which the nuisance condition(s)
exists.
      2.   A description of the nuisance condition(s).
      3.   A reference to the law describing or prohibiting the nuisance
condition(s).
      4.   A brief description of the required corrective action(s); and
      5.   A compliance period in which to complete the nuisance abatement
actions (with all required city approvals, permits and inspections, when
applicable).
      6.   The period and manner in which a responsible person may contest the
notice of abatement as set forth in section
4-2C-13 of this article. No such right shall exist when the city is not seeking
to establish the right to abate a public nuisance with city forces or contract
agents.
      7.   A statement that the city may record a declaration of substandard
property with the Los Angeles County recorder's office against the premises if
the public nuisance is not fully abated or corrected (with all required
approvals, permits and inspections), as determined by the city, with the
compliance period specified in the notice of abatement, provided that a timely
appeal therefrom has not been made.
   B.   The procedure in subsection A of this section shall not apply to public
nuisances constituting an imminent hazard. In such instances, the provisions in
section
4-2C-17, "Emergency Action To Abate An Imminent Hazard", of this article shall
be followed.
   C.   The city's election to issue a notice of abatement pursuant to this
section shall not excuse responsible persons from their continuing obligation
to abate a public nuisance in accordance with all applicable laws, regulations
and legal requirements. Furthermore, the issuance of a notice of abatement
shall not obligate the city to abate a public nuisance. (Ord. 11-950)
4-2C-12-1:   ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR DEMOLITION OF BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES:
   A.   The city shall provide responsible persons with a reasonable period to
elect between options of repair, rehabilitation, or demolition, as well as a
reasonable period of time to complete any of these options, before city
personnel abate a public nuisance by demolishing a building or structure
pursuant to this part.
   B.   The city shall serve a notice of abatement on all secured lienholders
of record with the Los Angeles County recorder's office in the event abatement
actions include demolition of a building or structure.
   C.   Notwithstanding the provisions of section
4-2C-13-1 of this article, entry onto any real property to abate a public
nuisance by demolition of a building or structure, excepting in cases involving
an imminent hazard, shall be pursuant to a warrant issued by a court of
competent jurisdiction.
   D.   The provisions of this section shall not apply if demolition is
required to address an imminent hazard. In such situation, the provisions of
section
4-2C-17, "Emergency Action To Abate An Imminent Hazard", of this article shall
apply. (Ord. 11-950)
4-2C-12-2:   NOTICE AND ORDER TO VACATE BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES:
   A.   If the building official, fire chief, and/or health official (or
designees thereof) determine that a public nuisance exists at real property (or
any buildings or structures thereon) to such an extent that said property (or
any building or structure thereon) is immediately dangerous to the life, limb,
property, or safety of the occupants of the property or the general public, the
building or structure shall be ordered to be vacated.
   B.   If any building or structure is ordered vacated pursuant to this
section, the notice of abatement issued pursuant to section
4-2C-12 of this article, in addition to the information required pursuant to
section
4-2C-12 of this article, shall include:
      1.   A determination that the building official, fire chief, and/or
health official (or designees thereof) has determined that the property (and/or
any building or structure thereon) constitutes an immediate danger to the life,
limb, property, or safety of the occupants of the property or the general
public;
      2.   A reference to the specific building(s) and/or structure(s) which
is/are being ordered vacated;
      3.   The date and/or time when the order to vacate becomes effective; and
      4.   Language that substantially states that:
No person shall remain in or enter any building or structure that has been
ordered vacated until authorized to do so by the Building Official, Fire Chief,
and/or Health Official. No person shall remove, alter, or deface this Notice
after it has been posted at the property referenced herein until all required
repairs, demolition, or removal have been completed in accordance with this
Notice and until such time as the removal of this Notice has been authorized by
the Building Official, Fire Chief, and/or Health Official. Any person violating
this Order to Vacate shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 11-950)
4-2C-12-3:   SAMPLE NOTICE OF ABATEMENT:
   A.   The notice of abatement shall be written in a form that is
substantially consistent with the following:
   Notice of Public Nuisance(s) and
   Intention to Abate with City Personnel
   ("Notice of Abatement")
   [Date]
       [Responsible Person(s)]
       [Mailing Address]
       [City, State and Zip Code]
Re:   Real Property at                               , Temple City, CA
      L.A. County A.P.N.:                               
      Legal description [Optional]:                          
   Notice is hereby given that the following public nuisance conditions or
activities exist on the premises described above:
   (1)   [Describe condition or activities]
                                                                      in
violation of Temple City Municipal Code [as well as County and State laws, if
applicable] Section(s)                            .
      (a) Required Corrective Action(s):
                                                   (with all required permits,
approvals and inspections).
      (b) Required Completion Date:
                                                     [Repeat (1 a-b) for each
additional public nuisance to be included in this notice]
   The foregoing public nuisance conditions are subject to abatement by repair,
rehabilitation, demolition, removal or termination.
   Please Take Further Notice that you may appeal this Notice of Abatement by
filing an appeal on a City approved form with the City Clerk's office (located
at 9701 Las Tunas Drive, Temple City) within ten (10) calendar days of service
of this notice. No fee shall be due for the filing of an appeal. Failure of the
City Clerk to receive a timely appeal constitutes a waiver of your right to any
further administrative appeal and renders the Notice of Abatement final and
binding. A written request for an appeal shall contain the following
information, as well as any other information deemed necessary for the
processing of the appeal by the City Manager or designee:
      1. Name, address, and telephone number of each responsible party who is
appealing the Notice of Abatement (hereinafter, "appellant"), as well as
relationship of appellant to the public nuisance described in the Notice of
Abatement.
      2. Address and description of real property upon which the City intends
to enter and abate a public nuisance.
      3. Date of Notice of Abatement being appealed.
      4. Specific action or decision being appealed.
      5. Grounds for appeal in sufficient detail to enable the Hearing Officer
to understand the nature of the controversy.
      6. The signature of at least one appellant.
Following appeal, in the case of a final decision by the City, judicial review
of this decision is subject to the provisions and time limits set forth in
California Code of Civil Procedure sections 1094.6 et seq.
   Please Take Further Notice that, if the public nuisance violations are not
abated within the time specified in this Notice and a timely appeal is not
made, such nuisance may be abated by City employees, representatives or
contract agents (hereafter "City Personnel"), in the manner stated in this
Notice of Abatement. On such occasions, all costs of the abatement, including,
but not limited to, those stated in Article C, Chapter 2, Title 4 of the Temple
City Municipal Code, shall be assessed against the responsible person(s) and/or
the subject property, as a lien, or as a special assessment, or as otherwise
allowed by law.
   Please Take Further Notice that the City may record a Declaration of
Substandard Property with the Los Angeles County Recorder's Office against the
premises if the public nuisance is not fully abated or corrected (with all
required approvals, permits and inspections), as determined by the City, in the
manner and time set forth in this Notice of Abatement and provided that a
timely appeal therefrom has not been made.
   Please Take Further Notice that, in the event of abatement by City
Personnel, all buildings, structures, and/or personal property constituting a
public nuisance may be removed from the subject premises or from public
property and destroyed or disposed of, without regard to its actual or salvage
value.
Dated: This                 day of                     , 20        .
                                             
   Public Official [Name and Title]
A notice of abatement shall be deemed in substantial compliance with this
subsection regardless of form if all substantive information is contained in
such notice of abatement. (Ord. 11-950)
4-2C-12-4:   SERVICE OF NOTICE:
   A.   Except as otherwise expressly required by a provision of this article,
any notice required by this article may be served by personal delivery to any
responsible person or by first class mail. The date of service shall be the
date it is personally delivered or placed in a U.S. postal service receptacle.
Failure of any responsible person to receive a properly addressed notice of
abatement by mail shall not invalidate any action or proceeding pursuant to
this article.
      1.   Any notice of abatement that includes an order to vacate shall, in
addition to being served upon a responsible party in accordance with this
subsection A, shall also be posted at or upon each exit of the building or
structure being ordered vacated.
   B.   Except as otherwise expressly required by a provision of this article,
any notice issued to an owner of real property shall be sent to the mailing
address on the last equalized assessment roll of the Los Angeles County
assessor's office. Failure of any owner to receive a properly addressed notice
by mail shall not invalidate any action or proceeding pursuant to this article.
(Ord. 11-950)
4-2C-13: RIGHT OF APPEAL FROM A NOTICE OF ABATEMENT:
   A.   A responsible person may contest a notice of abatement by filing a
written request for an appeal with the city clerk's office (located at 9701 Las
Tunas Drive, Temple City) within ten (10) calendar days of service of the
notice of abatement. No fee shall be due for the filing of an appeal.
      1.   The filing of a request for an appeal shall not stay an order to
vacate any building or structure issued in accordance with the provisions of
this article by the building official and/or fire chief to vacate.
   B.   A written request for an appeal shall contain the following
information:
      1.   Name, address, and telephone number of each responsible party who is
appealing the notice of abatement (hereinafter, "appellant").
      2.   Address and description of real property upon which the city intends
to enter and abate a public nuisance.
      3.   Date of notice of abatement being appealed.
      4.   Specific action or decision being appealed.
      5.   Grounds for appeal in sufficient detail to enable the hearing
officer to understand the nature of the controversy.
      6.   The signature of at least one appellant.
   C.   Failure of the city clerk to receive a timely appeal constitutes a
waiver of the right to contest a notice of abatement. In this event, the notice
of abatement is final and binding.
   D.   The provisions of this section only apply to instances where the city
has elected to establish the right, but not the obligation, to abate public
nuisances with city personnel. In no event does this article limit the right of
city officials to issue alternative written or oral notices of code violations
to responsible persons or to cause the abatement of public nuisances in a
different manner, including, without limitation, by court orders arising from
the city's exercise of its criminal or civil remedies. In such instances, a
responsible person shall receive a right to hearing and other due process
rights through the court process. (Ord. 11-950)
4-2C-13-1:   CONSEQUENCE OF AN UNTIMELY APPEAL:
   A.   If a timely appeal is not received by the city clerk, the right to
appeal is waived and the notice of abatement is final and binding. In such
instances, the city may, without any administrative hearing, cause the
abatement with city personnel of any or all of the nuisance conditions or
activities stated in the notice of abatement. Entry onto private real property
that is both improved and occupied shall, excepting instances of an imminent
hazard, be pursuant to a warrant from a court of competent jurisdiction. The
city shall follow the procedures stated in this article for recovery of all
abatement costs, fees and expenses (incidental or otherwise).
   B.   Nothing contained in this article shall obligate the city to undertake
abatement actions pursuant to a notice of abatement, whether or not there is a
timely appeal. (Ord. 11-950)
4-2C-14: ABATEMENT BY RESPONSIBLE PERSON PRIOR TO HEARING:
   A.   Any responsible person shall have the right to abate a nuisance in
accordance with the notice of abatement at his or her own expense, provided all
corrective actions are completed with all required city permits, approvals and
inspections, prior to the date the matter is set for a hearing.
   B.   A hearing shall be canceled if all nuisance conditions or activities
are, as determined by the city, fully and lawfully abated prior thereto. (Ord.
11-950)
4-2C-15: REVIEW BY HEARING OFFICER:
   A.   Any responsible person who contests a notice of abatement shall,
subject to filing a timely appeal, obtain review thereof before a hearing
officer. The administrative appeal shall be scheduled no later than sixty (60)
calendar days, and no sooner than ten (10) calendar days, after receipt of a
timely filed request for appeal. The appellants listed on the written request
for an appeal shall be notified in writing of the date, time, and location of
the hearing at least ten (10) calendar days prior to the date of the hearing.
   B.   Any request by an appellant to continue a hearing must be submitted to
the city clerk in writing no later than two (2) business days before the date
scheduled for the hearing. The hearing officer may continue a hearing for good
cause or on his/her own motion; however, in no event may the hearing be
continued for more than thirty (30) calendar days without stipulation by all
parties.
   C.   At the place and time set forth in the notification of appeal hearing,
the hearing officer shall hear and consider the testimony of the appealing
person(s), the issuing officer, and/or their witnesses, as well as any
documentary evidence presented by these persons concerning the alleged public
nuisance(s).
   D.   Appeal hearings are informal, and formal rules of evidence and
discovery do not apply. The city bears the burden of proof to establish a
nuisance exists by a preponderance of evidence. The issuance of a notice of
abatement shall constitute prima facie evidence of the violation and the code
enforcement officer who issued the notice of abatement is not required to
participate in the appeal hearing. The appellant, and the enforcement officer
issuing the notice, as well as all other responsible persons, shall have the
opportunity to present evidence and to present and cross examine witnesses. The
appellant and the enforcement officer issuing the notice of abatement, or other
responsible persons, may represent himself/herself/themselves or be represented
by anyone of his/her/their choice. The appellant, or other interested persons,
may bring an interpreter to the hearing at his/her/their sole expense. The city
may, at its discretion, record the hearing by stenographer or court reporter,
audio recording, or video recording.
   E.   If the appellant fails, or other responsible persons fail, to appear,
or to otherwise submit any admissible evidence demonstrating the nonexistence
of the alleged nuisance(s), the hearing officer shall cancel the hearing and
send a notice thereof to the responsible person(s) by first class mail to the
address(es) stated on the appeal form. A cancellation of a hearing due to
nonappearance of the appellant shall constitute the appellant's waiver of the
right to appeal. In such instances, the notice of abatement is final and
binding. (Ord. 11-950)
4-2C-15-1:   DECISION OF HEARING OFFICER; ORDER OF ABATEMENT:
   A.   Not later than fifteen (15) calendar days following conclusion of the
hearing, the hearing officer shall determine if any nuisance condition exists
at the subject property. If the hearing officer determines that each nuisance
condition described in the notice of abatement is nonexistent, the notice of
abatement shall be deemed canceled. If the hearing officer determines that one
or more of the nuisance conditions described in the notice of abatement exists,
he/she shall issue a written order of abatement which shall contain the
following:
      1.   A finding and description of each nuisance condition existing at the
subject property.
      2.   The name of each person responsible for a nuisance condition or
conditions at the subject property, as well as the name of any person who is
not responsible therefor.
      3.   The required corrective action and a compliance period for each
unabated nuisance condition.
      4.   Any other finding, determination or requirement that is relevant or
related to the subject matter of the appeal.
      5.   The following statement:
The decision of the Hearing Officer is final and binding. Judicial review of
this decision is subject to the provisions and time limits set forth in
California Code of Civil Procedure Sections 1094.6 et seq.
   B.   Notwithstanding any provision of the code to the contrary, the decision
of the hearing officer is final and conclusive.
   C.   A copy of the decision shall be served by first class mail on each
responsible person to whom the notice of abatement was issued. If the owner is
not an appellant, a copy of the order of abatement shall also be served on the
owner by first class mail to the address shown on the last equalized assessment
roll. Failure of a person to receive a properly addressed decision shall not
invalidate any action or proceeding by the city pursuant to this article. (Ord.
11-950)
4-2C-16: ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE BY RESPONSIBLE PERSONS PRIOR TO CITY ABATEMENT
ACTIONS:
   A.   Any responsible person shall have the right to fully abate a nuisance
in accordance with the hearing officer's decision prior to the date of entry of
city personnel upon the subject real property, provided that all corrective
actions are completed with all required city permits, approvals and
inspections, prior to said entry date. In such instances, all administrative
proceedings shall be canceled, with the exception of the city's right to seek
recovery of its incurred incidental expenses, code enforcement fees, and
attorney fees as provided by and pursuant to the provisions of this article.
   B.   Once the city enters a subject real property to abate a public
nuisance, it shall have the right to complete this action.
   C.   It is unlawful and a misdemeanor for any person to obstruct, impede, or
interfere with city personnel in the performance of any act that is carried out
to abate a public nuisance.
   D.   All buildings, structures, and/or personal property that are removed by
city personnel from premises in the abatement of a nuisance shall be lawfully
disposed of or destroyed without regard to its actual or salvage value, if any.
(Ord. 11-950)
4-2C-17: EMERGENCY ACTION TO ABATE AN IMMINENT HAZARD:
   A.   Notwithstanding any provision of this code to the contrary, the police
chief, the fire chief, or the building official, or any of their designees, may
cause a public nuisance to be summarily abated if it is determined that the
nuisance creates an imminent hazard to a person or persons, or to other real or
personal property.
   B.   Prior to abating a nuisance that creates an imminent hazard, the city
manager shall attempt to notify a responsible person by telephone or in writing
of the imminent hazard and request its abatement by said person; provided
however, that the city manager may dispense with any attempt at prior
notification of a responsible person if, in the sole discretion of the city
manager, the nature or severity of the hazard justifies such inaction. If
notice has been so given, but, in the sole discretion of the city manager, the
responsible person(s) fail(s) to take immediate and meaningful steps to abate
the imminent hazard, the city may abate the nuisance with city personnel
without further notice, and charge the costs and fees thereof to the
responsible person(s).
   C.   Within ten (10) business days following emergency action of city
personnel to abate an imminent hazard, the city shall serve any responsible
person with a notice of emergency abatement by city personnel of an imminent
hazard by first class mail. Notice to a property owner shall be mailed to the
mailing address set forth in the last equalized assessment roll of the Los
Angeles County assessor's office. Failure of any responsible person to receive
a properly addressed notice of emergency abatement by city personnel of an
imminent hazard by mail shall not invalidate any action or proceeding pursuant
to this article.
   D.   A notice of emergency abatement by city personnel of an imminent hazard
shall contain the following provisions:
      1.   The name of all known responsible persons who are being served with
the notice of emergency abatement by city personnel of an imminent hazard and
the address of the real property on which the imminent hazard was present.
      2.   A brief description of the condition(s) and reasons why it
constituted an imminent hazard.
      3.   A brief description of the law prohibiting or pertaining to the
imminent hazard.
      4.   A brief description of the actions city personnel took to abate the
imminent hazard.
   E.   Omission of any of the foregoing provisions in a notice of emergency
abatement by city personnel of an imminent hazard, whether in whole or in part,
or the failure of a responsible person to receive said notice, or the failure
of the city to issue said notice in a timely fashion, shall not render it
defective or render any proceeding or action pursuant to this article invalid.
   F.   Emergency abatement of an imminent hazard by city personnel shall not
preclude the city from recording a declaration of substandard property in
accordance with the provisions of section
4-2C-30 of this article, if conditions thereafter remain at the premises that
constitute a violation of law or a public nuisance.
   G.   The city shall be entitled to recover its fees and costs (incidental or
otherwise) for the abatement of an imminent hazard. In such instances, the city
shall follow the procedures set forth in this article. (Ord. 11-950)
4-2C-18: COMBINATION OF NOTICES:
The notices that are authorized by this article may be combined in the
discretion of the city. (Ord. 11-950)
4-2C-19: ESTABLISHMENT OF COSTS OF ABATEMENT:
   A.   The city shall keep an accounting of the abatement costs.
   B.   The city shall serve a statement of abatement costs on the responsible
persons within ninety (90) calendar days of the city's completion of nuisance
abatement actions. Service of this statement may be made in the manner provided
for in section
4-2C-12-4 of this article.
   C.   Unless a timely contest of the statement of abatement costs is filed, a
responsible person shall tender the abatement costs in U.S. currency to the
city within thirty (30) calendar days of the date of service of the statement
of abatement costs.
   D.   A responsible person has the right to contest a statement of abatement
costs by filing a written request for contest with the city clerk's office
(located at 9701 Las Tunas Drive, Temple City) within ten (10) calendar days of
service of the statement of abatement costs.
      1.   A written request for contest shall contain the following
information:
         a.   Name, address, telephone number, and signature of each
responsible person who is contesting the statement of abatement costs.
         b.   Address and description of the real property upon which the city
abated a public nuisance.
         c.   Date of the statement of abatement costs being appealed.
         d.   Description of the specific abatement cost(s) being contested,
and a statement of the grounds for contest in sufficient detail to enable the
city council to understand the nature of the controversy.
      2.   No fee shall be due for the filing of a request for contest.
   E.   Failure of the city clerk to receive a timely appeal request for
contest constitutes a waiver of the right to contest a statement of abatement
costs. In this event, the statement of abatement costs is final and binding,
and the city may proceed to collect its abatement costs as contained in a final
statement of abatement costs in any manner allowed by law.
   F.   If a timely request for contest is received by the city clerk, a
hearing shall be set before the city manager no later than sixty (60) calendar
days, and no sooner than ten (10) calendar days, of receipt of the request for
contest. A notice of the date, time and location of the hearing shall be served
on all responsible persons who contested the statement of abatement costs by
first class mail to the address(es) stated on the request form at least ten
(10) calendar days prior to the hearing. Failure of a person requesting a
contest to receive a properly addressed notice shall not invalidate any action
or proceeding by the city pursuant to this article.
   G.   Any request by an appellant to continue a hearing must be submitted to
the city clerk in writing no later than five (5) business days before the date
scheduled for the hearing. The city manager may continue a hearing for good
cause or on its own motion; however, in no event may the hearing be continued
for more than sixty (60) calendar days without stipulation by all parties.
   H.   At the time and place fixed for receiving and considering the request
to contest the statement of abatement costs, the city manager shall hear and
pass upon the evidence submitted by city personnel, together with any
objections or protests raised by responsible persons liable for said costs.
Testimony and evidence shall be limited to issues related to the abatement
costs, and no person shall be permitted to present evidence or testimony
challenging the existence of a public nuisance or the manner of abatement as
described in the notice of abatement. Thereupon, the city manager may make such
revision, correction or modification to the statement as it may deem just,
after which the statement, as it is submitted, or as revised, corrected or
modified, shall be confirmed. The hearing may be continued from time to time.
   I.   Notwithstanding any provisions of the code to the contrary, the
decision of the city manager is final and binding.
   J.   The city clerk shall cause a confirmed statement of abatement costs to
be served upon all persons who contested the original statement by first class
mail to the address(es) stated on the request form. The city clerk shall cause
a confirmed statement of abatement costs to be served on the owner of the
property on which city personnel abated a public nuisance by first class mail
to the address shown on the last equalized assessment roll (irrespective of
whether the owner contested the statement of abatement costs). This document
shall also contain the following statement:
The determination of the City Manager is final and binding. Judicial review of
the decision is subject to the provisions and time limits set forth in
California Code of Civil Procedure Sections 1094.6 et seq.
   K.   Failure of a person to receive a properly addressed confirmed statement
shall not invalidate any action or proceeding by the city pursuant to this
article.
   L.   A responsible person shall tender the abatement costs in U.S. currency
to the city within thirty (30) calendar days of the date of service of the
confirmed statement of abatement costs. The city may thereafter proceed to
collect its abatement costs as contained in the confirmed statement of
abatement costs in any manner allowed by law. (Ord. 11-950)
4-2C-19-1:   COLLECTION OF ABATEMENT COSTS BY SPECIAL ASSESSMENT:
   A.   The city may cause a special assessment to be made upon real property
upon which a public nuisance was abated pursuant to California Government Code
section 38773.5, and future amendments thereto, in the event a statement of
abatement costs or a confirmed statement of abatement costs is not paid in a
timely manner.
   B.   A notice of special assessment shall be sent to the owner(s) of the
subject real property by certified mail at the time the assessment is imposed
which shall contain the following recitals:
The property may be sold after three years by the tax collector for unpaid
delinquent assessments. The tax collector's power of sale shall not be affected
by the failure of the property owner to receive notice. The assessment may be
collected at the same time and in the same manner as ordinary municipal taxes
are collected, and shall be subject to the same penalties and the same
procedure and sale in case of delinquency as provided for ordinary municipal
taxes. All laws applicable to the levy, collection and enforcement of municipal
taxes shall be applicable to the special assessment. However, if any real
property to which the cost of abatement relates has been transferred or
conveyed to a bona fide purchaser for value, or if a lien of a bona fide
encumbrancer for value has been created and attaches thereon, prior to the date
on which the first installment of the taxes would become delinquent, then the
cost of abatement shall not result in a lien against the real property but
instead shall be transferred to the unsecured roll for collection.
   C.   The city attorney or city prosecutor shall establish the notice of
special assessment form for use, or consideration by, the tax collector in
collecting a special assessment.
   D.   The notice of special assessment shall be entitled to recordation with
the Los Angles County recorder's office.
   E.   The amount of a special assessment shall also constitute a personal
obligation of the property owners of land upon which the nuisance was abated.
(Ord. 11-950)
4-2C-19-2:   COLLECTION OF COSTS OF ABATEMENT BY NUISANCE ABATEMENT LIEN:
   A.   As an alternative to the procedure contained in section
4-2C-19-1 of this article, the city may cause a nuisance abatement lien to be
recorded upon real property upon which a public nuisance was abated pursuant to
California Government Code section 38773.1, and future amendments thereto, in
the event a statement of abatement costs or a confirmed statement of abatement
costs is not paid in a timely manner.
   B.   A lien shall not be recorded prior to serving the owner of record of
the parcel of land on which the public nuisance is maintained, with a notice.
This document shall be served in the same manner as a summons in a civil action
in accordance with article 3 (commencing with section 415.10) of chapter 4 of
title 5 of part 2 of the Code Of Civil Procedure. If the owner of record, after
diligent search cannot be found, the notice may be served by posting a copy
thereof in a conspicuous place upon the property for a period of ten (10) days
and publication thereof in a newspaper of general circulation published in Los
Angeles County pursuant to section 6062 of the California Government Code.
   C.   The nuisance abatement lien shall be recorded in the Los Angeles County
recorder's office in the county in which the parcel of land is located and from
the date of recording shall have the force, effect, and priority of a judgment
lien.
   D.   A nuisance abatement lien authorized by this section shall specify the
amount of the lien for the city of Temple City, the name of the city department
or division on whose behalf the lien is imposed, the date of the abatement
actions, the street address, legal description and assessor's parcel number of
the parcel on which the lien is imposed, and the name and address of the
recorded owner of the parcel.
   E.   In the event that the lien is discharged, released, or satisfied,
either through payment or foreclosure, notice of the discharge containing the
information specified in subsection D of this section shall be recorded by the
city. A nuisance abatement lien and the release of the lien shall be indexed in
the grantor- grantee index.
   F.   A nuisance abatement lien may be foreclosed by an action brought by the
city for a money judgment.
   G.   The city may recover from the property owner any costs incurred
regarding the processing and recording of the lien and providing notice to the
property owner as part of its foreclosure action to enforce the lien.
   H.   The amount of a nuisance abatement lien shall also constitute a
personal obligation of the property owners of land upon which the nuisance was
abated. (Ord. 11-950)
4-2C-20: TREBLE THE COSTS OF ABATEMENT:
Pursuant to California Government Code section 38773.7 (or any subsequent
amendment thereto), upon entry of a second or subsequent civil or criminal
judgment within a two (2) year period finding that an owner of property is
responsible for a public nuisance except for public nuisance conditions abated
pursuant to California Health And Safety Code section 17980 ("state housing
law"), the court may order that person to pay treble the costs of the
abatement. (Ord. 11-950)
4-2C-21: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person who remains in or enters any building or structure that has
been ordered to be vacated pursuant to the provisions of this article is guilty
of a misdemeanor offense punishable in accordance with title 1, chapter 2 of
this code.
   B.   Any responsible person who fails to comply with an order of abatement
by completing each of the requisite corrective actions in the manner and time
set forth in the order of abatement is guilty of a misdemeanor offense
punishable in accordance with title 1, chapter 2 of this code.
   C.   Any person who obstructs, impedes, or interferes with any
representative of the city engaged in vacating, repairing, rehabilitating, or
demolishing and removing any property pursuant to the provisions of this
article is guilty of a misdemeanor offense punishable in accordance with title
1, chapter 2 of this code.
   D.   Any person who defaces, alters, or removes any notice or order posted
as required in this article is guilty of a misdemeanor offense punishable in
accordance with title 1, chapter 2 of this code.
   E.   Each person shall be guilty of a separate offense for each and every
day, or part thereof, during which a violation of this article, or of any law
or regulation referenced herein, is allowed, committed, continued, maintained
or permitted by such person, and shall be punishable accordingly. (Ord. 11-950)
PART 3. RECORDATION, ENFORCEMENT AND ATTORNEY FEES
4-2C-30: RECORDATION OF SUBSTANDARD NOTICE:
   A.   Notwithstanding any provision of this code to the contrary, if the city
determines that any property, building or structure, or any part thereof, is in
violation of any provision of this code and said violation has not been fully
abated or corrected, as determined by the city, in the manner and time provided
in any written notice to a responsible person, then the city, in its sole
discretion, may record a declaration of substandard property with the Los
Angeles County recorder's office against said premises. As used herein, "fully
abated or corrected" includes the procurement of all required city approvals,
permits, licenses and the passage of all city required inspections.
   B.   A declaration of substandard property shall not be recorded unless the
city has first issued a written notice (in any form) to the owner of real
property: 1) identifying and requiring correction of a public nuisance
condition; and 2) disclosing that a declaration of substandard property may be
recorded against the real property if the public nuisance condition(s) is/are
not fully abated or corrected in the manner and time delineated in said notice,
as determined by the city.
      1.   If the notice required pursuant to this subsection B was comprised
of a "notice of abatement" as defined in this article or of an administrative
citation issued pursuant to title 1, chapter 4 of this code, a declaration of
substandard property shall not be recorded unless the notice of abatement and/
or administrative citation is deemed a final and binding city decision.
   C.   The form that constitutes a declaration of substandard property shall
be approved by the city attorney or the city prosecutor.
   D.   The city shall record a notice of rescission of declaration of
substandard property with the Los Angeles County recorder's office within ten
(10) business days of its determination that a violation or a public nuisance
has been fully abated or corrected.
   E.   The city shall cause copies of recorded declarations of substandard
property and notices of rescission of declaration of substandard property to be
served on all persons having an ownership interest in the subject real property
as shown in the last equalized assessment roll of the Los Angeles County
assessor's office. Service thereof shall be by first class mail. Failure of any
person to receive such notices shall not invalidate any action or proceeding
pursuant to this article. (Ord. 11-950)
4-2C-31: CODE ENFORCEMENT FEES:
   A.   Pursuant to California Health And Safety Code section 17951, and any
successor statute thereto, responsible persons, who cause, allow, permit,
suffer, or maintain a violation in, or upon, residential properties, shall be
charged fees (hereafter "code enforcement fees") by the city to defray its
costs of code enforcement actions. Such fees shall not exceed the amount
reasonably required to achieve this objective and are chargeable whether the
city's code enforcement actions occur in the absence of formal administrative
or judicial proceedings, as well as prior to, during, or subsequent to, the
initiation of such proceedings.
      1.   Nothing in this section shall be construed to inhibit or prevent the
city from assessing code enforcement fees against and/or collecting code
enforcement fees from those responsible persons who cause, allow, permit,
suffer, or maintain a public nuisance or other violation of this code in or
upon any commercial, industrial, or other real property, in order to defray its
costs of code enforcement actions.
   B.   The amount(s) or rate(s) of code enforcement fees for city personnel
time and other resources that are used for code enforcement actions shall be
established, and may thereafter be amended, by resolution by the city council.
   C.   The city manager, or a designee thereof, is authorized to adopt
regulations for the uniform imposition of code enforcement fees, and for
related administrative actions pertaining to such fees.
   D.   The fees imposed pursuant to this section shall be in addition to any
other fees or charges that responsible persons may owe in accordance with any
other provision of this code, or which are imposed pursuant to county, state or
federal laws or regulations.
   E.   Code enforcement fees shall be recoverable in conjunction with any
civil, administrative or criminal action to abate, cause the abatement or
cessation of, or otherwise remove a violation or a public nuisance, and is not
limited to those proceedings whereby city personnel perform the necessary
abatement actions.
   F.   Failure to pay code enforcement fees shall constitute a debt that is
collectible in any manner allowed by law. (Ord. 11-950)
4-2C-32: RECOVERY OF ATTORNEY FEES:
   A.   A prevailing party in any administrative, civil or equitable judicial
action to abate, or cause the abatement of a "public nuisance" as defined in
this article, or in any appeal or other judicial action arising therefrom, may
recover reasonable attorney fees in accordance with the following subsections:
      1.   Attorney fees are not recoverable by any person as a prevailing
party unless the city manager, or a designee thereof, or an attorney for, and
on behalf of, the city, elects in writing to seek recovery of the city's
attorney fees at the initiation of that individual action or proceeding.
Failure to make such an election precludes any entitlement to, or award of,
attorney fees in favor of any person or the city.
      2.   The city is the prevailing party when an administrative or judicial
determination is made or affirmed by which a person is found to be responsible
for one or more conditions or activities that constitute a public nuisance. A
person is the prevailing party only when a final administrative or judicial
determination completely absolves that person of responsibility for all
conditions or activities that were alleged, in that action or proceeding, to
constitute a public nuisance. An administrative or judicial determination that
results in findings of responsibility and nonresponsibility on the part of a
person for conditions or activities that were alleged in that action or
proceeding to constitute a public nuisance, shall nevertheless result in the
city being the prevailing party.
   B.   Provided that the city has made an election to seek attorney fees, an
award of attorney fees to a person shall not exceed the amount of reasonable
attorney fees incurred by the city in that action or proceeding. (Ord. 11-950)
4-2C-33: APPLICABILITY OF OTHER LAWS:
   A.   This article does not exclusively regulate the conditions and use of
property within the city. This article shall supplement other provisions of
this code and other statutes, ordinances or regulations now existing or
subsequently enacted by the city, the state or any other entity or agency
having jurisdiction.
   B.   The procedures for abatement set forth in this article are not
exclusive and are in addition to any other provisions set forth in this code or
by state law for the abatement of public nuisances. (Ord. 11-950)
ARTICLE D. YARD SALES
SECTION:
4-2D-0: Definition
4-2D-0: DEFINITION:
"Yard" or "garage sales", defined as the advertised sale of five (5) or more
articles of personal property, shall be permitted in residential zones, only if
conducted in accordance with the following:
   A.   That the occupant of a residence shall first obtain a no fee city
permit and that a copy of such permit shall be displayed at the site of the
sale at all times during such sale; and
   B.   That no such sale shall be of a duration in excess of two (2) days; and
   C.   That not more than one such sale shall be permitted during any six (6)
month period; and
   D.   That such sale shall be conducted only on an improved residential lot;
and
   E.   That no portion of the public right of way shall be utilized for such
purposes; and
   F.   That such sales shall be conducted only between the hours of eight
o'clock (8:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M. of any day; and
   G.   That only property lawfully in possession of the occupant of the lot
upon which conducted shall be involved, offered for sale, or sold; and
   H.   That no signs relating to such sale shall be placed on any private
property except one double face sign not to exceed five (5) square feet in area
may be displayed on the sales premises during the hours sales are lawfully
conducted; and
   I.   That no signs or devices relating to such sale shall be placed on any
public property or right of way or public utility facilities excluding legally
parked vehicles; and
   J.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this article is guilty of
an infraction punishable by a fine not to exceed that allowable by California
state law, as set forth by city council resolution. Each such person is guilty
of a separate offense for every day during any portion of which any violation
of any of the provisions of this article is committed, continued or permitted
by such person, and shall be punished therefor as provided by this article.
Pursuant to the provisions of section 36900 of the California Government Code,
the first and second violations of any provisions of this article may be
enforced as "infractions", while any subsequent violations shall be deemed and
enforced as "misdemeanors". (Ord. 95-779)
ARTICLE E. NEWSRACKS
SECTION:
4-2E-0: Newsracks
4-2E-1: Prohibition Of Newsracks On Roadways
4-2E-2: Dangerous Condition Or Obstruction
4-2E-3: Standards For Maintenance And Installation
4-2E-4: Standards For Materials Sold
4-2E-5: Exceptions
4-2E-6: Authority Of City Manager To Adopt Regulations
4-2E-7: Information Required
4-2E-8: Newsracks In Violation Of These Sections
4-2E-9: Appeals
4-2E-10: Other Violations
4-2E-11: Enforcement
4-2E-12: Validity
4-2E-13: Display Of Certain Matter Prohibited
4-2E-14: Definition Of Explicit Sexual Acts
4-2E-15: Encroachment Permit Required; Newsracks
4-2E-16: Application For Encroachment Permit
4-2E-17: Encroachment Permit Fee; Newsracks
4-2E-18: Permittee's Obligations
4-2E-19: Placement Of Permit
4-2E-20: Installation Without Permit
4-2E-21: Revocation Of Permit
4-2E-22: Recovery By Owner
4-2E-23: Surety Bond Or Insurance Policy; Newsracks
4-2E-0: NEWSRACKS:
For the purpose of this section through section
4-2E-10 of this article, certain words and phrases shall be construed as set
forth in this section, unless it is apparent from the context that a different
meaning is intended:
   NEWSRACKS: Any self-service or coin operated box, container, storage unit or
other dispenser installed, used, or maintained for the display and sale of
newspapers or news periodicals.
   PARKWAY: That area between the sidewalks and the curb of any street, and
where there is no sidewalk, that area between the edge of the roadway and the
property line adjacent thereto. "Parkway" shall also include any area within a
roadway which is not open to vehicular travel.
   ROADWAY: That portion of a street improved, designed, or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel.
   SIDEWALK: Any surface provided for the exclusive use of pedestrians.
   STREET: All that area dedicated to public use for public street purposes and
shall include, but not be limited to, roadways, parkways, alleys and sidewalks.
(1960 Code)
4-2E-1: PROHIBITION OF NEWSRACKS ON ROADWAYS:
No person shall install, use or maintain any newsrack or other structure which
projects into, onto or over any part of any roadway of any public street, or
which rests wholly or in part upon, along, over or within eighteen inches (18")
or any portion of the roadway of any public street. (1960 Code)
4-2E-2: DANGEROUS CONDITION OR OBSTRUCTION:
No person shall install, use or maintain any newsracks which in whole or in
part rests upon, in or over any public sidewalk or parkway.
   A.   When such installation, use or maintenance endangers the safety of
persons or property, or which site or location is used for public utility
purposes, public transportation purposes or other governmental use; or
   B.   When such newsrack unreasonably interferes with or impedes the flow of
pedestrian or vehicular traffic including any legally marked or stopped
vehicle, the ingress into or egress from any residence or place of business, or
the use of poles, posts, traffic signs or signals, hydrants, mailboxes, or
other objects permitted at or near said location; or
   C.   When such newsracks are so insufficiently illuminated at night as to
cause a potential hazard to pedestrians. (1960 Code)
4-2E-3: STANDARDS FOR MAINTENANCE AND INSTALLATION:
Any newsrack which is whole or in part rests upon, in or over any public
sidewalk or parkway shall comply with the following standards:
   A.   Newsracks shall not be located in any public right of way except along
primary and secondary streets as identified in the Temple City general plan.
   B.   No newsrack shall exceed four feet (4') in height, thirty inches (30")
in width, or two feet (2') in thickness.
   C.   Newsracks shall only be placed "near" a curb or "adjacent" to the wall
of a building. Newsracks placed "near" the curb shall be placed no less than
eighteen inches (18") nor more than twenty four inches (24") from the edge of
the curb. Newsracks placed "adjacent" to the wall of a building shall be placed
parallel to such wall and not more than six inches (6") from the wall. No
newsrack shall be placed or maintained on the sidewalk or parkway opposite
(within a 30 degree angle) of another newsrack.
   D.   No newsrack shall be chained, bolted or otherwise attached to any
property not owned by the newsrack to any permanently fixed public property or
public utility object.
   E.   Newsracks may be placed next to each other, provided that no group of
newsracks shall extend more than thirty feet (30') along a curb or wall and a
space of no less than twenty five feet (25') shall separate each such group of
newsracks.
   F.   Newsracks may be chained or otherwise attached to one another in
groups, provided no more than three (3) newsracks be joined together in this
manner, and a space of no less than eighteen inches (18") shall separate each
such group.
   G.   No newsrack (or group of attached newsracks allowed under subsection F
of this section) shall weigh in excess of one hundred twenty five (125) pounds
when empty.
   H.   Notwithstanding the provisions of section
4-2E-2 of this article, no newsrack shall be placed, installed, used or
maintained in a public place:
      1.   Within five feet (5') of any marked crosswalk.
      2.   Within fifteen feet (15') of the curb return of any unmarked
crosswalk.
      3.   Within five feet (5') of any fire hydrant, fire call box, police
call box or other emergency facility.
      4.   Within five feet (5') of any driveway.
      5.   Within five feet (5') ahead of any twenty five feet (25') to the
rear of any sign marked a designated bus stop.
      6.   Within six feet (6') of any bus bench.
      7.   At any location whereby the clear space for the passageway of
pedestrians is reduced to less than six feet (6').
      8.   Within three feet (3') of any area improved with lawn, flowers,
shrubs, or trees or within three feet (3') of any display window of any
building abutting the sidewalk or parkway or in such manner as to impede or
interfere with the reasonable use of such window for display purposes.
   I.   No newsrack shall be used for advertising signs or publicity purposes
other than that dealing with the display, sale or purchase of the newspaper or
news periodical sold therein.
   J.   Each newsrack shall be maintained in a clean, neat and attractive
condition and in good repair at all times.
   K.   No newsrack shall be permitted to remain in other than its vertical
position for more than twenty four (24) hours.
   L.   No newsrack may remain empty in excess of three (3) days.
      1.   Material offered for sale must be the current edition of the
publication so offered.
   M.   Newsracks shall be so placed and maintained in such a manner that they
do not:
      1.   Endanger the safety of persons or property.
      2.   Interfere with any governmental use of the sidewalk.
      3.   Unreasonably interfere with pedestrians, including persons leaving
and entering motor vehicles.
      4.   Interfere with the ingress or egress of private property.
      5.   Interfere with the use of mailboxes or traffic signals.
   N.   The city manager or his designee shall have supervision over the
placement, maintenance and removal of all publication vending machines on
public sidewalks in the city of Temple City.
   O.   Newsracks shall be maintained and painted regularly in a satisfactory
manner. Newsracks shall be constructed of a metal type material.
   P.   Each vendor may have no more than two (2) machines in any one location;
in some instances, depending upon space available, the vendor may be limited
one. (1960 Code; amd. Ord. 95-787)
4-2E-4: STANDARDS FOR MATERIALS SOLD:
   A.   No publication defined as "harmful matter" by section 313 of the Penal
Code of the state of California shall be distributed as defined in section
313.1 of said Penal Code in a newsrack upon public property within one hundred
feet (100') of the entrance to any restaurant, theater, school or other place
catering to minors.
   B.   No publication may be offered for sale to the public on any public
right of way by means of such newsrack in such manner as to expose to the
public view any photograph or drawing contained within such publication
displaying any of the following:
      1.   The genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, natal cleft, perineum, anal
region or pubic hair region of any person, other than a child under the age of
puberty.
      2.   Any portion of the breast, at or below the areola, of any female
person, other than a child under the age of puberty.
      3.   Actual or simulated sexual intercourse or sexual conduct prohibited
by the Penal Code.
      4.   Human excrement, feces, urine or semen.
   C.   No single edition of a publication shall remain in a newsrack in excess
of eight (8) days, unless the owner shall first file a statement with the city
clerk indicating such extended sale. Failure to so file such statement shall
constitute a violation of this section.
   D.   Every person is guilty of a misdemeanor who causes, permits, procures,
counsels or assists in an offer of sale of any such publication in violation of
this section.
   E.   Any publication offered for sale in violation of this section
constitutes a public nuisance and a misdemeanor. (1960 Code)
4-2E-5: EXCEPTIONS:
There shall be excepted from the provisions of section
4-2E-4 of this article any publication, display or depiction which:
   A.   Constitutes a violation of any state statute; or
   B.   Is specifically held to be preempted from local regulation by a court
of final resort; or
   C.   Constitutes a photograph of an existing serious work of art; or
   D.   Constitutes a photograph of a current event of a serious social value.
(1960 Code)
4-2E-6: AUTHORITY OF CITY MANAGER TO ADOPT REGULATIONS:
The city manager is hereby empowered to adopt reasonable standards and
regulations to implement the provisions and purposes of these sections based
upon street and pedestrian traffic requirements, access to parking places and
facilities, and public health, safety and welfare. Notice of such additional
regulations shall be given to each newsrack owner five (5) days before becoming
effective. (1960 Code)
4-2E-7: INFORMATION REQUIRED:
Within thirty (30) days after these sections become effective every person or
other entity which places or maintains a newsrack on the streets of the city
shall have his or its name, address and telephone number affixed thereto in a
place where such information may be easily seen. (1960 Code)
4-2E-8: NEWSRACKS IN VIOLATION OF THESE SECTIONS:
Upon determination by the city manager that a newsrack has been installed, used
or maintained or contains matter in violation of the provisions of these
sections, an order to correct the offending condition and request correction of
the condition or content within ten (10) days after the mailing date of the
order or shall result in the offending newsrack being summarily removed. If the
offending newsrack is not properly identified as to owner under the provision
of section
4-2E-4 of this article, it shall be removed immediately, the recovery of the
newsrack and contents by the owner shall be in accordance with section
4-2E-22 of this article.
   A.   If correction is made by the owner, then the city manager shall cause
inspection to be made of the corrected condition. The owner of said newsrack
shall be charged a ten dollar ($10.00) inspection fee for each newsrack so
inspected.
   B.   If correction is not made before removal, and such removal is
completed, the city manager shall notify the owner (if known) that he may pick
up the newsrack and contents, where and when. If the owner fails to make such
pick up and pay a fifteen dollar ($15.00) impound charge within ten (10) days
after such notice, the newsrack and contents may be destroyed. (1960 Code; amd.
Ord. 95-787)
4-2E-9: APPEALS:
Any person or entity aggrieved by a finding, determination, notice or action
taken under the provisions of these sections may appeal and shall be appraised
of their right to appeal to the city council. An appeal must be perfected
within ten (10) days after receipt of notice of any protested decision or
action by filing with the office of the city clerk a letter of appeal briefly
stating therein the basis for such appeal. Appellant shall be given at least
ten (10) days notice of the time and place of the hearing. The city council
shall give the appellant, and any other interested party, reasonable
opportunity to be heard in order to show cause why the determination should not
be upheld. In all such cases, the burden of proof shall be upon the appellant
to show that there was no substantial evidence to support the action taken. At
the conclusion of the hearing, the city council shall make a final and
conclusive determination. (1960 Code; amd. Ord. 95-787)
4-2E-10: OTHER VIOLATIONS:
In the case of violations of these sections relative to restrictions upon
attachments of newsracks to property other than owned by the owner of the
newsracks, to fixed objects or each other, and upon location of newsracks, any
city employee authorized by the city manager may, as an alternative to removal
under section
4-2E-8 of this article, remove such attachment and/or move such rack or racks
in order to restore them to a legal condition. (1960 Code)
4-2E-11: ENFORCEMENT:
Any person, firm or corporation violating this article shall be guilty of an
infraction. The first and second violations may be enforced as infractions
while any subsequent violations shall be deemed and enforced as misdemeanors.
(1960 Code; amd. Ord. 95-787)
4-2E-12: VALIDITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase of this article is for
any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by the decision of any court
of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions of this article. The Temple City council hereby declares
that it should have passed this article, and each section, subsection,
sentence, clause and phrase hereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or
more of the sections, subsections, sentences, clauses or phrases hereof be
declared invalid or unconstitutional. (1960 Code)
4-2E-13: DISPLAY OF CERTAIN MATTER PROHIBITED:
   A.   Publications offered for sale from newsracks placed or maintained on or
projecting over the sidewalks or highways shall not be displayed or exhibited
in a manner which express to public view from the sidewalk or highway any of
the following:
      1.   Any statements or words describing explicit sexual acts, sexual
organs, or excrement where such statements or words have as their purpose or
effect sexual arousal, gratification or affront.
      2.   Any picture or illustration of genitals, pubic hair, perineum,
anuses, or anal regions of any person where such picture or illustration has as
its purpose or effect sexual arousal, gratification, or affront.
   B.   No person shall display or exhibit in any public newsrack or other
display device, any material which is defined by California Penal Code section
313 as harmful to minors unless such material is:
      1.   Displayed in an area from which minors are excluded or,
      2.   Is covered by a device, commonly known as a "blinder rack", such
that the lower two-thirds (2/3) of the material is not exposed to view. (1960
Code; amd. Ord. 95-787)
4-2E-14: DEFINITION OF EXPLICIT SEXUAL ACTS:
Explicit sexual acts, as used in this chapter, means depictions of sexual
intercourse, oral copulation, anal intercourse, oral- anal copulation,
bestiality, sadism, masochism, or excretory functions in conjunction with
sexual activity, masturbation, or lewd exhibition of the genitals, whether any
of the above conduct is depicted or described as being performed alone or
between members of the same or opposite sex or between humans and animals, or
other act of sexual arousal involving any physical contact with a person's
genital, pubic region, pubic hair, perineum, anus or anal region. (1960 Code)
4-2E-15: ENCROACHMENT PERMIT REQUIRED; NEWSRACKS:
No person shall place, install or maintain any newsrack(s) on any street within
the city, without first obtaining approval and a permit from the city. A
separate permit shall be obtained for each newsrack and shall be valid only for
the specific location identified in the permit as approved by the city. (1960
Code; amd. Ord. 95-787)
4-2E-16: APPLICATION FOR ENCROACHMENT PERMIT:
Application for permit must be submitted in writing to the city for each
newsrack and must show:
   A.   The name and address of the applicant;
   B.   The location where the newsrack is to be placed;
   C.   A description of the newsrack showing its type, general dimensions and
material construction;
   D.   A description of the advertising, if any, to appear thereon. (1960
Code; amd. Ord. 95-787)
4-2E-17: ENCROACHMENT PERMIT FEE; NEWSRACKS:
Upon granting of any application, a fee established by separate resolution may
be collected at the time of the issuance of the permit. Each permit shall
expire on December 31 of each year following the issuance date. Application for
a renewal permit shall be made prior to the expiration date of the permit, and
shall be accompanied by required renewal fee(s) if applicable. Any fee
collected for newsrack(s) shall be set and/or modified by resolution of the
city council. (1960 Code; amd. Ord. 95-787)
4-2E-18: PERMITTEE'S OBLIGATIONS:
No permittee shall locate or maintain any newsrack(s) at a point or location
other than that specified within the permit for newsrack(s). It shall be the
duty of the permittee to maintain each newsrack at all times in a safe
condition and at its proper and lawful location. (1960 Code; amd. Ord. 95-787)
4-2E-19: PLACEMENT OF PERMIT:
The permit (sticker) shall be visibly placed on the top of the newsrack so as
to be visible from public view. The permit shall not be effective unless so
placed. (1960 Code; amd. Ord. 95-787)
4-2E-20: INSTALLATION WITHOUT PERMIT:
Any newsrack(s) installed without a permit (sticker) shall be removed by the
newsrack operator, distributor or entity responsible for the newsrack(s). The
city may order the removal and storage of the newsrack(s) at the offender's
expense if the offender fails to do so within ten (10) days after notice. (1960
Code; amd. Ord. 95-787)
4-2E-21: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
After the revocation of any permit, the city may order the removal and storage
of the newsrack(s) if the permittee fails to do so within ten (10) days after
notice. (1960 Code; amd. Ord. 95-787)
4-2E-22: RECOVERY BY OWNER:
Notwithstanding the provisions of sections
4-2E-20 and
 4-2E-21 of this article, the permittee may recover the newsrack(s), at the
owner/operator's expense if within sixty (60) days after removal, he pays the
cost of such removal and storage, for each such newsrack(s). After sixty (60)
days, the city council may sell, destroy or otherwise dispose of the newsrack
(s) and its contents at its discretion. All of the foregoing shall be at the
sole risk of the permittee, and shall be in addition to any other remedy
provided by law for the violation of this section. (1960 Code)
4-2E-23: SURETY BOND OR INSURANCE POLICY; NEWSRACKS:
No encroachment permit shall be issued pursuant to these sections unless the
applicant shall post and maintain with the city a surety bond or policy of
public liability insurance, approved by the city attorney and conditioned as
hereinafter provided. Such bond or policy shall be subject to the following
conditions and provisions.
   A.   The bond or policy shall be so conditioned such that the permittee
shall indemnify, defend and hold the city of Temple City, its officers, and
employees harmless from any and all loss, costs, damages, expenses, or
liability which may result from or arise out of the granting of the permit, or
the installation or maintenance of the newsrack(s) for which the permit is
issued that the permittee shall pay any and all loss or damage that may be
sustained by any person as a result of, or which may be caused by or arise out
of such installation or maintenance;
   B.   The bond or policy of insurance shall be maintained in its original
amount by the permittee at the permittee's expense at all times during the
period for which the permit is in effect;
   C.   In the event that two (2) or more permits are issued to one permittee,
one such bond or policy of insurance may be furnished to cover two (2) or more
newsracks, and each bond or policy shall be of such type that its coverage
shall be automatically restored immediately from and after the time for the
reporting of any accident from which liability may thereafter accrue;
   D.   The limit of liability upon any bond or policy of insurance, posted
pursuant to the requirements of this section shall in no case be less than the
city's minimum insurance requirements as established by city administrative
policy. (1960 Code; amd. Ord. 95-787)
ARTICLE F. REGULATION OF DOGS
SECTION:
4-2F-0: Nuisance By Bark Or Utterance
4-2F-1: Exception
4-2F-2: Notification Of Owner
4-2F-3: Enforcement
4-2F-0: NUISANCE BY BARK OR UTTERANCE:
It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to keep or harbor any animal
which habitually barks, howls, yelps, or utters any sound to the substantial
discomfort of the peace and quiet of the neighborhood, or in such manner as to
materially disturb or annoy persons in the neighborhood who are of ordinary
sensibilities. Such animals are hereby declared to be a public nuisance. (1960
Code)
4-2F-1: EXCEPTION:
A public nuisance shall not mean barking, howling, yelping or other utterance
whenever an animal is in the act of protecting against or resisting trespassers
upon its premises. The burden of proof of such act of protection or resistance
to trespassers by an animal is upon the person owning, harboring, controlling,
maintaining, possessing, or having charge of the dog. (1960 Code)
4-2F-2: NOTIFICATION OF OWNER:
Whenever any person shall complain to the animal control department that an
animal which habitually barks, howls or yelps is being kept by any person in
the city, the animal control department shall notify the keeper or owner of
said animal that a complaint has been received and that the person should take
whatever steps necessary to alleviate the howling, yelping, barking, or
utterance. (1960 Code)
4-2F-3: ENFORCEMENT:
If the warning given to the person alleged to be keeping an animal as set forth
in section
4-2F-2 of this article is ineffective, then a verified complaint of at least
two (2) citizens not from the same residence may be presented to the animal
control department, alleging that an animal which habitually barks, howls or
yelps is being kept by a person within the city. The animal control department
shall inform the owner of (or person responsible for) such animal that said
petition has been received and may be presented to the district attorney to be
filed as a criminal complaint pursuant to section 373(A) of the Penal Code of
the state of California. (1960 Code)
ARTICLE G. GRAFFITI
SECTION:
4-2G-0: Prohibited
4-2G-1: Removal By Violator
4-2G-2: Removal By Owner
4-2G-3: Removal By City
4-2G-4: Violation; Penalty
4-2G-5: Parental Liability
4-2G-6: Liability Of Non-Minors
4-2G-0: PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person to paint, chalk, or otherwise apply graffiti or
other inscribed material on publicly or privately owned permanent structures
located on publicly or privately owned real property within the city. (1960
Code)
4-2G-1: REMOVAL BY VIOLATOR:
Any person applying graffiti within the city shall have the duty to remove the
same within twenty four (24) hours after notice by the city or by the public or
private owner of the property involved. Failure of any person to so remove
graffiti shall constitute an additional violation. Where graffiti is applied by
juvenile, the parent or parents shall be responsible for such removal or for
the payment therefor. (1960 Code)
4-2G-2: REMOVAL BY OWNER:
It is declared to be a public nuisance for the owner (or person in possession)
of any property, public or private, to permit graffiti to remain thereon for
more than seventy two (72) hours after notice from the city to remove the same.
   A.   Abatement proceedings shall be conducted pursuant to Penal Code 370,
Civil Code 3479 and 3480, or appropriate section of the municipal code.
   B.   If the owner (or person in possession of property) fails to remove
graffiti within ten (10) days after notice from the city, such failure shall
constitute a separate offense, and shall be classified as an infraction under
this code. (1960 Code)
4-2G-3: REMOVAL BY CITY:
After a finding by the city council that any graffiti or other inscribed
material is obnoxious, and after securing, in the case of a publicly owned
structure, the consent of the public entity having jurisdiction thereof, and in
the case of the privately owned structure, after securing the consent of the
owner thereof, the city council may order the removal of such graffiti or other
inscribed material, at public expense. The foregoing procedure does not
preclude the city removal of graffiti on public or private property pursuant to
Penal Code 370, Civil Code 3479 and 3480, or appropriate section of the
municipal code. (1960 Code)
4-2G-4: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Willful violation of this article is declared unlawful and shall constitute a
misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not to exceed five hundred dollars
($500.00), or imprisonment not to exceed six (6) months, or both. Every day of
such violation shall constitute a separate offense. Upon entry of a second or
subsequent civil, administrative, or criminal judgment within a two-year period
finding an owner of property, minor, or other person is responsible for a
violation of this chapter, the city shall be entitled to treble damages
pursuant to Government Code section 38773.7.
The city council may, in its sole discretion, by resolution, establish a reward
for information leading up to the identification, apprehension and conviction
of any person who violates this chapter. Said resolution may require that the
offender reimburse the city for any reward paid, and place responsibility for
reimbursement upon the parent(s) or legal guardian(s) of any minor so
convicted.
(1960 Code; amd. Ord. 24-1075)
4-2G-5: PARENTAL LIABILITY:
Pursuant to California Civil Code section 1714.1(b) and Government Code section
38772, each parent or legal guardian having custody and control of a minor who
places graffiti on any public or privately owned structure, building, or
property, including natural and manmade objects within the city, shall be
jointly and severally liable with such minor for any and all costs incurred in
connection with the removal of any graffiti caused by the minor, including all
abatement costs, attorneys' fees, court costs, removal costs, costs of repair
and/or replacement, and the law enforcement costs incurred by the city in
identifying and apprehending the minor. The liability of each parent or
guardian shall not exceed the amount set by the California Judicial Council in
accordance with California Civil Code Section 1714.1(c). Such liability shall
be a personal obligation of each parent or guardian and shall constitute a lien
or special assessment on property owned by each parent or guardian pursuant to
Section
4-2C-19 of this Code. The city is authorized to initiate legal action to
enforce this section, or to recover these costs by any other means provided by
law. Disposition of a criminal prosecution relating to placement of graffiti
does not preclude the city from seeking full cost recovery as provided herein.
(Ord. 24-1075)
4-2G-6: LIABILITY OF NON-MINORS:
Pursuant to Government Code section 38772, any person who places graffiti on
any public or privately owned structure, building, or property, including
natural and manmade objects within the city, shall be personally liable for any
and all costs incurred in connection with the removal of any graffiti caused by
that person, including all abatement costs, attorneys' fees, court costs,
removal costs, costs of repair and/or replacement, and the law enforcement
costs incurred by the city in identifying and apprehending the person. Such
liability shall be a personal obligation and shall constitute a lien or special
assessment on property owned by such person pursuant to Section
4-2C-19  of this Code. The city is authorized to initiate a legal action to
enforce this section, or to recover these costs by any other means provided by
law.
(Ord. 24-1075)
ARTICLE H. VANDALISM AND DAMAGE TO PUBLIC PROPERTY
SECTION:
4-2H-1: Vandalism
4-2H-2: Damage To Public Property
4-2H-1: VANDALISM:
   A.   Property-defacing or injuring private buildings or fixtures. It is
unlawful for any person to deface, mar, break, or in any way destroy or injure
any portion of any private real or personal property within the city not his or
her own.
   B.   Property-defacing or injuring public buildings or fixtures. It is
unlawful for any person to deface, mar, break or in any way destroy, or injure
any portion of any public building, or the fixtures or contents thereof, which
building is owned by the city.
   C.   Penalties for violation. Any and all violations of this section shall
be punishable either as an infraction or a misdemeanor, at the discretion of
the City Attorney.
(Ord. 24-1075, 2-20-2024)
4-2H-2: DAMAGE TO PUBLIC PROPERTY:
   A.   Any person, or the agent of any person, who negligently, carelessly,
accidently, or in any manner causes any damage to any property of the city
shall report such damage within twenty-four (24) hours to the City Manager.
   B.   Such report shall set forth the date, time, and place where the damage
was sustained and the names of any persons who witnessed the damage, together
with the nature and extent of such damage.
   C.   Any person who fails or neglects to make such report within the time
set forth shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 24-1075, 2-20-2024)
ARTICLE I. AEROSOL SPRAY PAINT AND MARKING PEN REGULATIONS
SECTION:
4-2I-0: Definitions
4-2I-1: Sale And Possession Of Aerosol Spray Paint Cans And Marking Pens By
Juveniles
4-2I-2: Sale Of Aerosol Spray Paint And Marking Pens And Storage Requirements
4-2I-0: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, the following terms shall be defined as set forth
herein:
   AEROSOL PAINT CONTAINER: Any aerosol container, regardless of the material
from which it is made, which is adapted or made for the purpose of spraying
paint or other substance capable of defacing property.
   ETCHER: Any device which is adapted or made for the purpose of applying a
mark or scar on any surface.
   FELT TIP MARKER: Any indelible marker or similar implement with a tip which,
at its broadest width is at least one-eighth inch (1/8") in width.
   GRAFFITI PARAPHERNALIA: Any aerosol paint container, felt tip marker, paint
stick, graffiti stick or etching tool capable of applying a one-eighth inch (1/
8") mark or scar on any surface.
   PAINT STICK OR GRAFFITI STICK: Any device containing a solid paint, chalk,
wax, epoxy or other similar substance capable of being applied to a surface,
and upon application, leaving a mark at least one-eighth inch (1/8") in width.
(Ord. 93-755)
4-2I-1: SALE AND POSSESSION OF AEROSOL SPRAY PAINT CANS AND MARKING PENS BY
JUVENILES:
It shall be considered a misdemeanor for any person to sell, exchange, give,
loan or cause or permit to be sold, exchanged, given or loaned, any aerosol
paint container, felt tip marker, paint stick, graffiti stick or etcher to
anyone under the age of eighteen (18) years. It shall be considered an
infraction for anyone under the age of eighteen (18) years to purchase or
otherwise obtain or possess any aerosol paint container, felt tip marker, paint
stick, graffiti stick or etcher in a public place unless such juvenile is in
the presence of a parent or guardian. (Ord. 93-746; amd. Ord. 93-755)
4-2I-2: SALE OF AEROSOL SPRAY PAINT AND MARKING PENS AND STORAGE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Any business or establishment offering for sale to the public any
aerosol paint container, felt tip marker, paint stick, graffiti stick or etcher
shall post and maintain a sign which contains the provisions of section
4-2I-1 of this article in letters at least one-half inch (1/2") in height and
such sign shall be plainly visible to customers.
   B.   Any business or establishment offering for sale to the public any
aerosol paint container, felt tip marker, paint stick, graffiti stick or etcher
shall keep, store and maintain such materials in a place that is locked and
secured or otherwise inaccessible to the public. (Ord. 93-746; amd. Ord. 93-
755)
ARTICLE J. VACANT AND ABANDONED PROPERTY
SECTION:
4-2J-0: Purpose And Scope
4-2J-1: Definitions
4-2J-2: Recordation Of Transfer Of Loan/Deed Of Trust
4-2J-3: Registration; Fees
4-2J-4: Inspection And Registration Of Previously Abandoned Property
4-2J-5: Property Maintenance Requirements
4-2J-6: Security Requirements
4-2J-7: Local Property Management Service Provider Required
4-2J-8: Additional Requirements; Appeal
4-2J-9: Reoccupancy Of Abandoned Or Vacant Property; Certificate Of Code
Compliance
4-2J-10: Violations And Penalties
4-2J-0: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
It is the purpose and intent of the city council, through the adoption of this
article, to establish a registration program for abandoned and vacant property
as a mechanism to protect residential neighborhoods and commercial areas from
becoming blighted through the lack of adequate maintenance and/or security of
abandoned and vacant properties.
(Ord. 11-949)
4-2J-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, the following definitions shall apply and, for
purposes of this article, shall supersede any other definitions of the same
terms in this code.
   ABANDONED: Real property that is vacant and that meets any of the following
conditions:
   A.   Is under a current notice of default.
   B.   Is under a current notice of trustee's sale.
   C.   Is pending a tax assessor's lien sale.
   D.   Has been the subject of a foreclosure sale where the title was retained
by the beneficiary of a deed of trust involved in the foreclosure.
   E.   Has been transferred under a deed in lieu of foreclosure.
   ACCESSIBLE PROPERTY: Any property that is accessible through a gate, fence,
wall, or other barrier that is broken, unlocked, unsecured, or otherwise
missing or lacking.
   ACCESSIBLE STRUCTURE: A building or structure (as defined by the building
code) that is unsecured in any manner that could allow access to the interior
of the building or structure by unauthorized persons.
   AGREEMENT: Any agreement or written instrument which provides that title to
real property shall be transferred or conveyed from one owner to another in any
manner (whether by sale, gift, exchange, transfer, partition, assignation,
placement in a trust, or any other method).
   ASSIGNMENT OF RENTS: An instrument that transfers the beneficial interest
under a deed of trust from one lender or entity to another.
   BENEFICIAL INTEREST: The interest held in a deed of trust by a beneficiary.
   BENEFICIARY: The person or persons who own or hold a promissory note that is
secured by a deed of trust and who is/are named in that document. Beneficiary
shall include, but shall not be limited to, the assignees, successors, or
transferees of a holder of such a promissory note.
   CITY: The city of Temple City.
   CODE: The Temple City municipal code and all laws and regulations
incorporated therein, as well as all uncodified and adopted ordinances.
   DEED IN LIEU OF FORECLOSURE/SALE: A deed to real property accepted by a
lender/beneficiary from a defaulting trustor/borrower to avoid the necessity of
foreclosure proceedings by the lender.
   DEED OF TRUST: An instrument by which an interest in title to real estate is
transferred to a third party trustee as security for a real estate loan (and
often used in California instead of a mortgage). This definition applies to any
and all subsequent deeds of trust (e.g., second deed of trust, third deed of
trust).
   DEFAULT: The failure to fulfill a contractual obligation, monetary or
otherwise, under a promissory note and/or deed of trust.
   DISTRESSED PROPERTY: A property that meets any of the following conditions:
   A.   Is under a current notice of default that has been recorded with the
Los Angeles County recorder's office.
   B.   Is under a current notice of trustee's sale that has been recorded with
the Los Angeles County recorder's office.
   C.   Is pending a tax assessor's lien sale.
   D.   Has been the subject of a foreclosure sale where legal title was
retained or acquired by the beneficiary of a deed of trust involved in the
foreclosure.
   E.   Has been transferred under a deed in lieu of foreclosure.
   EVIDENCE OF VACANCY: Any condition that on its own, or combined with other
conditions present, would lead a reasonable person to believe that the property
is vacant. Such conditions shall include, but shall not be limited to,
overgrown and/or dead vegetation; accumulation of newspapers, circulars,
fliers, and/or mail; past due utility notices and/or disconnected utilities;
accumulation of trash, junk, and/or other debris; the absence of window
coverings such as curtains, blinds, and/or shutters; the absence of furnishings
and/or personal items and/or commercial furnishings consistent with the
permitted residential or commercial uses permitted within the zone of the real
property; or statements by neighbors, passersby, delivery agents, government
employees that the property is vacant.
   FORECLOSURE: The process by which real property pledged as security for a
debt is sold to satisfy the debt in event of default in payments or terms. Said
process may include recordation of a notice of default and/or notice of
trustee's sale against the property that is the subject of a default.
   LOCAL: Within forty (40) driving miles' distance of the subject property.
   NOTICE OF DEFAULT: A recorded notice indicating that a default has occurred
under a deed of trust and that the beneficiary/trustee named therein, or a
successor trustee, intends to proceed with a trustee's sale and/or other
foreclosure proceeding. This notice remains current so long as an instrument
evidencing its cancellation, withdrawal, or rescission has not been recorded.
   NOTICE OF TRUSTEE'S SALE: A recorded notice that follows a notice of default
to announce the date, time, and place that a sale of real property may occur as
a result of a default under a deed of trust. This notice remains current so
long as an instrument evidencing its cancellation, withdrawal, or rescission
has not been recorded.
   OUT OF AREA: Not within forty (40) driving miles' distance of the subject
property.
   OWNER: Any person having legal or equitable title or any interest in any
real property, including the right to possess and use that property.
   OWNER OF RECORD: The person having title to the property at any given point
in time as recorded with the Los Angeles County recorder's office.
   PERSON: Shall mean and include any individual, partnership of any kind,
corporation, limited liability company, association, joint venture or other
organization, however formed, as well as trustees, heirs, executors,
administrators, or assigns, or any combination of such persons. "Person" also
includes any public entity or agency that acts as an owner in the city.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall mean property that is not real property, and
includes, without limitation, any appliance, article, device, equipment, item,
material, product, substance or vehicle.
   REAL PROPERTY: Any improved or unimproved real property owned by any person
and/or any building, structure, or other improvement thereon, or any portions
thereof.
   RESPONSIBLE PARTY: Any person or persons who has/have equitable or legal
title to or control over real property. "Responsible party" includes, but is
not limited to, every owner, owner of record, beneficiary, lienholder, trustee,
servicing company, real estate agent, and property management company, as well
as any person acting on behalf of another responsible party.
   SECURING: Shall mean and include such measures as may be directed by the
city manager (or designee thereof) that assist in rendering real property
inaccessible to unauthorized persons, including, but not limited to, the repair
of fences, walls, and other barriers; chaining or padlocking of gates; and/or
the repair or boarding of doors, windows, and/or other openings. The boarding
of any window, door, or other opening shall be completed to a minimum of the
current United States department of housing and urban development (HUD)
securing standards at the time the boarding is completed or required and shall
be consistent with the requirements of this chapter.
   SUBSTITUTION OF TRUSTEE: A document executed by a beneficiary that replaces
a trustee under a deed of trust with another.
   TRUSTEE: The person holding a deed of trust on real property, and who has
the power to sell the property if the trustor does not fulfill the obligations
as recited in the instrument.
   TRUSTOR: A borrower under a deed of trust, who deeds property to a trustee
as security for the payment of a debt.
   VACANT: Real property and any building or structure thereon that is not
legally occupied, or that otherwise shows evidence of vacancy.
(Ord. 11-949)
4-2J-2: RECORDATION OF TRANSFER OF LOAN/DEED OF TRUST:
   A.   Within ten (10) calendar days following the purchase or transfer of a
loan or deed of trust secured by real property, the new beneficiary and trustee
shall record with the Los Angeles County recorder's office an assignment of
rents or similar document that lists the name of the person purchasing or
acquiring the loan or deed of trust and the mailing address and contact
telephone number of the new beneficiary and trustee responsible for receiving
payment associated with the loan or deed of trust. This requirement shall not
apply to the sale or transfer of a property when such sale or transfer does not
include the sale or transfer of any loan or deed of trust associated with such
property.
   B.   Within ten (10) calendar days following the change of a trustee in a
deed of trust secured by real property, the beneficiary shall record with the
Los Angeles County recorder's office a substitution of trustee or similar
document that lists the name of all new trustees, as well as the mailing
address and contact telephone number of all new trustees. (Ord. 11-949)
4-2J-3: REGISTRATION; FEES:
   A.   Any beneficiary and trustee who holds a deed of trust on real property
located within the city of Temple City shall, prior to recording a notice of
default with the Los Angeles County recorder's office, perform an inspection of
said real property. If the real property is found to be "abandoned" or shows
"evidence of vacancy" (as these terms are defined by this article), the
beneficiary and trustee shall register the real property with the city, on city
approved forms, within ten (10) calendar days of the inspection and shall pay
an annual registration fee as set by resolution of the city council. The
registration (including the statement of intent as referenced hereinbelow) and
accompanying fee shall be valid for the calendar year, or remaining portion of
the calendar year, in which the registration was initially required. The
registration fee shall not be prorated. Subsequent registrations and fees shall
be due January 1 of each year and must be received by the city no later than
January 31 of the year due.
   B.   If the property is occupied at the time of the initial inspection but a
notice of default or notice of trustee's sale remains current in connection
therewith, it shall be inspected by the beneficiary and trustee every
subsequent calendar month until:
      1.   The trustor or other party remedies the default;
      2.   The foreclosure is completed and ownership is transferred to a new
owner who is not the former beneficiary or trustee; or
      3.   The real property is found to be vacant or shows signs of vacancy,
at which time the beneficiary and trustee shall register the real property with
the city within ten (10) calendar days of said inspection.
   C.   The beneficiary and trustee shall register with the city any real
property which becomes vacant or shows evidence of vacancy after a foreclosure
where the title was transferred to the beneficiary of a deed of trust involved
in the foreclosure and any property which becomes vacant or shows evidence of
vacancy after being transferred under a deed in lieu of foreclosure/sale.
Registration shall be filed on city approved forms within ten (10) calendar
days of the inspection demonstrating the vacancy or the evidence of vacancy.
   D.   The registration forms, as established by the city manager (or designee
thereof) shall contain, at a minimum, the following information:
      1.   Name and street/office address (not a P.O. box) and, if different,
the mailing address of each beneficiary and trustee;
      2.   A direct contact name, telephone number, and e-mail address for the
person handling the deed of trust and/or foreclosure;
      3.   The name, street address, telephone and facsimile numbers of a local
property management service provider responsible for the security and
maintenance of the real property, as well as identical information for all
realtors who have been engaged to market the real property;
      4.   A statement of intent that provides the following information:
         a.   The expected period of vacancy;
         b.   A detailed plan for the regular maintenance of the real property
during the period of vacancy;
         c.   A timetable for the lawful reoccupancy of the real property, or
for the rehabilitation or demolition of the structures thereon.
   E.   Persons required to register real property pursuant to this article
shall keep such property registered and shall comply with all security and
maintenance requirements of this article (as well as all other provisions of
this code) for the entire time such property remains vacant or shows evidence
of vacancy. Persons required to register real property pursuant to this article
shall also report in writing to the city any change of information contained in
the registration within ten (10) calendar days of the change.
   F.   When real property subject to registration pursuant to this article
becomes occupied or title is transferred to another responsible party, the
beneficiary, trustee and/or prior responsible party shall notify the city in
writing within ten (10) calendar days of the property's occupancy or the
transfer of title.
   G.   In such instance where title to an abandoned or vacant real property
that was subject to registration pursuant to the provisions of this article has
been transferred to another responsible party, the new responsible party shall
reregister the real property with the city on city approved forms within ten
(10) calendar days of the transfer. Reregistration forms shall contain, at a
minimum, all of the information required by subsection D of this section. A
reregistration fee as set by council resolution shall accompany the
reregistration form.
   H.   Nothing contained within this chapter relieves a responsible party from
complying with any other obligation set forth in any applicable "conditions,
covenants, and restrictions" and/or homeowners' association rules and
regulations or with any other provision of this code. (Ord. 11-949)
4-2J-4: INSPECTION AND REGISTRATION OF PREVIOUSLY ABANDONED PROPERTY:
Any beneficiary and trustee who holds a deed of trust on real property located
within the city of Temple City, which property is distressed (as defined by
this article) on the effective date of this article, shall, within sixty (60)
days of adoption of this article, perform an inspection of the real property
that is the security of the deed of trust. If the real property is found to be
vacant or shows evidence of vacancy, the beneficiary and trustee shall register
the real property with the city, on city approved forms, within ten (10)
calendar days of the inspection, and shall otherwise comply with the
requirements of section
4-2J-3 of this article. (Ord. 11-949)
4-2J-5: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS:
Real property subject to the registration requirements of this article shall be
maintained in a neat, clean, healthful, and sanitary condition at all times.
The following conditions do not constitute a neat, clean, healthful, and
sanitary condition and shall be explicitly prohibited:
   A.   Buildings or structures with graffiti, tagging, or other markings, or
graffiti, tagging, or other markings that have not been completely removed or
painted over with a color matching the exterior of the remaining portion of the
building or structure;
   B.   Accumulations of lumber, junk, trash, debris, construction material,
household furniture, appliances, clothing, or discarded, unused, or abandoned
personal property on exterior portions of the real property;
   C.   Accumulations of newspapers, circulars, fliers, notices, or other
printed material that give the appearance that the property is vacant (except
those required by federal, state, or local law);
   D.   Vegetation that is overgrown, dead, decaying, or otherwise that is not
adequately trimmed, pruned, cut, fertilized, watered, or replaced;
   E.   Swimming pools, spas, or other bodies of water that are not maintained
in such a manner as to be free and clear of pollutants or debris, or that are
maintained in such a manner as to be likely to harbor mosquitoes, insects, or
vectors, including, but not limited to, water that is clouded or green, water
containing bacterial growth, algae, insect larvae, insect remains, or animal
remains; or swimming pools that are not covered, secured and/or maintained in
such a manner that water cannot collect or accumulate therein or on top of a
cover thereon; and
   F.   Accessible property or accessible structures not secured as required by
this code.
(Ord. 11-949)
4-2J-6: SECURITY REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Real properties subject to registration pursuant to this article (and
buildings or structures thereon) shall be secured within seventy two (72) hours
of becoming abandoned, vacant, or showing evidence of vacancy, in a manner to
prevent access by unauthorized persons, including, but not limited to, the
closure, locking, and/or boarding of windows, doors, gates, or other openings
of such a size that it may allow a child to access the interior of the real
property and/or buildings or structures located thereon (including garage
structures or detached accessory structures).
      1.   No window, door, or other opening shall be boarded without prior
written approval of the city manager (or designee thereof) and when such
approval has been granted, the boarding of any window, door, or other opening
shall be completed to a minimum of the current United States department of
housing and urban development (HUD) securing standards at the time the boarding
is completed or required and shall be consistent with the requirements of this
chapter. The factors that shall be considered in determining whether the
boarding of windows, doors, or other openings is required include, but are not
limited to:
         a.   Whether the window, door, or other opening is visible from a
public vantage;
         b.   The difficulty of adequately securing the window, door, or other
opening in another manner so as to prevent unauthorized entry;
         c.   The length of time the real property has been abandoned or
vacant; and
         d.   The length of time the real property is expected to remain
abandoned or vacant (as indicated in any statement of intent on file with the
city).
   B.   Responsible parties for any real property subject to registration
pursuant to this article shall submit a "letter of agency" (or other similarly
entitled authorization) to the Los Angeles County sheriff's department (Temple
Station) every thirty (30) calendar days and post "No Trespassing" signs as
required and approved by the city so that the sheriff's department is
authorized to remove and/or arrest all unauthorized persons from the property.
(Ord. 11-949)
4-2J-7: LOCAL PROPERTY MANAGEMENT SERVICE PROVIDER REQUIRED:
   A.   Responsible parties for any real property subject to registration
pursuant to this article shall retain the services of a local property
management service provider that shall be responsible for the maintenance and
security of the real property. Responsible parties shall provide in writing the
name and telephone number of the local property management service provider to
adjoining neighbors in case of emergency or other issues that arise in
connection with the subject property. Use of out of area property management
service providers is prohibited. The retention of a local property management
service provider shall not relieve other responsible parties of their
obligations, duties, or responsibilities for the maintenance and security of
the real property.
   B.   Responsible parties shall cause the on site inspection of any real
property subject to registration pursuant to this article to be inspected on a
weekly basis and shall submit a written inspection report to the city manager
(or designee thereof) on or before the tenth day of each calendar month for
which the real property remains vacant or shows evidence of vacancy. The
written report shall consist of, at a minimum, the following:
      1.   The address of the real property being inspected;
      2.   The dates of inspection;
      3.   A description of any unlawful conditions observed; and
      4.   The actions taken or proposed to be taken by the responsible party
to abate the unlawful conditions.
   C.   Responsible parties shall cause the abatement of any unlawful condition
existing on real property subject to registration pursuant to this article
within forty eight (48) hours of observing or of being notified of the unlawful
condition. Nothing in this article relieves any responsible party of the need
to obtain approvals, permits, and/or licenses as otherwise required by this
code.
(Ord. 11-949)
4-2J-8: ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS; APPEAL:
   A.   In addition to the specific maintenance and security requirements
provided in this article, the community development director, sheriff's
department, and/or fire department (or designees thereof) shall have the
authority to require responsible parties for real property subject to
registration pursuant to this article to implement additional maintenance and
security measures in order to effectuate the purpose of this article,
including, but not limited to, the installation of security lighting,
increasing the frequency of on site inspections, employment of an on site
security guard, and/or posting of additional signage at the subject property.
   B.   Any responsible party may request a hearing before the city manager (or
designee thereof) in order to challenge or appeal the imposition of any
additional maintenance and/or security requirements pursuant to this section in
accordance with the requirements, procedures, and provisions of article C of
this chapter.
(Ord. 11-949)
4-2J-9: REOCCUPANCY OF ABANDONED OR VACANT PROPERTY; CERTIFICATE OF CODE
COMPLIANCE:
No person shall cause, permit, or suffer the reoccupancy of any real property
(or building or structure thereon) that has been subject to registration
pursuant to this article in excess of one hundred eighty (180) calendar days
without having first obtained a "certificate of code compliance" as issued by
the city manager (or designee thereof). A "certificate of code compliance"
shall not be issued until such time as the following conditions have been met:
   A.   All charges, fees, and/or costs imposed pursuant to this article or
other applicable provisions of this code have been tendered in full to the
city;
   B.   City officials have conducted an on site inspection of the real
property (including all buildings or structures located thereon) to confirm
they are in compliance with applicable provisions of this code; and
   C.   All unlawful conditions existing at the subject property have been
fully corrected and abated with all requisite approvals, permits, and/or
inspections.
(Ord. 11-949)
4-2J-10: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this article to the contrary,
any person who causes, permits, or suffers a violation of any provision of this
article, or who fails to comply with any obligation or requirement of this
article, is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable in accordance with title 1,
chapter 2 of this code and is also subject to administrative citations in
accordance with title 1, chapter 4 of this code.
   B.   Each person shall be guilty of a separate offense for each and every
day, or part thereof, during which a violation of this article, or of any law
or regulation referenced herein, is allowed, committed, continued, maintained,
permitted or suffered by such person, and shall be punishable accordingly.
   C.   This article does not exclusively regulate the use, maintenance, and
security of real and/or personal property within the city, and the remedies
provided in this article are in addition to other remedies and penalties
authorized by this code, or by the laws of the state of California or of the
United States. (Ord. 11-949)
ARTICLE K. POOL MAINTENANCE FOR THE REDUCTION OF MOSQUITO BREEDING
SECTION:
4-2K-0: Definitions
4-2K-1: Enforcement; Administration
4-2K-2: Inspections; Right Of Entry
4-2K-3: Pool Maintenance Required; Maintenance Standards; Owners’
Responsibility
4-2K-4: Violation; Public Nuisance; Penalty
4-2K-5: Abatement; Emergency Abatement Of An Imminently Hazardous Unmaintained
Pool
4-2K-6: Administrative Citations
4-2K-7: Remedies Not Exclusive
4-2K-8: Severability
4-2K-0: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions govern construction of this chapter unless the
context clearly requires otherwise:
 
CITY:                 The City of Temple City.
                      The Temple City Municipal Code, and laws incorporated
CODE:                 therein by reference, as well as any adopted and
                      uncodified ordinances.
CITY MANAGER:         The Temple City City Manager and/or his or her authorized
                      designee(s).
                      Any person having legal title to any real property in the
                      city, including all persons shown as owners on the last
                      equalized assessment roll of the county assessor's
OWNER:                office. Owner also includes any person with powers of
                      attorney, executors of estates, trustees, or who are
                      court appointed administrators, conservators, guardians
                      or receivers.
                      For purposes of this chapter, means and includes any
                      individual, partnership of any kind, corporation, limited
                      liability company, association, joint venture or other
PERSON:               organization or entity, however formed, as well as
                      trustees, heirs, executors, administrators, assigns and
                      any public entity or agency that acts as an owner in the
                      city.
                      Any swimming pool, whether above-ground or in-ground. For
                      purposes of this chapter, "pool" also includes any above-
POOL:                 ground or in-ground hot tub or spa, ornamental pond,
                      fountain, bird bath, or any other man-made structure or
                      fixture capable of collecting water.
PROPERTY or PREMISES: Any privately-owned real property in the city on which a
                      pool, as defined in this chapter, is present.
                      Any person, whether an owner as defined in this chapter,
                      or a person who leases, rents, occupies or has charge,
                      control or possession of property, who allows, causes,
                      creates, maintains, suffers or permits the presence of a
RESPONSIBLE PERSON:   pool that is not maintained in compliance with the
                      provisions of this chapter, by any act or the omission of
                      an act or duty. The actions or inactions of a responsible
                      person's agent, employee, representative or contractor
                      may be attributed to that responsible person. (Ord. 20-
                      1049)
 
4-2K-1: ENFORCEMENT; ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   The City Manager is hereby authorized and directed to enforce the
provisions of this chapter.
   B.   The City Manager is authorized to designate certain City personnel to
assist in the enforcement of this chapter. The designees will have such
enforcement powers as are delegated by the City Manager.
   C.   The City Manager is authorized to promulgate rules, regulations,
policies and procedures to implement the provisions of this chapter, including,
but not limited to, administrative policies and procedures for the City's use,
independently and/or in conjunction consultation with the San Gabriel Valley
Mosquito and Vector Control District, to investigate, identify and abate pools
that are not maintained in compliance with the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 20-1049)
4-2K-2: INSPECTIONS; RIGHT OF ENTRY:
   A.   The City Manager is authorized to make such inspections and take such
actions as may be required to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
Authorized inspections will be limited to exterior portions of premises.
   B.   When it is necessary to make an inspection to enforce the provisions of
this chapter, or when the City Manager has reasonable cause to believe that
there exists on the premises a pool that is not maintained in compliance with
the provisions of this chapter, the City Manager may enter the premises at
reasonable times to inspect.
      1.   If the property is occupied, the City Manager must, before entering
the premises, present proper credentials, and request entry, explaining his or
her reasons for the inspection.
      2.   If the property is unoccupied, the City Manager must first make a
reasonable effort to locate the owner or other responsible person, as defined
in this chapter, and request entry, explaining his or her reasons for the
inspection.
      3.   If consent to entry is refused or otherwise cannot be obtained, the
City Manager must have recourse to every remedy provided by law to secure
lawful entry and inspect the premises, including, but not limited to, securing
an inspection warrant pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure Sections
1822.50 through 1822.57.
      4.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the City Manager has reasonable
cause to believe that a pool is in such a condition as to pose an imminent
hazard to public health and safety, the City Manager will have the right to
immediately enter and inspect the premises, and may use any reasonable means
required to effectuate the entry and inspection.
(Ord. 20-1049)
4-2K-3: POOL MAINTENANCE REQUIRED; MAINTENANCE STANDARDS; OWNERS’
RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.   Owners, as defined in this chapter, must regularly and continuously
maintain a pool in one of the following manners:
      1.   The pool must be filtered and treated so the water remains clear and
circulating; and
      2.   The pool must always be fully drained and kept dry.
   B.   Any pool that is not maintained in conformance with subsection A. will
be deemed an "unmaintained pool."
   C.   Notwithstanding any provision of a lease or rental agreement, or other
occupancy contract or agreement, which assigns pool maintenance duties to a
lessee, tenant or occupant, an owner will be deemed responsible for the regular
and continuous maintenance of his or her pool in accordance with subsection A.
(Ord. 20-1049)
4-2K-4: VIOLATION; PUBLIC NUISANCE; PENALTY:
   A.   The City Council finds and declares that it is unlawful for any
responsible person, as defined in this chapter, to allow, cause, create, suffer
or permit the presence of an unmaintained pool on his or her property.
   B.   The City Council finds and declares that an unmaintained pool
constitutes a public nuisance subject to abatement.
   C.   Any person violating the provisions of this section is subject to the
penalty provisions set forth in Section
4-2K-6.
(Ord. 20-1049)
4-2K-5: ABATEMENT; EMERGENCY ABATEMENT OF AN IMMINENTLY HAZARDOUS UNMAINTAINED
POOL:
   A.   The City Manager may cause an unmaintained pool to be abated, in
accordance with the procedures set forth in Section
4-2C-10 through
4-2C-16.
   B.   The City Manager may utilize the procedures set forth in Section
4-2C-17 for the emergency abatement of an unmaintained pool if it is determined
that the pool creates an imminent hazard to public health, safety, or welfare.
Evidence of an imminently hazardous pool includes, but is not limited to, the
presence of mosquitoes, mosquito larvae, bacterial growth or algae, or water
which is unclear, murky, clouded, green or discolored.
(Ord. 20-1049)
4-2K-6: ADMINISTRATIVE CITATIONS:
   A.   The City Manager may issue an administrative citation to a responsible
person who causes, allows, suffers, or permits the presence of an unmaintained
pool. Issuance of a citation must be in accordance with and as provided in
Section
1-4-4.
   B.   Notwithstanding any other provisions in this code, the penalty amount
of an administrative citation issued for a violation of this section must be
assessed as follows:
      1.   For the first administrative citation, the penalty will be one
hundred dollars ($100.00).
      2.   For the second administrative citation, the penalty will be two
hundred dollars ($200.00).
      3.   For the third administrative citation, the penalty will be five
hundred dollars ($500.00).
(Ord. 20-1049)
4-2K-7: REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE:
Any administrative citation pursuant to this section shall not prejudice or
adversely affect any other civil, administrative, or criminal action that may
be brought to abate an unmaintained pool or to seek compensation for damages
suffered. A civil or criminal action may be brought concurrently with any other
process regarding the same violation.
(Ord. 20-1049)
4-2K-8: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase of this
section is declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be unconstitutional
or otherwise invalid, such decision will not affect the validity of the
remaining portions of this section. The City Council declares that it would
have adopted this section, and each section, subsection, sentence, clause,
phrase or portion thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more
sections, subsections, phrases, or portions be declared invalid or
unconstitutional.
(Ord. 20-1049)
ARTICLE L. VACANT PROPERTY LANDSCAPING AND MAINTENANCE
SECTION:
4-2L-0: Purpose
4-2L-1: Definitions
4-2L-2: City Standards
4-2L-3: Implementation
4-2L-4: Noncompliance Declared Nuisance
4-2L-5: Exemption
4-2L-6: Appeal
4-2L-0: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to regulate vacant lots in the City to protect
areas from becoming blighted due to the lack of adequate maintenance and
security, and to establish minimum standards of accountability on the
responsible parties of vacant lot to protect the health, welfare, and safety of
the community. This article is distinct from the registration and maintenance
requirements of Article 4-2J “Vacant and Abandoned Property”.
(Ord. 22-1061)
4-2L-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following definitions apply:
 
             includes any person having legal title to, or who leases, rents, occupies or
             has charge, control, or possession of, any real property in the City, including
             all persons shown as owners on the last equalized assessment roll of the Los
RESPONSIBLE  Angeles County Assessor’s Office. Responsible parties include persons with
PARTY:       powers of attorney, executors of estates, trustees, or who are court appointed
             administrators, conservators, guardians, or receivers. A responsible party of
             personal property is any person who has legal title, charge, control, or
             possession of such property.
             a lot or parcel of land. A site may include a portion of a lot or parcel.
SITE:        Alternatively, it may include multiple lots or parcels. A site may or may not
             include structures or buildings.
STOCKPILING: The accumulation of construction supplies (such as lumber, gravel, aggregate)
             for future use or temporary storage prior to the issuance of a building permit.
UNIMPROVED:  a vacant site that was never developed or became vacant after buildings,
             structures, or impervious surfaces were removed.
             a site, building, or structure that is not legally occupied and is either
VACANT:      unimproved or is improved with a building or structure that is abandoned,
             vacant and/or unoccupied for more than 90 days.
 
(Ord. 22-1061)
4-2L-2: CITY STANDARDS:
   A.   Unimproved Vacant Sites.
      1.   Landscaping.
         a.   Landscape and Irrigation Plan: The responsible party of an
unimproved vacant site must provide a vacant site landscape and irrigation
plan, along with the appropriate City fees, to the Community Development
Department for review and approval.
         b.   Installation: Upon plan approval, the proposed improvements must
be installed within 30 days.
         c.   Landscape and Irrigation Requirements: Vacant sites must be
continually improved and maintained in accordance with the approved plan and
the following provisions:
            (1)   Landscape Buffer: A minimum five-foot-wide landscape area
must be maintained on all perimeters of a vacant site visible from the public
right of way. Areas adjacent to a neighboring structure do not require a
landscape buffer. Areas adjacent to an alley require a landscape buffer.
            (2)   Landscape Material: areas Any new landscaping in the
landscape buffer area must be planted with drought-tolerant vegetation
consisting of hedges, shrubs, mounding grasses, and/or groundcover. Such
landscape materials must be at least 18 inches tall and no more than four feet
tall. Succulents, cacti, and lawn are not appropriate as they do not provide
any screening.
            (3)   City Guidelines: The landscape plan must be in conformance
with the City’s Drought Tolerant Landscaping Guidelines and the Parkway
Landscape Guidelines to the satisfaction of Community Development Director.
            (4)   Unpaved Areas: All areas of the site outside of the landscape
buffer that are not paved and do not have groundcover must include three inches
of bark mulch to help reduce the presence of weeds.
            (5)   Existing Landscaped Areas: The irrigation system must also
continue to irrigate those sections of the site that were landscaped prior to
the site being vacant.
            (6)   Automatic Irrigation: The vacant site must be improved with
an operable automatic irrigation system. It must be continually maintained in
good condition.
            (7)   Timely Maintenance: Any broken, malfunctioning irrigation
components, on the site must be replaced by the responsible party or designee,
within two weeks of discovery or notification by the City. The responsible
party must inspect the property at reasonable intervals and take other steps to
reasonably ensure that the property is not acting as a public nuisance.
      2.   Fencing.
         a.   Perimeter Fence: A six-foot-high perimeter fence must be
installed around the vacant site. Where a landscape buffer is required, the
fencing must be installed behind the landscaping. The fence must include a gate
to allow emergency access to the site. In circumstances where the Community
Development Director finds that a higher perimeter barrier is warranted for
adequate security, the perimeter barrier may be constructed up to a maximum of
8 feet. This fencing must consist of chain link. The Director may require sites
that have remained vacant for more than six months and for which a building
permit application has not been submitted for review to install tubular steel
instead of chain link.
         b.   Director Approval: A fence plan must be submitted to the
Community Development Director for the Director’s review and approval.
   B.   Improved Vacant Sites. Vacant sites improved with existing on-site
buildings or structures that are vacant, abandoned, or unoccupied for more than
90 days, as determined by the Community Development Director, must be improved
and maintained at all times in the same manner as set forth in the “Unimproved
Vacant Sites” section of this article except that the landscape buffer is not
required. The Community Development Director may modify the fencing
requirements if the requirements are deemed unnecessary or unsuitable for an
improved vacant site. Instances where additional fencing would not be required
would include sites where a building is near the front property line and does
not provide room for loitering.
   C.   Vacant Sites in Conjunction with an Approved Project. Before the City
issues a demolition permit on any site in which the construction of a new
building, structure, parking lot, or impervious surface is not scheduled to
commence within 90 days after demolition, the responsible party or designee
must submit a Vacant Site Landscape and Irrigation Plan for review and approval
by the Community Development Department, along with the appropriate City fees.
The Community Development Department may impose any conditions of approval on
the Vacant Site Landscape and Irrigation Plan to ensure that the site will be
adequately maintained during the time that it is vacant. Upon approval of the
plan, the landscape and irrigation improvements to the vacant site, as
specified on the approved plan, must be completed to the satisfaction of the
Community Development Department, within 30 days after approval of the plans.
   D.   Maintenance of All Sites: All vacant sites covered by this article,
including improved and unimproved vacant sites, must comply with the following:
      1.   Stockpiling: The vacant site must not be used for stockpiling of any
material.
      2.   Fencing: All fencing must be maintained in good working condition.
      3.   Regular Inspections: The responsible party or designee, must inspect
the property at reasonable intervals (at least once a month) and take other
steps to reasonably ensure that none of the above violations exist.
      4.   Adequate Security: The site must be continually and adequately
secured to prevent illegal dumping, criminal activity, vandalism, graffiti,
loitering or trespassing, and any other attractive nuisances.
      5.   Lighting: Any exterior security lighting fixtures, including those
in the parking lot, must be left on after sunset and before sunrise to provide
security and minimize trespassing. Any light fixtures that are not functioning
must be repaired within the time specified by the community preservation staff.
      6.   Alarm Systems and Cameras: Any security systems, such as alarms, and
cameras must be maintained in good working order. The installation of a new
alarm or security system is not required. (Ord. 22-1061)
4-2L-3: IMPLEMENTATION:
All vacant sites, regardless of how they became vacant, that are existing at
the time this article becomes effective must comply with this article within 90
days after the City provides notice alerting the responsible party or operator
of the requirements of this article. For purposes of this article, the
responsible party or operator is deemed to have been provided notice five days
after such notice is mailed by first class and certified mail to the owner or
owners shown on the last assessment roll of the county. The failure of any
person to receive this notice does not affect the validity of any proceedings
under this article. A 30-day time extension may be granted by the Community
Development Director for good cause as determined by the Community Development
Director.
(Ord. 22-1061)
4-2L-4: NONCOMPLIANCE DECLARED NUISANCE:
Failure to comply with any of the applicable requirements in this article
constitutes a public nuisance or nuisances and abatement proceedings may
proceed in accordance with the provisions of
Article 4-2A (Nuisances).
(Ord. 22-1061)
4-2L-5: EXEMPTION:
   A.   Any vacant site that is undergoing construction or any vacant site for
which a building permit has been issued and has not expired is exempt from the
requirements of this article. This exemption does not apply to any extensions,
modifications, or changes to a building permit that extend the building permit
beyond the initial expiration period provided by this Code.
   B.   Other Instances: The Community Development Director may waive
compliance with this article in instances where application of the article
precludes the legal use of a property (for example: private driveways, streets,
and easements; parking lots serving adjacent uses with an active business
license; remnant parcels; and sites owned by utilities and other government
organizations).
   C.   Residential Uses: Sites where the main use is single-family or multi-
family are exempt from the provisions of Section 4-2L.
(Ord. 22-1061)
4-2L-6: APPEAL:
The responsible party may appeal a decision of the Community Development
Director to the Planning Commission per section
9-1C-5.G.
(Ord. 22-1061)
CHAPTER 3
PARADES
SECTION:
4-3-0: Definitions
4-3-1: Parades
4-3-2: Application For Permit
4-3-3: Applications Granted
4-3-4: Appeals
4-3-5: Operation Without Compliance
4-3-6: Registration Statement
4-3-7: Registration Statement Amendment
4-3-8: Regulations For Use
4-3-9: Vehicles; Commercial Advertising
4-3-10: Adverse To Public Welfare
4-3-0: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following term shall be defined as set forth
herein:
   SOUND AMPLIFYING EQUIPMENT: Any machine or device for the amplification of
the human voice, music or any other sound. "Sound amplifying equipment" shall
not be construed as including standard automobile radios when used and intended
to be heard only by the occupants of the vehicle in which installed, warning
devices on authorized emergency vehicles and horns or other warning devices on
other vehicles used only for traffic safety purposes. (1960 Code)
4-3-1: PARADES:
No person shall hold, manage, conduct, carry on or participate in, any parade,
march or procession of any kind or any other similar activity or bear or play
any drum, triangle, tambourine or any wind or string instrument upon any public
street or alley in the city without first having applied for and obtained a
permit therefor from the sheriff with the approval of the city clerk, as
provided in this chapter. (1960 Code)
4-3-2: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
Any person desiring to do any of the acts specified in section
4-3-1 of this chapter shall file an application with the city clerk upon a form
to be supplied by the city without charge to the applicant setting forth the
following information in regard to the proposed event:
   A.   The name and address of applicant;
   B.   The purpose;
   C.   The date and time;
   D.   The place and/or route. (1960 Code)
4-3-3: APPLICATIONS GRANTED:
All applications filed pursuant to this section shall be acted upon by the city
clerk within a reasonable time from the date of filing.
Should the clerk after an investigation of the applicant and the facts
contained in the application determine that the applicant has stated true facts
in his application and the event as proposed will not interfere unduly with the
use of the streets and will not tend to cause breach of the public peace, he
shall issue a permit, with the approval of the sheriff endorsed thereon,
designating the time, place and route of such event. (1960 Code)
4-3-4: APPEALS:
In the event the application is denied, applicant may file with the clerk a
statement and the reasons why it is believed the clerk or sheriff acted
improperly. The city council at its next regular meeting held after the date on
which such appeal is filed with said city clerk, shall hear the appeal and
determination of said city council thereon shall be final. (1960 Code)
4-3-5: OPERATION WITHOUT COMPLIANCE:
No person shall use or cause to be used a sound truck with its sound amplifying
equipment in operation for any noncommercial purpose in the city without filing
a registration statement with the city clerk in writing. (1960 Code)
4-3-6: REGISTRATION STATEMENT:
A registration statement shall be filed in duplicate and shall state the
following:
   A.   Name and home address of the applicant;
   B.   Address of place of business of applicant;
   C.   License number and motor number of each sound truck to be used by
applicant;
   D.   Name and address of person who owns each sound truck to be used by
applicant;
   E.   Name and address of person having direct charge of each sound truck to
be used by applicant;
   F.   Names and addresses of all persons who will use or operate any sound
truck;
   G.   The purpose for which the sound truck or trucks will be used;
   H.   A general statement as to the section or sections of the city in which
each sound truck will be used;
   I.   The proposed hours of operations of the sound trucks;
   J.   The number of days of proposed operation of each sound truck;
   K.   A general description of the sound amplifying equipment which is to be
used;
   L.   The maximum sound producing power of the sound amplifying equipment
which is to be used in or on each sound truck, including:
      1.   The wattage to be used; and
      2.   The approximate maximum distance for which sound will be thrown from
each sound truck. (1960 Code)
4-3-7: REGISTRATION STATEMENT AMENDMENT:
All persons using or causing to be used any sound truck for noncommercial
purposes shall amend any registration statement duly certified by the city
clerk as a correct copy of said application. Said certified copy of the
application shall be in the possession of any person operating any sound truck
at all times while the sound truck's sound amplifying equipment is in operation
and said copy shall be displayed and shown to any policeman upon request. (1960
Code)
4-3-8: REGULATIONS FOR USE:
Noncommercial use of sound trucks in the city with the sound amplifying
equipment in operation shall be subject to the following regulations:
   A.   The only sounds permitted are music or human speech;
   B.   Operations are permitted for three (3) hours per day, except Saturdays,
Sundays and legal holidays when no operations are authorized. The permitted
three (3) hour operation shall be between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00)
A.M. and twelve o'clock (12:00) noon and three o'clock (3:00) P.M. and five
o'clock (5:00) P.M.; provided that upon petition and proper showing, the
council may allow operation in excess of three (3) hours per day but no longer
than seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. to seven o'clock (7:00) P.M.;
   C.   Sound amplifying equipment shall not be operated unless the sound truck
upon which such equipment is mounted is operated at a speed of at least ten
(10) miles per hour except when said truck is stopped or impeded by traffic.
Where stopped by traffic sound amplifying equipment shall not be operated for
longer than one minute at each such stop.
   D.   Sound shall not be issued within five hundred feet (500') of hospitals,
schools, churches, courthouses, courtrooms, county buildings or the city hall.
(1960 Code)
4-3-9: VEHICLES; COMMERCIAL ADVERTISING:
No person at any time shall operate, drive or park or cause to be operated,
driven or parked upon any street, alley, parkway, sidewalk or public property
within the city, without first obtaining written permission therefor from the
city clerk, any advertising vehicle sound truck or commercial vehicle with its
sound amplifying equipment in operation or with any sound or signaling device
in operation for the purpose of advertising goods, wares or merchandise sold at
or from such vehicle or for the purpose of attracting or calling attention to
such vehicle. Application for the permission required hereunder shall be made
to the city clerk in accordance with such rules and regulations as he may
prescribe therefor and such permission shall be given only if the operation of
any such vehicle, sound truck or commercial vehicle will not be inimical to the
public welfare, health or safety or cause such sounds or noises to be emitted
or created as will disturb the peace of the citizens of the city. (1960 Code)
4-3-10: ADVERSE TO PUBLIC WELFARE:
The city clerk must refer the application to the county sheriff and may in his
discretion rely on the decision of the county sheriff whether the same will be
inimical to public welfare, health or safety, or will disturb the peace. (1960
Code)
CHAPTER 4
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
SECTION:
4-4-0: Drinking Upon Public Streets
4-4-1: Intoxicated In Public
4-4-2: Public View
4-4-3: Alcoholic Beverage On School Grounds
4-4-4: Drinking In Vehicle
4-4-5: Disorderly
4-4-6: Consuming Liquor
4-4-0: DRINKING UPON PUBLIC STREETS:
No person shall drink any alcoholic beverage containing more than one-half of
one percent of alcohol by volume: a) upon any public street, alley, sidewalk or
parkway (except for the sale and consumption of beer and wine in conjunction
with an approved sidewalk cafe operated as a permitted accessory or incidental
activity at a "bona fide restaurant" as that term is defined by Temple City
municipal and zoning codes and the department of alcoholic beverage control);
nor b) in any public building, public lavatories, auto park; nor c) within the
public lobby or entranceway of any public or private business or commercial
building within the city; nor d) within any city park or other city owned
property.
The city council may issue permits for special events exemptions from this
section under the following conditions:
   A.   Such permits shall be issued for not more than a six (6) hour period on
any one day (with a 1 day limitation), and shall be limited to designated
areas.
   B.   Such permits shall be issued only for special events sponsored by a
public agency, provided such event is found by the city council to serve a
beneficial interest to this city. (1960 Code; amd. Ord. 97-812; Ord. 98-817;
Ord. 02-873)
4-4-1: INTOXICATED IN PUBLIC:
It shall be unlawful for any intoxicated person, or any person in any
intoxicated condition, wilfully to appear, remain or be in or on any public
highway, street, alley, park, playground or public place in the incorporated
territory of the city of Temple City, whether such person is or is not in or
upon any automobile, street or interurban car, vehicle or conveyance. (1960
Code)
4-4-2: PUBLIC VIEW:
It shall be unlawful for any intoxicated person, or any person in an
intoxicated condition, wilfully to appear, remain or be in any place open to
public view or in any store, railway depot, stadium, or other place to which
the public is admitted or invited, or in or on any private premises or in any
private house to the annoyance of any other person. (1960 Code)
4-4-3: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE ON SCHOOL GROUNDS:
No person shall consume any alcoholic beverage on the grounds of any public
school or any stadium or athletic field while being used by a public school.
(1960 Code)
4-4-4: DRINKING IN VEHICLE:
No person shall enter or remain in a vehicle while any other occupant is
consuming any alcoholic beverage while such vehicle is on a public street,
alleyway or public highway. (1960 Code)
4-4-5: DISORDERLY:
No person shall lie and sleep on any of the sidewalks, streets or other public
places within the city, or appear therein in such a state of intoxication or
drunkenness as to be unable to take proper care of himself or disturb the peace
or quiet of any person, family or neighborhood by drunkenness or by making loud
and unusual noises or by violent language or offensive language, or by
boisterous, tumultuous or offensive conduct, or by the threatening, traducing,
quarreling, fighting or offering or challenging to fight, or in any other way
or manner whatever shall disturb the peace, quiet and decency of any person,
street or neighborhood. (1960 Code)
4-4-6: CONSUMING LIQUOR:
Every person who goes upon or remains upon any part of a public highway, while
he is consuming any alcoholic beverage is guilty of a misdemeanor. Furthermore,
every person who enters or remains in any vehicle while such vehicle is on any
part of any public highway when such person or any other occupant of such
vehicle is consuming any alcoholic beverage is guilty of a misdemeanor. (1960
Code)
CHAPTER 5
DISTRIBUTION OF ADVERTISING MATERIAL
SECTION:
4-5-0: Definitions
4-5-1: Findings And Determinations
4-5-2: Public Places
4-5-3: Automobiles
4-5-4: Private Premises
4-5-5: Vacant Property
4-5-6: Identification
4-5-7: Exemption
4-5-8: Permit Requirements
4-5-9: Violations; Misdemeanors
4-5-10: Violations; Infractions
4-5-11: Penalty Assessments; Infractions
4-5-12: Enforcement
4-5-0: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following term shall be defined as set forth
herein:
   ADVERTISING MATERIAL: Means and includes, dodgers, booklets, cards in excess
of two and one-half inches by four inches (21/2" x 4") and any other printed
advertising material calling attention to any product, business enterprise,
person, firm, or corporation. (Ord. 97-814)
4-5-1: FINDINGS AND DETERMINATIONS:
The city council hereby determines that the practice of throwing or placing of
advertising material or other similar material upon public and private property
in the city has resulted and will continue to result in the littering of public
and private property to the detriment of the residents; and that the
indiscriminate throwing or placing of such material on private property creates
a serious police problem and a threat to public safety in that property owners
or occupants are not always aware that such material is to be thrown upon their
premises, and are often unable to make proper provisions for the removal of
such material from their property with the result that their absence from their
premises may inadvertently be made known to persons of criminal propensities
because of the accumulation of such material; and that the regulations
hereinafter imposed are necessary to alleviate the aforesaid conditions and to
protect the public health, safety and welfare of the community. (Ord. 97-814)
4-5-2: PUBLIC PLACES:
No person shall throw, distribute, scatter, deposit or place upon any public
place within the city, including, but not limited to, streets, alleys, public
parks and school grounds, any "advertising material" as defined herein;
provided, however, the same may be personally delivered to persons who are
willing to accept the same in hand; and provided that newsstands are permitted
at such locations as do not impair traffic or pedestrian movements. (Ord. 97-
814)
4-5-3: AUTOMOBILES:
No person shall place in or on any automobiles or other motor vehicle in the
city any "advertising material" as defined herein, without first having
obtained the permission of the owner or person in possession thereof. (Ord. 97-
814)
4-5-4: PRIVATE PREMISES:
No person shall throw, distribute, scatter, deposit, place or deliver any
advertising material in the yard or grounds of any house, building, or
structure, on any porch, doorstep, or vestibule thereof, if the owner thereof
shall have registered with the city clerk the refusal of such owner to receive
such advertising material. Refusals to receive such information shall be
maintained as follows:
   A.   The city clerk shall maintain a list of those properties whose owners
have written to the city clerk to refuse such advertising material;
   B.   It shall be the responsibility of any person distributing advertising
material on private property to obtain from the city clerk a list of those
properties whose owners have so refused to receive such material;
   C.   The city clerk shall give such list, free of charge, to any person
desiring to make such distribution;
   D.   It shall be unlawful for any person:
      1.   To distribute advertising material without having obtained such
list;
      2.   To distribute in violation of the provisions thereof; or
      3.   To fail to provide adequate supervision to assure compliance with
such list. (Ord. 97-814)
4-5-5: VACANT PROPERTY:
No person shall throw, distribute, scatter, deposit, place or deliver any
advertising material upon any vacant property. (Ord. 97-814)
4-5-6: IDENTIFICATION:
All advertising material disseminated in the city shall have printed thereon or
affixed in legible form the name, address and telephone number of the person
responsible for the distribution of such advertising material, together with a
legible notice to the effect that anyone who does not desire to receive such
advertising material shall notify the said person responsible for the
distribution thereof or the city clerk, city hall, city of Temple City, in
writing to that effect. Thereafter the person thus notified shall disseminate
no such advertising material to the premises described in such notification.
(Ord. 97-814)
4-5-7: EXEMPTION:
The provisions of these sections shall not be deemed to apply to the
distribution of United States mail, telegrams or other material preempted by
state, federal, county or local law. (Ord. 97-814)
4-5-8: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
Any person publishing or distributing advertising material, within the city of
Temple City as defined herein shall first obtain a permit for such purpose as
set forth in the following:
   A.   No person shall distribute any advertising material or medium or
solicit for permission to distribute advertising material or medium without
first applying for and receiving a permit from the financial services director.
Such application shall set forth the name and address of the applicant, the
particular advertising material or medium which the applicant desires to
distribute, the area in which it is proposed to be distributed, whether or not
it is proposed to be distributed at regular or irregular intervals and a
schedule of times when it is proposed to be distributed during the period to be
covered by the permit.
   B.   The permit fee for the distribution of advertising material shall be
established by city council resolution and payable on an annual basis in
advance at the time the written permit application is filed.
   C.   The permit fee herein required shall not apply to any such advertised
material sent through the United States post office in accordance with postal
regulations nor shall it be required for the printing, publishing or
circulating of newspapers as herein defined. For the purpose of this chapter, a
"newspaper" is defined as a publication which has been and is at the time of
its distribution admitted as second class material under United States postal
regulations, and is at such time a newspaper of general circulation under the
laws of the state of California, and at such time maintains a bona fide list of
paying subscribers at regular published rates, and contains a weekly average of
advertising material not exceeding sixty percent (60%) of the total amount of
printed material therein. (Ord. 97-814)
4-5-9: VIOLATIONS; MISDEMEANORS:
No person shall violate any provisions, or fail to comply with any of the
requirements of this code. Any person violating the provisions or failing to
comply with any of the mandatory requirements of this code, shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor. Any person convicted of a misdemeanor under the provisions of
this code, shall be punishable by a fine of not more than five hundred dollars
($500.00), or by imprisonment in the city or county jail for a period not
exceeding six (6) months, or by both such fine and imprisonment. Each such
person shall be guilty of a separate offense for each and every day during any
portion of which any violation of any provision of this code is committed,
continued, or permitted by such person and shall be punishable accordingly.
(Ord. 97-814)
4-5-10: VIOLATIONS; INFRACTIONS:
Pursuant to the provisions of section 36900 of the California Government Code,
the city may enforce the first and second violations of this code as
"infractions", while any subsequent violations shall be deemed and enforced as
"misdemeanors". (Ord. 97-814)
4-5-11: PENALTY ASSESSMENTS; INFRACTIONS:
A violation of any provisions of this code expressly enforced as an infraction
shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed that allowable by California state
law, as set forth by city council resolution. (Ord. 97-814)
4-5-12: ENFORCEMENT:
The duty of enforcing this code shall be the responsibility of the city manager
or other designated city official. (Ord. 97-814)
CHAPTER 6
CHARITABLE-RELIGIOUS SOLICITATIONS
ARTICLE A. CHARITABLE SOLICITATIONS
SECTION:
4-6A-0: Permit Required
4-6A-1: Tickets
4-6A-2: Application
4-6A-3: Investigation
4-6A-4: Granting Or Denying Application
4-6A-5: Exception
4-6A-6: Suspension Or Revocation
4-6A-7: Solicitation By Mail
4-6A-8: Delegation To City Manager
4-6A-9: Religious Solicitation
4-6A-10: Restrictions
4-6A-0: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person, without having first obtained a permit therefor as herein provided,
shall make any appeal to the public for charity or charitable or religious
purpose, either by soliciting or collecting gifts, contributions, donations, or
subscriptions, or by promoting or conducting any sale, bazaar or exhibition by
any other means, at any place or to any person within the city. (1960 Code)
4-6A-1: TICKETS:
No person, without first having obtained a permit therefor, as hereinafter
provided, shall sell or solicit for or on behalf of any person, by telephone or
otherwise, for the sale of any ticket or right to admission to any amusement,
show, entertainment, lecture or other enterprise not regularly carried on for
private profit or gain by any person at a fixed place of business in the city,
or solicit any contribution or gift in connection with such amusement, show,
entertainment, lecture or other enterprise, where such sale or solicitation is
for a charitable purpose and is made to persons other than the bona fide
members of the firm, association or corporation, causing such solicitation or
sale, or for, or on, whose behalf such solicitation or sale is made and where,
in connection with any such amusement, show, entertainment, lecture or other
enterprise, it is represented, advertised, held out, implied, or made to appear
that such sale, solicitation, contribution or gift or any part of the proceeds
therefrom shall belong to or be devoted or used for the benefit of any person,
firm, association or corporation. (1960 Code)
4-6A-2: APPLICATION:
Any person desiring a permit to do any of the acts referred to in sections
 4-6A-0 and
4-6A-1 of this article, shall file a written application therefor with the city
manager of the city containing the following information:
   A.   Name and address of applicant (if applicant is a corporation,
partnership or association, the names and addresses of all officers, partners,
and/or principals);
   B.   Location of national, state and local headquarters, if any;
   C.   The names and addresses of all persons directly interested in or who in
any manner will be engaged in the activity;
   D.   The purpose for which the proceeds of the solicitations, sale, bazaar,
exhibition, promotion, amusement, show, lecture, entertainment or other
enterprise, or any part thereof, are to be used, including the manner and
amount of any compensation intended to be paid to any person, firm, association
or corporation, out of such gross proceeds;
   E.   The total amount sought to be raised, and the bank or place where all
or any part of such funds will be placed on deposit or invested;
   F.   The type of records proposed to be kept of funds received and the
location of such records and the custodian thereof;
   G.   The type of identification to be carried or uniform to be worn by
persons engaged in the activity;
   H.   Such other information relating to applicant and the parties directly
interested or engaged in the activity, as may be necessary to enable a full and
complete investigation to be conducted, including, but not limited to, suitable
photographs and fingerprints. (1960 Code)
4-6A-3: INVESTIGATION:
The city manager of the city, upon receipt of such an application, shall refer
the same to the police and sheriff's department for investigation. After the
investigation has been conducted, the chief of police or his authorized deputy
or sheriff shall transmit to the city manager, for referral to the city
council, the report of the investigation. (1960 Code)
4-6A-4: GRANTING OR DENYING APPLICATION:
The city council shall consider the application and investigation report and
such other information as may be relevant, and if it finds that the applicant
has not stated true facts in the application or that if a permit were to be
granted to applicant, a fraud, in all probability, would be perpetrated on the
public, the council shall refuse the issuance of a permit to such applicant. If
the council finds that the application is truthful, that the applicant is
acting in good faith and that in all probability a fraud would not be
perpetrated on the public, a permit shall be issued to such applicant for such
period of time as applicant may request, not to exceed a period of three (3)
months from the date of issuance of said permit. Provided, that as a condition
to granting such permit, the council may require applicant to file a bond with
the city clerk, in a sum not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), in a
form to be approved by the city attorney, conditioned so that if applicant
should fail to devote, pay or use the entire proceeds or percentage thereof, as
specified in the applicant, derived from the activity, to the person for, or on
whose behalf, or benefit such activity was carried on, as indicated on the
application, then the surety will pay to such person the amount of such bond.
(1960 Code)
4-6A-5: EXCEPTION:
Renewal permits shall not be required for any of the acts or activities
described in sections
4-6A-0 and
4-6A-1 of this article, by the members of any religious or charitable
organization which has been in existence in, and which regularly has maintained
a headquarters or a place of worship in the city, for a period of at least five
(5) years next preceding the date on which such activity is proposed to be
commenced; provided that the council has issued a basic permit authorizing the
acts or activities described in said sections by such organization. Permits
issued to organizations as described in this section shall be valid until
revoked by the council; provided such permittees shall advise the city of
changes in sponsors or officers. (1960 Code)
4-6A-6: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION:
The city manager shall have the power to suspend any permit if he finds that
the permittee is not operating in conformity with the application pursuant to
which the permit was issued, or if he finds, that further activity of the
permittee would, in all probability, allow fraud to be perpetrated upon the
public or any portion thereof. Notice of such suspension shall be given to
permittee by registered mail directed to the permittee at his last known
address, postage prepaid, and deposited in the United States mail. The said
permit in such a case shall be suspended and no further activity otherwise
permitted thereunder shall be permitted, effective three (3) days after date of
mailing said letter. In such a case, permittee shall have a right of immediate
appeal to the city council and at the next regularly schedule council meeting
after such suspension, said permittee shall show cause before the council why
the permit should not be revoked. If the council finds that the suspension was
justified, the permit shall forthwith be revoked. No formal public notice need
be given by the council in connection with the denying or revocation of such
permit, provided that notice of such hearing is given to applicant by
depositing in the United States mail by registered mail, directed to the last
known address of such applicant, at least forty eight (48) hours prior to the
holding of such hearing. (1960 Code)
4-6A-7: SOLICITATION BY MAIL:
No permit shall be required for any solicitation through the United States
mail. (1960 Code)
4-6A-8: DELEGATION TO CITY MANAGER:
During the time this section remains in effect, the responsibilities and
prerogatives imposed by this section upon the city council are hereby delegated
in the first instance to the city manager. Any person dissatisfied with the
decision of the city manager, may appeal such decision to the city council
whereupon the decision of the city manager shall be vacated and the city
council shall exercise its prerogatives as set forth in this chapter. (1960
Code)
4-6A-9: RELIGIOUS SOLICITATION:
See article B of this chapter. (1960 Code)
4-6A-10: RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Solicitation shall only take place between the hours of nine o'clock
(9:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) P.M.
   B.   Solicitation shall not be made at any house, apartment or other
dwelling in which is affixed a sign indicating "No Solicitors" or similar
indication that no solicitation contact is desired by the occupant thereof.
(Ord. 91-695)
ARTICLE B. RELIGIOUS SOLICITATIONS
SECTION:
4-6B-0: Definitions
4-6B-1: Permit Required
4-6B-2: Exemption
4-6B-3: Filing Application For Permit
4-6B-4: Information Required In Application
4-6B-5: Investigation
4-6B-6: Limitations On Solicitation
4-6B-7: Issuance Of Permit
4-6B-8: Time Of Issuance
4-6B-9: Renewal Of Permit
4-6B-10: Form Of Permit
4-6B-11: Term Of Permits
4-6B-12: Nontransferability Of Permits
4-6B-13: Credentials Of Solicitors
4-6B-14: Denial Of Permit
4-6B-15: Revocation
4-6B-16: Appeal To City Council
4-6B-17: Receipts
4-6B-18: Open Container
4-6B-19: Manner Of Solicitation
4-6B-20: Authority Of City Manager
4-6B-21: Penalties
4-6B-22: Severability
4-6B-0: DEFINITIONS:
   CITY MANAGER: The person exercising that function of any city employee
designated by the city manager to perform such functions hereunder.
   CONTRIBUTIONS: Means and includes the words alms, food, clothing, money,
property, subscription or pledge, and also donations under the guise of loans
of money or property.
   PERSON: Any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company,
association, society, organization, church, congregation, assembly or league,
and includes any trustee, receiver, assignee, agent or other similar
representative thereof.
   RELIGIOUS AND RELIGION: Shall have the meaning established by the supreme
court of California or the supreme court of the United States. It shall not
mean and include the word "charitable".
   SOLICIT AND SOLICITATION: The request, directly or indirectly, of money,
credit, property, financial assistance or other things of value on the plea or
representation that such money, credit, property, financial assistance or other
thing of value will be used for a religious purpose as those purposes are
defined in this section, conducted door to door, in any place of public
accommodation, in any place of business open to the public generally, on the
city streets and sidewalks, in the public parks, on the public beaches or in
any public place. These words also mean and include the following methods of
securing such money, credit, property, financial assistance or other thing of
value, when conducted in the manner stated above:
   A.   Any oral or written request.
   B.   The local distribution, circulation, posting or publishing of any
handbill, written advertisement or other local publication.
   C.   The sale of any goods or services.
"Solicitation" as defined herein shall be deemed to have taken place when the
request is made, whether or not the person making the request receives any
contribution referred to in this section. (1960 Code)
4-6B-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person shall, directly or indirectly, solicit nor authorize any other person
to solicit contributions for any religious purposes within the city without a
permit therefor as provided in this article. (1960 Code)
4-6B-2: EXEMPTION:
The provisions of this article shall not apply to any person where religious
solicitations are conducted among the members thereof by other members, whether
at regular assemblies or services or otherwise. (1960 Code)
4-6B-3: FILING APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
An application for a religious solicitation permit shall be made to the city
manager upon forms prescribed by him. The application shall be sworn to or
affirmed and filed with the city manager not less than ten (10) days prior to
the time at which the permit applied for shall become effective; provided,
however the city manager may for a good cause shown allow such filing less than
ten (10) days prior to the effective date the permit applied for. (1960 Code)
4-6B-4: INFORMATION REQUIRED IN APPLICATION:
The application shall contain the following information:
   A.   Name, address and principal office of the person applying for the
permit.
   B.   If the applicant is not an individual, the names and addresses of the
applicant's principal officers and executives.
   C.   A statement that the purpose for which the solicitation is made is
exclusively for and in connection with the exercise of religion.
   D.   The total amount of funds proposed to be raised by solicitation.
   E.   The name and address of the person or persons who will be in charge of
conducting the solicitation and the names of all of funds raisers connected to
or to be connected with the proposed solicitation.
   F.   A short outline of the method or methods to be used in conducting the
solicitation.
   G.   The time when such solicitation will be made, giving the preferred
dates and hours of the day for the commencement and termination of
solicitation.
   H.   A statement to the effect that if a permit is granted, it will not be
used or represented in any way as an endorsement by the city or any department
or officer thereof. If while the application is pending or during the term of
any permit granted there is a change in fact, policy or method that would alter
the information to be given in the application the applicant shall notify the
city manager in writing thereof within twenty four (24) hours after such
change. (1960 Code)
4-6B-5: INVESTIGATION:
The city manager shall investigate all applications to the extent he deems
necessary for him to perform his duties hereunder. Upon request by the city
manager, applicant shall make available for inspection all of applicant's
financial books, records, and papers at any reasonable time before the
application is granted or during the time the permit is in effect, which books,
records and papers will be inspected solely for the determination of the
factual accuracy of the information contained in the application. Failure to
make any such information available within ten (10) days at the city manager's
request to inspect same shall automatically result in revocation of the permit.
(1960 Code)
4-6B-6: LIMITATIONS ON SOLICITATION:
Solicitations pursuant to permit hereunder:
   A.   Shall only take place between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and
five o'clock (5:00) P.M.
   B.   Solicitation shall not be made at any house, apartment or other
dwelling in which is affixed a sign indicating "No Solicitors" or similar
indication that no solicitation contact is desired by the occupant thereof.
(1960 Code; amd. Ord. 91-695)
4-6B-7: ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
The city manager must and shall issue the permit unless any of the following
have been demonstrated by substantial evidence:
   A.   Any statement made in the application is factually incorrect.
   B.   That the proposed solicitation will violate any of the requirements of
section
4-6B-6 of this article.
   C.   That applicant has not provided the information required by this
article. (1960 Code)
4-6B-8: TIME OF ISSUANCE:
The city manager shall either grant or deny the requested permit within ten
(10) days of the date the application is made. In the event the city manager
fails to act within the time prescribed, the permit shall be deemed granted.
(1960 Code)
4-6B-9: RENEWAL OF PERMIT:
On the expiration of any permit, and if requested in writing to do so, the city
manager must renew the permit within ten (10) days of such request, if the
factual information upon from which the original application was granted
remains unchanged and no violations have been committed. Upon such request for
renewal applicant must state that no change has occurred since issuance of the
original permit. (1960 Code)
4-6B-10: FORM OF PERMIT:
Permits issued under this article shall bear the name and address of the person
to whom it is issued, the number of the permit, the date issued, the dates
within which the permit holder may solicit and the statement that the permit
does not constitute an endorsement by the city or any of its departments,
officers or employees of the purpose of or for the person conducting the
solicitation. (1960 Code)
4-6B-11: TERM OF PERMITS:
Permits issued hereunder shall be valid for a period of thirty (30) days unless
renewed, revoked or suspended pursuant to the provisions hereof. (1960 Code)
4-6B-12: NONTRANSFERABILITY OF PERMITS:
No permit issued hereunder shall be transferred or assigned and any such
attempt of assignment or transfer shall be void. (1960 Code)
4-6B-13: CREDENTIALS OF SOLICITORS:
All persons to whom permits have been issued hereunder shall furnish proper
credentials to their agents and solicitors for such solicitation. The
credential shall include the name of the permit holder, the date, a statement
of the religious purposes of the solicitation, signature of the permit holder
or its executive officer and the name and the signature of the solicitor to
whom such credentials are issued and the specific period of time during which
the solicitor is authorized to solicit on behalf of the permit holder. No
person shall solicit under any permit granted under this article without
credentials required hereunder. (1960 Code)
4-6B-14: DENIAL OF PERMIT:
In the event the city manager denies a permit to any applicant, the city
manager shall give the applicant a written notice, stating with specificity the
reasons for such denial. (1960 Code)
4-6B-15: REVOCATION:
Whenever it shall be shown that any persons to whom a permit has been issued
has violated any of the provisions of this article, the city manager shall
suspend the permit after giving written notice to the permit holder of not less
than two (2) business days in person or by registered special delivery of the
proposed revocation, stating with specificity the reason for such proposed
revocation. (1960 Code)
4-6B-16: APPEAL TO CITY COUNCIL:
Any applicant or permit holder aggrieved by any action of the city manager to
deny, revoke or refusal to renew a permit, may appeal to the city council by
filing with the city clerk a statement addressed to the city council setting
forth the facts and circumstances regarding the action of the city manager.
Such appeal shall be filed within ten (10) days after the disputed action of
the city manager and the city council shall hear the appeal at its next regular
meeting, not more than fifteen (15) days after filing thereof. At the time of
the appeal hearing, the city council shall hear all relevant evidence and shall
determine the merits of the appeal and render a decision thereon within three
(3) business days of the hearing.
In the event the city council affirms the decision of the city manager, the
appellant shall be given written notice thereof within two (2) days thereafter
stating with specificity the reasons for the decision. The action of the city
council shall be final and appealable to the superior court of the state of
California pursuant to Code Of Civil Procedure section 1094.5. (1960 Code)
4-6B-17: RECEIPTS:
Any person receiving money or anything of value in excess of five dollars
($5.00) from any contributor by means of solicitation made pursuant to a permit
shall give each contributor a written receipt signed by the solicitor showing
plainly the name and the permit number of the person under whose permit the
solicitation is conducted, the date, and the amount received; provided,
however, this section shall not apply to any contribution collected by means of
a closed box or receptacle where it is impractical to determine the amount of
such contributions. (1960 Code)
4-6B-18: OPEN CONTAINER:
   A.   No person who has in his or her possession any bottle, can or other
receptable containing any alcoholic beverage which has been opened, or a seal
broken, or the contents of which have been partially removed, shall enter, be,
or remain in any public area, including, but not limited to, any roadway,
sidewalk, parking lot, or on the posted premises of, including the posted
parking lot immediately adjacent to, any retail package off-sale alcoholic
beverage licensee licensed pursuant to State law, or on any area immediately
adjacent to the licensed and posted premises, or on the premises of, or
immediately adjacent to, any business not licensed to sell or consume alcoholic
beverages.
   B.   As used in this section, "posted premises" means those premises which
are subject to licensure under any retail package off-sale beverage license,
the parking lot immediately adjacent to the licensed premises and any public
sidewalk immediately adjacent to the licensed premises on which clearly visible
notices indicate to the patrons of the licensee and the parking lot and to
persons on the public sidewalk, that the provisions of this section are
applicable. This section does not apply to possession of an alcoholic beverage
on-site of a properly licensed facility in compliance with State law.
(Ord. 23-1073)
4-6B-19: MANNER OF SOLICITATION:
No persons to whom a permit has been issued nor any agents or solicitors of
such person:
   A.   Shall affix any object to the person of any contributor or member of
the public without first receiving express permission therefor;
   B.   Shall persistently and importunately request any donation from any
member of the public after such member of the public expresses his desire not
to make a donation; and
   C.   Shall intentionally and deliberately obstruct the free movement of any
person on any street, sidewalk or other public place or any place open to the
public generally.
(1960 Code)
4-6B-20: AUTHORITY OF CITY MANAGER:
Nothing hereunder shall be construed as granting to the city manager or any
other person the authority to grant, deny, revoke, renew or suspend any permit
by reason of agreement or disagreement with the philosophy, opinion or belief
that the applicant, permit holder or person soliciting thereof, or for any
other reason not specifically provided for herein.
(1960 Code)
4-6B-21: PENALTIES:
Any person, as hereinbefore defined or any agent, servant, employee or officer
thereof violating any of the provisions of this article, or who aids or abets
in the procuring of a violation of any provision, part or portion hereof, or
who files or causes to be filed an application for a permit containing a false
or fraudulent statement of fact, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and
upon conviction thereof shall be fined not more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) for each offense, or undergo imprisonment for not more than six (6)
months, or both. Each violation shall be deemed a separate offense, and shall
be punishable as such.
(1960 Code)
4-6B-22: SEVERABILITY:
It is the intention of the city council that each separate provision of this
chapter shall be deemed independent of all other provisions herein and it is
further the intention of the city council that if any provision of this chapter
is declared invalid, the remaining provisions shall remain viable and in
effect.
(1960 Code)
CHAPTER 7
LOITERING
SECTION:
4-7-0: No Conflict With State Statutes
4-7-1: Loitering
4-7-2: Leaving Property Upon Walkways
4-7-3: Loitering Near Schools
4-7-4: Littering
4-7-5: Prohibition Of Street Gang Activities
4-7-0: NO CONFLICT WITH STATE STATUTES:
This chapter does not prohibit any act prohibited by section 374b or 647 of the
Penal Code or by section 23112 of the Vehicle Code or by any other state
statute or state law. (1960 Code)
4-7-1: LOITERING:
   A.   A person shall not loiter or stand in or upon any public highway,
alley, sidewalk or crosswalk or other public way open for pedestrian travel.
   B.   Obstructions by crowds; dispersal. Whenever the free passage of any
public highway, alley, sidewalk or crosswalk or other public way open for
pedestrian travel shall be obstructed by a crowd, the persons composing such
crowd shall disperse or move on when directed to do so by any law enforcement
officer or city official.
   C.   Loitering and obstruction of public property. No person shall loiter or
stand in, sit upon or lie or sleep in or upon any public highway, alley,
sidewalk, crosswalk or any other public way, or otherwise occupy any portion
thereof in such a manner as to unreasonably annoy or molest any pedestrian
thereon, or as to obstruct or unreasonably interfere with the free passage of
pedestrians or motor vehicles, or unreasonably interfere with the use in the
customary manner of such public highway, alley, sidewalk, crosswalk or other
public way open to the public.
   D.   Loitering and obstruction of private property. No person or persons
shall stand, sit, linger, idle, or loiter on any public property, or in or
about the entrance or exit of any business establishment, either on foot or in
an automobile or other vehicle, in such a manner as to obstruct or hinder the
free passage of persons through such public property, or obstruct or hinder
persons entering and exiting from any business establishment, or in such a
manner as to create a health or safety hazard for the community or for the
patrons of such public place. No person in violation of this prohibition shall
refuse or fail to disperse or move on when directed to do so by a police
officer or other city employee.
   E.   Improper Use of City Facilities. No person shall walk, stand, sit, or
lie upon any monument, vase, decorative fountain, drinking fountain, bike rack,
trash receptacle, fire hydrant, street-tree planter, utility cabinet, railing,
fence, planter, or upon any other public property not designed or customarily
used for such purposes.
   F.   The provisions of this section do not prohibit a person from sitting
upon a public highway, alley, sidewalk or crosswalk or other public way open
for pedestrian travel if:
      1.   Necessitated by the physical disability of such person.
      2.   Viewing a legally conducted parade; or
      3.   On a bench lawfully installed for such purpose.
   G.   Violation; penalty. It is unlawful for any person to violate any
provision or to fail to comply with any of the requirements of this section. A
violation of any of the provisions of failing to comply with any of the
mandatory requirements of this section shall constitute a misdemeanor; except
that notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, any such violation
constituting a misdemeanor under this section may, at the discretion of the
City Attorney or the citing officer on the scene, be charged and prosecuted as
an infraction.
(1960 Code; amd. Ord. 24-1075)
4-7-2: LEAVING PROPERTY UPON WALKWAYS:
A person shall not leave or permit to remain on any public highway, alley,
sidewalk, crosswalk or other public way open for pedestrian travel any
merchandise, baggage, or any article of personal property. However, this
section does not apply to any temporary rack or stand used for the purpose of
displaying newspapers for sale while such rack or stand is so used if such rack
or stand does not occupy any portion of the highway set aside for vehicular use
and such rack or stand does not cover an area exceeding ten (10) square feet.
(1960 Code)
4-7-3: LOITERING NEAR SCHOOLS:
A person shall not loiter about any school or public place at or near which
schoolchildren attend. (1960 Code)
4-7-4: LITTERING:
A person shall not deposit or throw any litter or trash on any public highway
or sidewalk or on any private property without the consent of the owner or
person in lawful possession thereof. (1960 Code)
4-7-5: PROHIBITION OF STREET GANG ACTIVITIES:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person who is a member of a "criminal street
gang" (as that term is defined in California Penal Code section 186.22(f)) or
who is in the company of or acting in concert with a member of a "criminal
street gang" to loiter or idle in a "public place", as defined herein, under
any of the following circumstances:
      1.   With the intent to publicize a criminal street gang's dominance over
certain territory in order to intimidate nonmembers of the gang from entering,
remaining in, or using the public place or adjacent area; and/or
      2.   With the intent to conceal ongoing commerce in illegal drugs or
other unlawful activity.
   B.   For purposes of this section, a "public place" means the public way,
street, sidewalk or any other location open to the public, whether publicly or
privately owned, including, but not limited to, any: street, sidewalk, curb
area, parkway, alley, park, playground, or other public ground or public
building including the accessways thereto, and any common area of a school,
theater, apartment house, office building or privately owned business to which
the public is invited, including places of amusement, entertainment, or eating
establishment. Any public place also includes the front yard area, driveway and
walkway areas of any private property.
   C.   Nothing in this section shall be construed in any way to limit the
authority of a law enforcement officer to make an investigation, detention or
arrest as such officer would be permitted to make in the absence of this
section.
   D.   Any parent(s), legal guardian(s) or other adult person(s) authorized by
such parent(s) or guardian(s) to have the care and custody of a minor, who
knowingly permits (or by insufficient control allows) a minor to violate the
provisions of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor.
   E.   Violation of the section shall be punishable by fine and/or
imprisonment, as provided by law. (Ord. 03-884)
CHAPTER 8
MISCELLANEOUS
SECTION:
4-8-0: Definitions
4-8-1: Handbills
4-8-2: Handbills Advocating Disloyalty Or Breach Of Peace
4-8-3: Tip Sheets Prohibited
4-8-4: Handbills Expressing Views
4-8-5: Throwing Tip Sheets And Handbills
4-8-6: Disorderly House
4-8-7: Abandoned Wells
4-8-8: Failure To Cap Abandoned Wells
4-8-9: Reserved
4-8-10: Fortune Telling
4-8-10-1: Definitions
4-8-10-2: Permit And Compliance With Conditions Required
4-8-10-3: Permit Application
4-8-10-4: Investigation
4-8-10-5: Hearing And Decision By City Council
4-8-10-6: Issuance Of Permit
4-8-10-7: Exceptions
4-8-10-8: Fees
4-8-10-9: Siting
4-8-11: Reserved
4-8-12: Soliciting In City Or County Buildings
4-8-13: Unsightliness
4-8-14: Reserved
4-8-15: Reserved
4-8-16: Reserved
4-8-17: Reserved
4-8-18: Signs
4-8-19: Erection Of Signs
4-8-20: Street Signs
4-8-21: Item Pricing
4-8-0: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter the following terms shall be defined as set forth
herein:
   HANDBILL: Any handbill, dodger, commercial advertising, circular, folder,
booklet, letter, card, pamphlet, sheet, poster, sticker, banner, notice or
other written, printed or printed matter calculated to attract attention of the
public.
   TIP SHEET: Any written or printed form, chart, table, list sheet, circular
or publication of any kind, giving or purporting to give, or represented as
giving, any list, or probable or possible list of one or more entries for any
race or other contest thereafter anywhere to take place, if there be written or
printed or published as part thereof, or in connection therewith, or in any
other publication, printing or writing accompanying the same or referring
thereto or connected therewith, any tip, information, prediction, or selection
of, or advise to, or any key, cipher, or cryptogram indicating, containing or
giving any tip, information, publication or selection of, or advice, as to the
winner or probable winner, or a loser or probable loser, or the result or
probable result of any such race or other contest or the standing of probable
standing of any horse or other contestant therein, or any statement as to, or
comment upon, or reference to, the form, condition or standing of any horse or
other contestant, or the actual, probable or possible result of any race or
contest, or the actual, probable or possible state, past, present or future, of
the betting wagering or odds upon or against any horse or other contestant
named in such list or probable or possible list, of entries. (1960 Code)
4-8-1: HANDBILLS:
No person shall distribute, scatter, hand out or circulate any commercial or
noncommercial handbill, circular, tract or leaflet in any place or under any
circumstances which does not have printed on the cover, front or back thereof,
the name and address of:
   A.   The person who caused the same to be printed, written, compiled or
manufactured.
   B.   The person who caused the same to be distributed.
   C.   In the event the person who caused the same to be printed, written,
compiled or manufactured, or distributed is a fictitious person or club, there
shall appear on said handbill, circular, tract or leaflet, in addition to such
fictitious name, the true name of the owner, manager or agent of the person
sponsoring said handbill. (1960 Code)
4-8-2: HANDBILLS ADVOCATING DISLOYALTY OR BREACH OF PEACE:
No person shall post, hand out or distribute any commercial or noncommercial
handbill, circular, tract or leaflet which reasonably shall tend to incite riot
or other public disorder or which advocates disloyalty to, or the overthrow of
the government of the United States by force and arms or other unlawful means,
or which urges any unlawful conduct or encourages or reasonably tends to
encourage a breach of the public peace of the community. (1960 Code)
4-8-3: TIP SHEETS PROHIBITED:
A person shall not, upon any street, sidewalk, highway or parkway, cast, throw
or deposit, sell or distribute among pedestrians or to persons in vehicles, any
tip sheet or any commercial advertising handbill, or any handbill distributed
for the purpose of advertising any merchandise, commodity, property, business,
service, art or skill, offered, sold or rendered for hire, reward price, trade
or profit. (1960 Code)
4-8-4: HANDBILLS EXPRESSING VIEWS:
This section shall not be deemed or construed to prohibit or restrict the
distribution of written or printed matter devoted to the expression of views,
opinions, beliefs or contentions relating to religious, political or
sociological subjects, or to public or civic affairs, or to labor disputes or
other controversies, or to community, state, regional, national, or
international affairs or which treat of any social or economic order, or which
relate to the arts or sciences; or which are aimed to redress any grievance, or
which otherwise are not distributed for the purpose of soliciting business,
trade or custom; nor shall the terms hereof be deemed to include the printed
notice of an event which is not arranged for profit or to stimulate the
business, trade or traffic of the person who causes the dissemination of the
notice, even though a monetary contribution or an admission fee be requested or
accepted in connection with such event. (1960 Code)
4-8-5: THROWING TIP SHEETS AND HANDBILLS:
The city council hereby finds and determines that the casting, throwing,
depositing, selling or distributing among pedestrians or to persons in
vehicles, any such tip sheet or any such handbill, tends to impede the ordinary
and lawful use of the public highways to a far greater extent than does the
vending, peddling or hawking of newspapers, magazine, periodicals or other
printed matter and that the publications described in this section are not
commonly sold or disposed of by newsboys or news vendors. (1960 Code)
4-8-6: DISORDERLY HOUSE:
No person shall keep a riotous or disorderly house, or permit any riotous or
disorderly conduct in his house, yard or premises connected with his house, or
be guilty of any riotous or disorderly conduct in any house, yard or premises,
whereby the peace, quiet or decency of the neighborhood of such house or of any
person may be disturbed. (1960 Code)
4-8-7: ABANDONED WELLS:
Every person who digs, drills, excavates, constructs, owns or controls any
abandoned water well or abandoned oil well, and every person owning or having
possession of any premises on which any such abandoned well exists, shall cap
or otherwise close the mouth of or entrance to such well in such manner as to
prevent persons from falling therein and in such a manner that such capping or
covering cannot be removed by accident or inadvertence or such persons shall
fill such a well. (1960 Code)
4-8-8: FAILURE TO CAP ABANDONED WELLS:
Whenever any person fails or refuses to perform any act required by this
chapter the city may itself cap, cover or fill such well. It is not necessary
to follow the provisions of this section as condition precedent to any criminal
prosecution. (1960 Code)
4-8-9: RESERVED:
(Ord. 85-565)
4-8-10: FORTUNE TELLING:
4-8-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
AGENT: Every person who acts as an agent for any other person, assists or
procures customers for another person for the purpose of engaging in anything
which is defined herein as "fortune telling", or who receives any fee, reward
or donation for such procuring.
   CITY COUNCIL: The city council of the city of Temple City.
   FOR PAY: For a fee, reward, donation, loan or receipt of anything of value.
   FORTUNE TELLING: Every person who engages in, practices or professes to
practice, or acts as an agent for, the business or art of astrology,
phrenology, life reading, mesmerism, fortune telling, cartomancy, clairvoyance,
clairaudience, crystal gazing, spirit photography, spirit writing, spirit
voices, spirit psychometry, seership, prophecy, augury, palmistry,
materialization, etherealization, numerology, physiognomy, necromancy,
clairsentience, dreams, apportism, extoplasm, levitation, mediumship, seance,
soothsaying, psychic healing, divination by magic, radiesthesia, or any other
similar art or business or craft.
"Fortune telling" shall further mean (in the alternative) every person who, by
means of occult or psychic powers, faculties or forces, spirits, cards,
talismans, charms, potions, magnetism or magnetized articles or substances,
animal sacrifice or by using parts of animals or human beings, effigies, or any
craft art described in this chapter, or similar art or craft which may be known
by another name or title in any other language, which purports to or does tell
fortunes, life readings, find or restore lost or stolen property, located oil
wells, gold or silver, or other ore or metal, restore lost love or affection,
unite loved ones, wives, husbands, children, lost relatives or friends, procure
lovers, wives or husbands, diagnosis of disease or injury, casts spells, cause
sickness or injury, advises of the past, present or future, or by such means
gives counseling or advice whatsoever, and who demands, solicits or receives
directly or indirectly a fee or reward or who accepts any donation therefor.
(1960 Code)
4-8-10-2: PERMIT AND COMPLIANCE WITH CONDITIONS REQUIRED:
   A.   No person shall conduct, engage in, carry on, participate in or
practice (or act as an agent for) fortune telling or cause the same to be done
for pay without having first obtained a permit from the city council.
   B.   No person shall violate any of the terms and conditions of a permit
issued pursuant to this section, nor any of the regulations and provisions
within this section. Each day such violation or violations occur shall
constitute a separate offense. (1960 Code)
4-8-10-3: PERMIT APPLICATION:
Every natural person who, for pay, actively conducts, engages in, carries on,
or practices fortune telling, whether as principal or agent, shall file a
separate verified application for a permit with the city clerk. The application
shall contain:
   A.   The name, home and business address, and home and business phone number
of the applicant.
   B.   The record of conviction for violations of law, excluding minor traffic
violations.
   C.   The fingerprints of the applicant on a form provided by the Los Angeles
County sheriff's department.
   D.   The address, city and state, and the approximate dates, if any, where
and when the applicant practiced a similar business, either alone or in
conjunction with others.
   E.   Nonrefundable permit fee. (1960 Code; amd. Ord. 97-805)
4-8-10-4: INVESTIGATION:
Upon filing of the application, it shall be referred by the city clerk to the
sheriff's department for investigation, report and recommendation. The
investigation shall be conducted to verify the facts contained in the
application and any supporting data. The investigation shall be completed and a
report and recommendation made in writing to the city council within fourteen
(14) days after the filing of the application, unless the applicant requests or
consents to an extension of the time period. If the report recommends denial of
the permit to the applicant, the grounds for the recommended denial shall be
set forth. At the time of the filing of the report and recommendation with the
city council, a copy thereof shall be served personally or by certified mail by
the city clerk on the applicant, accompanied by a notice to the applicant who
may request to be heard when the city council considers the application and
report. (1960 Code)
4-8-10-5: HEARING AND DECISION BY CITY COUNCIL:
   A.   The city council shall consider the application and the report and
recommendation at a hearing held at a regularly scheduled meeting on or before
the seventh day after filing of the report and recommendation referred to in
section
4-8-10-4 of this chapter.
   B.   Notice of time and place of the hearing shall be given to all parties
by the city clerk at least three (3) days prior to the hearing.
   C.   Any interested party shall be heard upon a reasonable request.
   D.   City shall have the burden of proof to show the permit should be
denied; otherwise, it will be granted.
   E.   The decision of the city council to grant or deny the permit shall be
in writing, and if adverse to the applicant, shall contain findings of fact and
a determination of the issues presented.
   F.   Unless the applicant agrees in writing to an extension of time, the
city council shall make its order denying or granting the application within
fifteen (15) days after completion of the hearing on the application for a
permit and shall notify the applicant of its action by personal service or
certified mail.
   G.   Any member of the city council who is absent from the hearing or has
not read or heard the record of the proceedings shall not vote on the decision.
(1960 Code)
4-8-10-6: ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
   A.   The city council shall approve the issuance of the permit if they find:
      1.   All the information contained in the application and supporting data
is true.
      2.   The applicant has not, within the previous six (6) months, been
convicted of any violation of this section or any law relating to fraud or
moral turpitude.
      3.   The applicant appeared in person at the hearing.
      4.   The applicant agrees to abide by and comply with all conditions of
the permit and this section.
   B.   The city council shall deny the permit only if it cannot make each of
the findings set forth above.
   C.   If the city council approves the permit, the city clerk shall
thereafter issue the permit when the fee required by this section has been
paid.
   D.   The term of the permit shall not exceed one year. The city council, at
its discretion, may grant a permit for a period of less than one year, and may
impose such reasonable conditions upon the granting of such permit as, in the
discretion of the city council, based upon the evidence presented in connection
with the application for the permit, are necessary for the protection of the
public health, safety and welfare. A renewal application shall be filed no
later than thirty (30) days prior to the expiration of the permit and shall be
processed in the same manner as a new application. Should the information on
the renewal application not vary from the initial application; the sheriff's
investigation indicate that the same is true and the city clerk verifies that
no complaints have been filed against the previous permit; the requirement for
a hearing before the city council for a renewal permit may be waived and the
city manager may grant approval. (1960 Code; amd. Ord. 97-805)
4-8-10-7: EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Religion: This section does not apply to, and it shall not be construed
to interfere with the belief, practices or usage of an incorporated
ecclesiastical governing body or the duly licensed teacher or minister, priest,
rector or an accredited representative who holds a certificate of credit,
commission, or ordination under the ecclesiastical laws of a religious
corporation which is incorporated under the laws of the state of California, or
any voluntary religious association, and who fully conforms to the rites and
practices prescribed by the supreme conference, convocation, convention,
assembly, association or synod of the system or faith with which they are
affiliated, thereof acting in good faith and without personal fee, reward,
donation or the solicited or unsolicited promise of any fee, reward or
donation. Any church or religious association or organization which is
organized for the primary purpose of conferring certificates of commission,
credit or ordination for price, fee, donation or reward, and not primarily for
the purpose of teaching and practicing a religious doctrine or belief, shall
not be deemed to be a bona fide church or religious organization.
      1.   Except as provided in subsection A3 of this section, the fees,
gratuities, emoluments and profits thereof shall be regularly accounted for and
paid solely to or for the benefit of the bona fide church or religious
association, as defined in this section.
      2.   The minister holding a certificate or ordination from such bona fide
church or religious association, as defined in this section, shall file with
the city clerk a copy of the minister's name, age, street address and phone
number in this city where the activity set forth in this section is to be
conducted.
      3.   Such bona fide church or religious association, as defined in this
section, may pay to its ministers a salary or compensation based upon a
percentage basis, pursuant to an agreement between the church and the minister
which is embodied in a resolution and transcribed in the minutes of such church
or religious association.
   B.   Education: This section does not apply to, nor shall be construed to
interfere with the functions, research, instruction, practice, therapy,
treatment, diagnosis, healing art or science, make prognosis, predictions or
foretelling the results of injury, disease, condition, state, status, future
consequences of possible actions of behavior, in both mental and physical
aspects of any animal or human activity, or in any area of science, medicine,
psychology, psychiatry or investigation which is duly certified and/or licensed
by the state of California, or permitted by funding by federal, state, county,
local, foundation or educational grants, or with any international organization
with which the United States maintains diplomatic relations.
Nor shall this section apply to any student who is enrolled in an approved
educational institution when the course of study includes anything which is
defined herein; nor shall it apply to any student, intern or person who is
under the direct or indirect supervision of any individual who is acting within
the purview of his or her license or certification. (1960 Code)
4-8-10-8: FEES:
The fees applied to fortune telling for a business license and permit shall be
set and/or modified by resolution of the city council. (1960 Code; amd. Ord.
91-703)
4-8-10-9: SITING:
All fortune telling shall be conducted only at sites authorized by the Temple
City zoning code, and shall be conducted in strict accordance with applicable
sign regulations. (1960 Code; amd. Ord. 95-774)
4-8-11: RESERVED:
(Ord. 95-774)
4-8-12: SOLICITING IN CITY OR COUNTY BUILDINGS:
No person shall solicit in any manner for any purpose in any city building.
(1960 Code)
4-8-13: UNSIGHTLINESS:
Any person, firm or corporation, who owns or has the care or management of any
real property and wilfully permits any part of the property to become so
unsightly as to detract from the appearance of the immediate neighborhood and
who fails to remedy the condition within thirty (30) days from being ordered to
do so by the city council is guilty of a misdemeanor. (1960 Code)
4-8-14: RESERVED:
(Ord. 19-1035)
4-8-15: RESERVED:
(Ord. 19-1035)
4-8-16: RESERVED:
(Ord. 19-1035)
4-8-17: RESERVED:
(Ord. 19-1035)
4-8-18: SIGNS:
No person shall paint, post, attach or affix any handbill, dodger, notice, sign
or advertisement upon or to any bridge, fence, building or other property
belonging to the city, or any tree situated in any street of said city, and no
person shall deface, mar or disfigure any bridge, fence, building or structure
belong to said city, or any tree situated in any city street of said city, by
painting, cutting, scratching or breaking the same or attaching or affixing
anything thereto. (1960 Code)
4-8-19: ERECTION OF SIGNS:
No person shall erect, construct, place or maintain any signboard, billboard,
sign or advertisement in or on any city street of the city of Temple City.
(1960 Code)
4-8-20: STREET SIGNS:
Nothing in sections
4-8-18 and
4-8-19 of this chapter shall be construed to prohibit the erection or the
placing in any city street of mileposts, mile boards, guide boards or
guideposts, or the painting, pasting, attaching or affixing of warning signs,
notices or signboards upon bridges, fences, buildings or other structures
belonging to the city of Temple City, under authority of the city council
thereof. (1960 Code)
4-8-21: ITEM PRICING:
Every retail grocery store or grocery department within a general retail
merchandise store which uses an automatic checkout system shall cause to have a
clearly readable price indicated on each packaged consumer commodity offered
for sale.
   A.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any of the following:
      1.   Any consumer commodity which was not generally item priced on
January 1, 1977, as determined by the department of food and agriculture
pursuant to subdivision (c) of section 12604.5 of the Business And Professions
Code of the state of California, as effective July 8, 1977.
      2.   Any unpackaged fresh food produce, or to consumer commodities which
are under three (3) cubic inches in size, weight less than three (3) ounces,
and are priced under thirty cents ($0.30).
      3.   Any consumer commodity offered as a sale item or as a special, and
which is so designated on the package.
      4.   Any business which has as its only regular employees the owner
thereof, or the parent, spouse, or child of such owner, or, in addition
thereto, not more than two (2) other regular employees.
      5.   Identical items within a multi-item package.
      6.   Items sold through a vending machine.
   B.   For the purpose of this section:
   AUTOMATIC CHECKOUT SYSTEM: A computer capable of reading the universal
product code or similar code to determine the price of items being purchased.
   CONSUMER COMMODITY: Includes:
      1.   Food, including all material whether solid, liquid or mixed, and
whether simple or compound, which is used or intended for consumption by human
beings or domestic animals normally kept as household pets, and all substances
or ingredients added to any such material for any purpose. This definition
shall not apply to individual package of cigarettes or individual cigars.
      2.   Napkins, facial tissues, toilet tissues, foil wrapping, plastic
wrapping, paper toweling and disposable plates and cups.
      3.   Detergents, soaps and other cleaning agents.
      4.   Pharmaceuticals, including nonprescription drugs, bandages, female
hygiene products and toiletries.
   GROCERY DEPARTMENT: An area within a general retail merchandise store which
is engaged primarily in the retail sale of package food, rather than food
prepared for immediate consumption on or off the premises.
   GROCERY STORE: A store engaged primarily in the retail sale of packaged
food, rather than food prepared for consumption on the premises.
   SALE ITEM OR SPECIAL: Any consumer commodity offered in good faith for a
period of seven (7) days or less, on sale at a price below the normal price
that item is usually sold for in that store.
   C.   Violation of this section shall constitute an infraction under section
1-2-0 of this code. (1960 Code; amd. Ord. 81-504)
CHAPTER 9
DISPLAY OF BOOKS, MAGAZINES AND OTHER PUBLICATIONS
SECTION:
4-9-0: Definitions
4-9-1: Sealing Of Materials
4-9-2: Exemption To Sealing
4-9-3: Posting Of Signs
4-9-4: Minor Need Not View Or Gain Control Of Material
4-9-5: Defense In Prosecution
4-9-6: Exemption Of Parent Or Guardian
4-9-7: Persons Exempt
4-9-8: Exemption Of Business Person
4-9-9: Penalties, Prior Convictions
4-9-10: Public Nuisance
4-9-11: Effective Date
4-9-12: Video Stores
4-9-0: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings as ascribed to them by this section:
   COMMERCIAL PURPOSES: Means and includes, displaying, advertising or
attracting for the purpose of merchandising or selling.
   HARMFUL MATTER: The term or meaning of the term "harmful matter to minors"
as defined by state law, has no applicability to this chapter.
   PERSON: Any individual, partnership, firm, association, corporation or legal
entity. (1960 Code; amd. Ord. 80-497)
4-9-1: SEALING OF MATERIALS:
No person shall for commercial purposes knowingly display, cause to be
displayed or permit to be displayed in any business at any time open to minors
(unless accompanied by a parent or guardian) any book, magazine or other
publication or matter which depicts any photograph or pictorial representation
of any of the anatomical parts of a person's genitals or anus, or any act of
sexual intercourse, oral copulation, sodomy, masturbation or bestiality,
whether actual or simulated, when to the average adult person in this community
such photograph or pictorial representation has as its primary purpose, design
or effect sexual arousal, gratification or affront; unless such book is stapled
closed, or is by any other means sealed in such a manner as to reasonably
restrict and deter its being opened prior to sale, whereby such photograph or
pictorial representation may become exposed to the view of any minor. (1960
Code)
4-9-2: EXEMPTION TO SEALING:
As defined in section
4-9-1 of this chapter, any book, magazine or other publication or matter need
not be wrapped, stapled, closed or sealed when displayed from an area which
places such book, magazines or other publication or matter reasonably beyond
the reach of any minor, provided that no such book, magazine or other
publication or matter depicts any photograph or pictorial representation, as
defined in section
4-9-1 of this chapter, on its cover or elsewhere, whereby such photograph or
pictorial representation may by virtue of its display be readily viewed by a
minor in which case, such photograph or pictorial representation shall be
covered from view whether or not wrapped, stapled closed or by any other means
sealed as required by this chapter. Also exempted shall be any publication
classified as a newspaper containing at least forty percent (40%) of its
columnar inches devoted to news, current events and public commentaries (and
capable of being entered as second class matter in the U.S. post office), with
a bona fide subscription list of at least one percent (1%) of the population of
this city.
Further exempted shall be materials in public libraries and in bona fide
theatrical productions. (1960 Code)
4-9-3: POSTING OF SIGNS:
Any business, in which, for commercial purposes, there is displayed any book,
magazine or other publication or matter which depicts any photograph or
pictorial representation as defined by section
4-9-1 of this chapter and which is not wrapped, stapled closed, sealed or
covered as required by sections
4-9-1 and
4-9-2 of this chapter, shall have a sign posted at each of its doors normally
used or intended to be used for public admittance, which shall read:
Notice, this business displays sexually explicit materials. Admission to minors
is prohibited by law unless accompanied by a parent or guardian. Temple City
Code Chapter 9, Title 4
Said sign shall be not less than two (2) square feet in area and the letters
shall be not less than two inches (2") in height. (1960 Code)
4-9-4: MINOR NEED NOT VIEW OR GAIN CONTROL OF MATERIAL:
To commit a violation of sections
 4-9-1 and
4-9-2 of this chapter it is not required that a minor have actually viewed or
physically gained control of any book, magazine or other publication or matter
as defined by section
4-9-1 or 4-9-2 of this chapter, when such book, magazine or other publication
or matter is not wrapped, stapled closed, sealed or covered as required by
section
4-9-1 or
4-9-2 of this chapter. (1960 Code)
4-9-5: DEFENSE IN PROSECUTION:
It shall be a defense in any prosecution for any violation of this chapter that
the book, magazine or other publication or matter by virtue of its apparent
character, outward appearance or contemporary Los Angeles countywide reputation
would not cause the average adult person in this community to reasonably know
or suspect that it depicted any photograph or pictorial representation as
defined by section
4-9-1 of this chapter. It may also be evidence of a violation of this chapter
in any such prosecution that the book, magazine or other publication or matter
by virtue of its apparent character, outward appearance, or contemporary
countywide reputation would cause the average adult person in this community to
reasonably know or suspect that it depicted any photograph or pictorial
representation as defined by section
4-9-1 of this chapter. (1960 Code)
4-9-6: EXEMPTION OF PARENT OR GUARDIAN:
Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit any parent or guardian from having his
child or ward accompany him into any business otherwise in violation of any of
the provisions of this chapter. (1960 Code)
4-9-7: PERSONS EXEMPT:
The provisions of this chapter, with respect to the display, causing to be
displayed or permitted to be displayed any book, magazine or other publication
or matter as defined in section
4-9-1 or
4-9-2 of this chapter, shall apply only to persons having proprietary interest
in or managerial control of the ordinary and routine operation of the business
wherein and at which time there occurs a violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter. (1960 Code)
4-9-8: EXEMPTION OF BUSINESS PERSON:
Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit any person from admitting a minor into
any business which displays any unwrapped, unstapled, unsealed or uncovered
book, magazine or other publication or matter which depicts any photograph or
pictorial representation as defined in section
4-9-1 of this chapter provided that the minor is accompanied by an adult who
represents himself to be the parent or guardian of the minor and whom the
person, by the exercise of reasonable care, does not have reason to know is not
the parent or guardian of the minor, or that a minor who when not accompanied
by a parent or guardian, presented false documentation of being at least
eighteen (18) years of age, when to the average and prudent person such
documentation on would appear legitimate. (1960 Code)
4-9-9: PENALTIES, PRIOR CONVICTIONS:
Every person who violates any provision of this chapter is guilty of an
infraction. Every person who having been twice convicted for any violation of
this chapter, is upon each subsequent violation guilty of a misdemeanor
punishable by a fine of not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00), or
imprisonment in the county jail for not more than thirty (30) days, or both,
provided that both of the prior violations occurred within two (2) years period
of the subsequent violation. (1960 Code)
4-9-10: PUBLIC NUISANCE:
Any violation of this chapter is hereby declared to be a public nuisance which
may be abated as provided by law in addition to any infraction or misdemeanor
offenses. (1960 Code)
4-9-11: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This chapter shall become immediately effective and shall apply to existing as
well as new businesses. (1960 Code)
4-9-12: VIDEO STORES:
Video sales and rental stores shall conform to the following regulations:
   A.   The rental or sale of adult videos shall be limited to an incidental
portion of a video sales and rental store which is the principal use, offering
a full range of videos for home viewing.
   B.   No viewing of adult videos shall be permitted on the premises at any
time whatsoever.
   C.   The display of available adult videos shall be limited to a specified
separate area within the business.
   D.   The "adults only" section shall be separated from other display
materials within the store. The "adults only" section shall be situated:
      1.   So that store operator and employees can monitor activities within
the "adults only" section at all times; and
      2.   So that minors may not observe the content, pictures or jackets of
the material.
   E.   Each such "adults only" section shall be posted with a sign to read
"Adults Only" and/or "No One Under 18 Admitted".
   F.   No displays, posters, advertisements or promotional materials for adult
videos shall be visible from outside the store.
   G.   Each business owner operator of video sales and rental store shall sign
an acknowledgment of the above indicated restrictions or a statement that no
adult videos will be maintained on the premises.
   H.   Any video store not complying with the foregoing regulations shall be
classified as an "adult business" under section
9-1T-3 of this code. (1960 Code)
CHAPTER 10
CAMPING AND STORAGE OF PERSONAL PROPERTY
SECTION:
4-10-0: Purpose
4-10-1: Definitions
4-10-2: Unlawful Camping
4-10-3: Storage Of Personal Property In Public Places
4-10-4:    Notice, Impound, Reclamation, And Disposal Process
4-10-5:    Evidence Of Crimes, Contraband, And Hazardous Waste
4-10-6:    Costs Of Seizure And Disposal
4-10-0: PURPOSE:
The public streets and areas within the city of Temple City should be readily
accessible and available to residents and the public at large. The use of these
areas for camping purposes or storage of personal property interferes with the
rights of others to use the areas for which they were intended. The purpose of
this chapter is to maintain public streets and areas within the city of Temple
City in a clean and accessible condition. (Ord. 95-778)
4-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the particular provisions or the context otherwise requires, the
definitions contained in this section shall govern construction, meaning and
application of words and phrases used in this chapter.
   ABANDONED PERSONAL PROPERTY: Any personal property that the owner
surrenders, relinquishes, or disclaims, or, to a reasonable person, appears to
be personal property that the owner surrenders, relinquishes, or disclaims.
   CAMP: To pitch or occupy camp facilities; to live temporarily in a camp
facility or outdoors; to use camp paraphernalia.
   CAMP FACILITIES: Include, but are not limited to, tents, huts or temporary
shelters.
   CAMP PARAPHERNALIA: Includes, but is not limited to, tarpaulins, cots, beds,
sleeping bags, hammocks or noncity designated cooking facilities and similar
equipment.
   PARK: The same as defined in section
3-5A-0 of this code.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY: Tangible personal belongings. Tangible personal
belongings include any movable or tangible thing that is subject to ownership;
property that can be seen, weighed, measured, felt, or touched, such as tents,
tarpaulins, bedding, sleeping bags, carts, hammocks, household items, luggage,
backpacks, cooking utensils, money, legal or prescribed medication, documents,
clothing, and books. Personal property encompasses both camp facilities and
camp paraphernalia.
   PUBLIC AREA: Includes all property that is owned, managed or maintained by
the city and shall include, but is not limited to, any street, alley, park,
public right-of-way, recreational area, any place open to the public view or
other place to which the public has access.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY: Any building, parking structure, parking lot, utility lot,
right-of-way, park, or space, owned or maintained by the city, the County of
Los Angeles, the State of California, the United States government or other
public entity.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY: The surface and space in, on, above, through and below any
real property in which the city has a legal or equitable interest, whether held
in fee or any other estate or interest, or as a trustee for the public,
including, but not limited to, any street, boulevard, road, highway, freeway,
lane, alley, court, sidewalk, curb, parkway, river, tunnel, viaduct, bridge,
public easement, or dedicated easement.
   STORE: To put aside or accumulate for use when needed, to put for
safekeeping, to place or leave in a location.
   STREET: The same as defined in section
3-4A-0 of this code.
   UNATTENDED: No person is present with the personal property who asserts or
claims ownership over the personal property. Conversely, property is considered
"attended" if a person is present with the personal property and the person
claims ownership over the personal property.
   UNCLAIMED PERSONAL PROPERTY: Any personal property that is within the
custody of the city and that has not been claimed within a period of ninety
days by its owner or finder.
(Ord. 95-778; amd. Ord. 24-1075)
4-10-2: UNLAWFUL CAMPING:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to camp, occupy camp facilities or
use camp paraphernalia, in the following areas, except as otherwise provided:
      1.   Any park;
      2.   Any street;
      3.   Any public parking lot or public area, improved or unimproved.
   B.   Personal use of private residential property for camping may only be by
the property owner or by others with the owner's written consent and without
any form of compensation.
      1.   Such use shall not exceed seven consecutive days in duration, except
during the period between Memorial Day and Labor Day when such use shall not
exceed fourteen (14) consecutive days in duration.
      2.   Camping may not occur more than four (4) times per calendar year.
      3.   A minimum of fourteen (14) days is required between each camping
period.
   C.   The prohibition set forth in this section does not apply to:
      1.   Camping on public or private property pursuant to a permit issued by
the city; and
      2.   Day use for lawful activities on public property pursuant to a
permit issued by the city.
   D.   In addition to any other applicable requirements of the Temple City
Municipal Code, camping pursuant to this section shall comply with all of the
following operational requirements pertaining to camping:
      1.   Portable restrooms with toilet facilities must be provided and
accessible to campers on the private property and must comply with the
California Plumbing Code. Restrooms at city-owned parks do not qualify for use
by campers on private property.
      2.   Trash receptacles sufficient for the number of campers must be
provided.
      3.   The private property where camping occurs must be kept in a clean
and sanitary manner.
      4.   Trash and debris must be removed when camping ceases and must be
disposed of in trash receptacles.
      5.   Any outdoor storage of camping paraphernalia shall not be permitted
when not in use by campers.
      6.   Within the jurisdiction of the city, no permanent structures shall
be permitted in the floodplain, including, but not limited to, fencing.
      7.   Any use or placement of electrical cords shall be above the
floodplain and/or not exposed, if applicable, and no dangerous condition should
be present.
      8.   All parking shall be on paved surfaces only.
   E.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, camping shall not
be permitted where such use violates any provision of this Code or state law.
   F.   Enforcement. Law enforcement officers shall not enforce this camping
section when the individual is on public property and there is no available
overnight shelter.
      1.   The term "available overnight shelter" is a public or private
shelter, with an available overnight space, for an individual experiencing
homelessness, at no charge.
      2.   City staff or their designee shall initiate contact with the
shelters to determine whether the shelters have available space and, if so, the
number of available sleeping spaces. Prior to issuing any citation, city staff
or their designee shall also confirm that a shelter has available space that
can be utilized by that particular individual. No city staff or law enforcement
officer shall issue a citation to a homeless person sleeping, lying, sitting,
or camping outdoors unless the city staff or law enforcement officer first
confirms the shelter has available space that can be utilized by the
individual.
   G.   Penalty. It is unlawful for any person to violate any provision or to
fail to comply with any of the requirements of this section. A violation of any
of the provisions of failing to comply with any of the mandatory requirements
of this section shall constitute a misdemeanor; except that notwithstanding any
other provision of this chapter, any such violation constituting a misdemeanor
under this section may, at the discretion of the City Attorney or the citing
officer on the scene, be charged and prosecuted as an infraction.
(Ord. 95-778; amd. Ord. 24-1075)
4-10-3: STORAGE OF PERSONAL PROPERTY IN PUBLIC PLACES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to store, dump, place, or deposit personal
property, including camp facilities and camp paraphernalia, in the following
areas, except as otherwise provided by resolution of the city council:
   A.   Any park, yard, building setback, vacant land, open space, park, or any
other area open to, accessible to, or controlled by the public;
   B.   Any street;
   C.   Any public parking lot or public area, improved or unimproved,
including sidewalks, alleys, and bus stops.
   D.   Personal property stored in violation of this section is subject to
impoundment and disposal as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 95-778; amd. Ord. 24-1075)
4-10-4: NOTICE, IMPOUND, RECLAMATION, AND DISPOSAL PROCESS:
   A.   Any personal property identified by any law enforcement officer, code
enforcement officer, or the city manager or designee, that is unattended or
stored in violation of this chapter may be seized, impounded, and stored in
accordance with the following procedure:
   B.   Pre-removal notice: Pre-removal notice will be deemed as provided if a
written notice is provided to the person who is storing or claims ownership of
the personal property, or is posted conspicuously on or near the personal
property. The notice shall contain the following:
      1.   A general description of the personal property to be removed;
      2.   The location from which the personal property will be removed;
      3.   The date and time the notice was posted;
      4.   A statement that the personal property is being stored in violation
of this code;
      5.   A statement that the personal property will be removed and impounded
if not removed within twenty-four (24) or forty-eight (48) hours;
      6.   A statement that moving the personal property to another location in
the public area will not constitute a removal of the personal property;
      7.   The contact information for any city official or designee to answer
questions regarding the stored personal property, including claiming such
property; and
      8.   A statement warning the owner that the personal property may be
discarded if not claimed within ninety days of removal.
   C.   Twenty-four (24)/forty-eight (48) hour pre-removal notice: Any personal
property stored in any right-of-way will be subject to removal twenty-four (24)
hours after the pre-removal notice is posted. Any personal property stored in
any prohibited area not in a right-of-way will be subject to removal forty-
eight (48) hours after the pre-removal notice is posted.
   D.   Post-removal notice: Upon removal of personal property stored in
violation of this chapter, written notice of the removal and impoundment of the
personal property shall be conspicuously posted in the area where the personal
property was removed or provided to the owner of the personal property. The
written notice shall contain the following:
      1.   A general description of the personal property removed;
      2.   The date and approximate time the personal property was removed;
      3.   A statement that the personal property was stored in violation of
this code;
      4.   The location where the removed personal property can be retrieved,
including the address, telephone number, and an internet website address, if
available, from which the owner may obtain information as to the removal and
reclamation of the personal property; and
      5.   A statement that the personal property may be discarded if not
reclaimed within ninety (90) days of the removal and impoundment.
   E.   The owner of personal property that has been removed and impounded will
be permitted to retrieve the impounded personal property.
      1.   The owner of impounded personal property is permitted to reclaim
their personal property by contacting the city through one of the contact
methods provided in the pre-removal and post-removal notices to make
arrangements for the retrieval of their property.
      2.   The owner of the personal property may repossess the personal
property upon submitting satisfactory proof of ownership during the ninety (90)
day holding period. A person may establish ownership by, among other methods,
describing the location where the personal property was found and providing a
specific and detailed description of the personal property, and providing valid
proof of identity if that is required to determine ownership. If ownership
cannot be determined to the satisfaction of the city manager or designee, they
may refuse to return the personal property until ordered to do so by a court of
competent jurisdiction; however, the city shall continue to hold the personal
property until such a determination is made.
      3.   Reasonable accommodations will be made if the owner of impounded
personal property is unable to reclaim their personal property within the
ninety day period provided in this chapter.
   F.   The city may impound personal property seized in any manner designed
for safe keeping of such personal property.
   G.   After the passage of ninety or more days, the property may be
appropriated to the city for the city's use upon order of the city manager or
designee, or the city may dispose of unclaimed personal property. The city
shall not be required to undertake any search for, or return, any impounded
personal property stored for longer than ninety (90) days. The city shall
maintain records of the dates impounded personal property was removed and
discarded.
(Ord. 24-1075)
4-10-5: EVIDENCE OF CRIMES, CONTRABAND, AND HAZARDOUS WASTE:
   A.   Section
4-10-4 does not apply to any personal property that constitutes evidence in a
crime, such as weapons, ammunition, controlled substances, stolen property, or
any other property which constitutes evidence of a crime, and such property may
be seized without notice. The nature of the property and its location will be
documented, and possession of such property may be transferred to local law
enforcement for processing and investigation.
   B.   Section
4-10-4 does not apply to any unattended personal property which presents an
immediate threat to public health or safety, is contraband, is hazardous waste,
or which clearly constitutes waste, refuse or trash, and may be disposed of
without notice.
   C.   Section
4-10-4 does not apply to any unattended personal property that is reasonably
believed to be intentionally abandoned or discarded, or reasonably believed to
be trash, refuse, waste, litter, junk, debris, detritus or rubbish, and such
property may be disposed of without notice.
   D.   Section
4-10-4 does not apply to any medical waste, including, but not limited to,
syringes, medical waste, medical cutting instruments, or any items whose
cleanliness or condition of sanitation pose a threat to the health and safety
of individuals in contact with such material.
(Ord. 24-1075)
4-10-6: COSTS OF SEIZURE AND DISPOSAL:
The city may require the owner of impounded personal property to pay the
reasonable costs of storage of such personal property seized pursuant to this
chapter. The owner of impounded personal property may submit a request for a
waiver of such costs due to a financial hardship. Payment of any reasonable
costs pursuant to this chapter is not a prerequisite for the return of
impounded personal property.
(Ord. 24-1075)
CHAPTER 11
SHOPPING AND LAUNDRY CARTS
SECTION:
4-11-0: Findings And Declaration
4-11-1: Definitions
4-11-2: Administration
4-11-3: Unauthorized Removal Or Possession
4-11-4: Cart Containment And Retrieval Plan
4-11-5: Approval Or Denial Of Cart Containment And Retrieval Plan; Appeal
4-11-6: Cart Identification
4-11-7: Business Premises Signage
4-11-8: Cart Retrieval; Retrieval Service
4-11-9: Cart Containment
4-11-10: Abandoned Shopping Or Laundry Carts; Abatement, Removal And Storage
4-11-11: Penalty
4-11-12: Enforcement
4-11-13: Applicability Of Other Laws
4-11-0:   FINDINGS AND DECLARATION:
   A.   The city council finds that shopping carts and laundry carts are being
removed from retail businesses and abandoned throughout the city on public and
private property, which blight the city of Temple City, create safety hazards
for pedestrians, create potential safety hazards for motor vehicle operators,
increase the operating costs of retail businesses and cause the city to expend
resources unnecessarily by deploying its employees to retrieve and remove such
carts from public and private property. The city council also finds that the
accumulation of such carts on public and private property diminishes property
values and promotes blight throughout the entire city.
   B.   The city council finds that the conditions created by the removal of
shopping carts and laundry carts from retail business premises and the
abandonment of such carts throughout the city of Temple City constitute
nuisances.
   C.   The purposes of this chapter are to require business owners that
provide shopping carts and/or laundry carts to their customers to maintain such
carts on their business premises, to require business owners to prevent persons
from removing such carts from their business premises, to make it unlawful for
any person to remove such carts from any business premises, to make it unlawful
for any person to abandon such carts onto any public or private property, and
to reduce the city's and/or business owners' costs of retrieving such carts
from public and private property.
   D.   Therefore, pursuant to California Business And Professions Code section
22435.8, effective containment or control of shopping carts shall be mandated,
and the presence of wrecked, dismantled or abandoned shopping or laundry carts,
or parts thereof, on property located outside the premises or parking lot of
the business that provided such cart, shall be cause to institute impoundment
and abatement procedures in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and
of California Business And Professions Code division 8, chapter 19 "shopping
and laundry carts". (Ord. 11-948)
4-11-1:   DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and phrases have the meanings set
forth below:
   ABANDONED SHOPPING OR LAUNDRY CART: A shopping or laundry cart located
outside the business premises of a retail establishment that furnishes such
cart for use by its patrons.
   BUSINESS OWNER: Any person; any partner, employee or agent of a partnership;
any officer, director, employee or agent of any corporation who conducts,
directs, manages, supervises, operates, oversees, or owns any retail business
within the city of Temple City that uses or locates shopping or laundry carts
on the business premises.
   BUSINESS PREMISES: The lot area, maintained and managed by the business,
that may include the building, parking lot and adjacent walkways, and where the
business' shopping or laundry carts are permitted. The parking area of a
business establishment located in a multistore complex or shopping center shall
include the entire parking area used by the complex or center.
   CART: A "shopping cart" or "laundry cart" as defined in this section.
   CODE: The Temple City municipal code.
   DIRECTOR: The Temple City community development director or designee
thereof.
   LAUNDRY CART: A basket which is mounted on wheels or a similar device,
provided by a laundry or cleaning establishment operator for the purpose of
transporting clothing or other fabrics and cleaning supplies within the
business premises of said laundry or cleaning establishment.
   RETAIL BUSINESS OR RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT: A business establishment within the
city of Temple City that provides or furnishes to its patrons or employees the
use of laundry and/or shopping carts.
   SHOPPING CART: A basket of any size that is mounted on wheels or a similar
device, provided by a store operator for the purpose of transporting goods of
any kind within the business premises of a retail business.
   SHOPPING OR LAUNDRY CART OWNER: The owner of a shopping or laundry cart, the
agent of the owner of such cart, including individuals or business entities, or
the retail establishment that furnishes such cart for use by its patrons. (Ord.
11-948)
4-11-2:   ADMINISTRATION:
The director is hereby authorized to enforce the provisions of this code. The
director shall have the authority to promulgate and/or adopt regulations to
implement the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 11-948)
4-11-3:   UNAUTHORIZED REMOVAL OR POSSESSION:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to perform any of the following
acts with respect to a shopping or laundry cart, when such cart has a sign
permanently affixed in conformity with this chapter:
      1.   To remove a shopping or laundry cart from the business premises of a
retail establishment with the intent to temporarily or permanently deprive the
shopping or laundry cart owner of possession of the cart;
      2.   To be in possession of any shopping or laundry cart that has been
removed from the business premises of a retail establishment with the intent to
temporarily or permanently deprive the shopping or laundry cart owner of
possession of the cart;
      3.   To be in possession of any shopping or laundry cart with serial
numbers or identification signage removed, obliterated, defaced, or altered,
with the intent to temporarily or permanently deprive the shopping or laundry
cart owner of possession of the cart;
      4.   To leave or abandon a shopping or laundry cart at a location other
than the business premises with the intent to temporarily or permanently
deprive the shopping or laundry cart owner of possession of the cart;
      5.   To alter, convert, or tamper with a shopping or laundry cart, or to
remove any part or portion thereof, or to remove, obliterate, deface, or alter
serial numbers or identification signage on a cart, with the intent to
temporarily or permanently deprive the shopping or laundry cart owner of
possession of the cart;
      6.   To be in possession of any shopping or laundry cart while that cart
is not located on the business premises, with the intent to temporarily or
permanently deprive the shopping or laundry cart owner of possession of the
cart.
   B.   This section shall not apply to a shopping or laundry cart owner, or
his or her agent, employee or patron who has written consent from the shopping
or laundry cart owner to be in possession of such cart or to remove such cart
from the store premises.
   C.   In any civil proceeding, any shopping or laundry cart with an
identification sign affixed to it pursuant to section
4-11-6 of this chapter shall establish a rebuttable presumption affecting the
burden of producing evidence that the property is that of the person or
business named in the sign and not abandoned by the person or business named in
the sign.
   D.   In any criminal proceeding, it may be inferred that any shopping cart
or laundry cart which has a sign affixed to it pursuant to section
4-11-6 of this chapter is the property of the person or business named in the
sign and has not been abandoned by the person or business named in the sign.
   E.   Nothing contained in this section shall preclude the application of any
other laws related to prosecution for theft. (Ord. 11-948)
4-11-4:   CART CONTAINMENT AND RETRIEVAL PLAN:
   A.   No shopping or laundry cart owner shall commence, conduct or continue
business operations without having implemented a city approved cart containment
and retrieval plan to prevent the unauthorized removal of such carts from store
premises, and, if removed, to retrieve such carts within twenty four (24) hours
of the removal, or notice of removal.
   B.   A proposed cart containment and retrieval plan shall be submitted to
the director in writing, on a city approved form, and shall include, at a
minimum, the following information:
      1.   Owner/Business Information: Information about shopping or laundry
cart owner and business establishment, including the name of each business
owner and/or shopping or laundry cart owner; the name of the retail
establishment; the physical address of the business premises; the name, address
and telephone number of each on site or off site owner or manager.
      2.   Cart Inventory: A complete inventory of all shopping or laundry
carts maintained on or in the premises.
      3.   Cart Identification Signage: A description of the identification
sign to be affixed to each shopping or laundry cart on the business premises.
The identification must, at a minimum, contain the information set forth in
section
4-11-6 of this chapter.
      4.   Business Premises Signage: A description of the signage to be posted
on the business premises, including sign and typeface size, sign text, and
posting locations. Signage must, at a minimum, conform to the requirements set
forth in section
4-11-7 of this chapter.
      5.   Mandatory Cart Retrieval: Evidence of a contract with a cart
retrieval service employed to retrieve shopping or laundry carts that have been
removed from their store premises within twenty four (24) hours of the removal,
or notice of removal.
      6.   Containment Methods: A detailed description of all methods the
shopping or laundry cart owner shall implement to prevent removal of carts from
the store premises. These methods may include, but are not limited to, those
set forth in section
4-11-9 of this chapter.
      7.   Community Outreach: A description of the community outreach process
under which the owner shall cause notice to be provided to customers that the
removal of carts from the business premises is prohibited and a violation of
state and municipal law. This process may include, but is not limited to,
fliers distributed on the store premises, warnings on shopping bags, signs
posted in prominent places near store and parking lot exits, direct mail,
announcements using intercom systems on the business premises, or other means
demonstrated to be effective. Any posting of signs shall comply with applicable
provisions of title 9, chapter 1, article L of this code.
      8.   Employee Training: A description of an employee training program
that shall be implemented by the shopping or laundry cart owner and conducted
at least once a year to educate new and existing employees on the cart
containment and retrieval plan.
   C.   No proposed cart containment and retrieval plan shall be accepted
unless accompanied by payment of a fee in an amount established by resolution
of the city council.
   D.   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, shopping or
laundry cart owners engaging in business in the city on the effective date of
this chapter shall implement a city approved cart containment and retrieval
plan in accordance with the provisions of this chapter within three (3) months
from the effective date of this chapter, with the exception that said owners
shall have one hundred eighty (180) days from the effective date of this
chapter to implement the cart containment methods pursuant to said city
approved plan.
   E.   It shall be the responsibility of a shopping or laundry cart owner to
implement and continuously maintain all provisions and measures of the city
approved cart containment and retrieval plan at all times he or she is engaging
in business in the city. (Ord. 11-948)
4-11-5:   APPROVAL OR DENIAL OF CART CONTAINMENT AND RETRIEVAL PLAN; APPEAL:
   A.   Director Authority: Cart containment and retrieval plans shall be
reviewed by the community development director. The director may approve,
conditionally approve, or deny a plan.
   B.   Application Review: The director shall approve the cart containment and
retrieval plan unless the director determines that any of the following grounds
for denial exist, in which case the cart containment and retrieval plan shall
be denied:
      1.   Implementation of the plan would violate provisions of the building,
zoning, health, safety, fire, or municipal code, or any county, state or
federal law which substantially affects public health, welfare or safety;
      2.   The plan fails to include all information required by this chapter;
      3.   The plan is insufficient or inadequate to prevent removal of carts
from the store premises;
      4.   Implementation of the plan would violate a term or condition of a
city approval, license, permit, or other entitlement; or
      5.   The applicant has made a false, misleading or fraudulent material
statement or omission of fact in the cart containment and retrieval plan.
   C.   Conditional Approval: The director may conditionally approve a plan if
imposing such conditions will eliminate any ground requiring denial of the
plan.
   D.   Appeal: Any business owner or shopping or laundry cart owner may appeal
the director's denial or conditional approval of a proposed cart containment
and retrieval plan by filing a written request for an appeal, on a city
approved form, with the director within ten (10) calendar days of such denial
or conditional approval. The appeal shall be conducted before the planning
commission as set forth in section
9-1E-4 of this code.
      1.   Any business owner or shopping or laundry cart owner dissatisfied
with the decision of the planning commission may appeal the commission's
decision to the city council by filing a written request for an appeal with the
city clerk, on a city approved form, within fifteen (15) calendar days of the
planning commission's decision. The appeal shall be conducted before the city
council as set forth in section
9-1E-4 of this code. (Ord. 11-948)
4-11-6:   CART IDENTIFICATION:
   A.   It shall be the responsibility of a shopping or laundry cart owner to
maintain each cart with an identification sign permanently affixed to it. Cart
identification signs shall be in conformity with that described in the owner's
city approved cart containment and retrieval plan and which, at a minimum,
contains all of the following information:
      1.   The identity of the shopping or laundry cart owner, or the retail
establishment, or both;
      2.   Notification to the public of the procedure to be utilized for
authorized removal of the cart from the business premises;
      3.   Notification to the public that the unauthorized removal of the cart
from the business premises, or the unauthorized possession of the cart, is a
violation of state and municipal law;
      4.   The address or telephone number for returning a cart removed from
the business premises to the shopping or laundry cart owner.
   B.   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, shopping or
laundry cart owners engaging in business in the city on the effective date of
this chapter shall affix identification to each cart, in conformity with
subsection A of this section, within three (3) months from the effective date
of this chapter. (Ord. 11-948)
4-11-7:   BUSINESS PREMISES SIGNAGE:
   A.   It shall be the responsibility of a shopping or laundry cart owner to
maintain signage concerning cart removal posted on the business premises.
Signage shall be in conformity with that described in the owner's city approved
cart containment and retrieval plan and which, at a minimum, meets the
following requirements:
      1.   Each sign shall be not less than eighteen inches (18") in width and
twenty four inches (24") in height with block lettering not less than one-half
inch (1/2") in width and two inches (2") in height;
      2.   A sign shall be posted in a conspicuous place within two feet (2')
of each customer entrance and exit;
      3.   Signs shall also be posted in a conspicuous place within the parking
lot or parking area of the business premises, as set forth in the owner's city
approved cart containment and retrieval plan;
      4.   Each sign shall state, at a minimum, as follows:
REMOVAL OF SHOPPING OR LAUNDRY CARTS FROM THE PREMISES IS PROHIBITED BY STATE
AND MUNICIPAL LAW. (B&P §22435.2; T.C.M.C.§5013 1
and
      5.   Each sign shall be in English, Spanish, and other such languages as
may be specified by the director.
   B.   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, shopping or
laundry cart owners engaging in business in the city on the effective date of
this chapter shall post signage on the store premises, in conformity with
subsection A of this section, within three (3) months from the effective date
of this chapter. (Ord. 11-948)
 
Notes
1 1. Editor note: T.C.M.C. § 5013 has been renumbered to section 4-11-3 of this
  chapter.
4-11-8:   CART RETRIEVAL; RETRIEVAL SERVICE:
   A.   It shall be the responsibility of a shopping or laundry cart owner to
secure and continuously maintain a service to retrieve shopping or laundry
carts which have been removed from their store premises within twenty four (24)
hours of the removal, or notice of removal. Service shall only be established
with a person or business entity engaged in the business of shopping or laundry
cart retrieval who possesses a valid Temple City business license and any other
requisite approval, license, or permit.
   B.   No person or business entity shall engage in the business of cart
retrieval without a valid Temple City business license. Such person or business
entity shall comply with the following requirements:
      1.   A person or business entity engaged in the business of cart
retrieval shall retain records showing written authorization from the shopping
or laundry cart owner, or an agent thereof, to retrieve carts and to be in
possession of carts retrieved. A copy of said records shall be maintained in
each vehicle used for cart retrieval.
      2.   Each vehicle used for the retrieval of shopping or laundry carts
shall display a sign that clearly identifies the person or business entity
engaging in the business of cart retrieval.
   C.   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, shopping or
laundry cart owners engaging in business in the city on the effective date of
this chapter shall secure a retrieval service, in conformity with subsection A
of this section, within three (3) months from the effective date of this
chapter. (Ord. 11-948)
4-11-9:   CART CONTAINMENT:
   A.   It shall be the responsibility of a shopping or laundry cart owner to
effectively contain or control all carts within the boundaries of the store
premises. An owner shall install and/or implement each method of containment
described in the city approved cart containment and retrieval plan. Methods of
containment may include, but are not limited to, the following:
      1.   Electronic or other disabling devices installed on the shopping or
laundry carts that prevent their removal from the business premises;
      2.   Bollards or other structures installed or erected on the perimeter
of the business premises that restrict shopping or laundry carts to these
premises. Such structures shall not interfere with fire lanes, handicap access,
or conflict with federal, state and local laws, including municipal building
and zoning codes;
      3.   Use of courtesy clerks to accompany customers to their vehicles and
return shopping or laundry carts to the store;
      4.   Security deposit for patron's use of a shopping or laundry cart;
and/or
      5.   Other demonstrably effective method, approved by the director, which
is likely to prevent cart removal from the business premises.
   B.   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, shopping or
laundry cart owners engaging in business in the city on the effective date of
this chapter shall implement all methods of cart containment, in conformity
with subsection A of this section and the owner's city approved cart
containment and retrieval plan, within six (6) months from the effective date
of this chapter. (Ord. 11-948)
4-11-10:   ABANDONED SHOPPING OR LAUNDRY CARTS; ABATEMENT, REMOVAL AND STORAGE:
   A.   The city may impound a shopping or laundry cart that has a permanently
affixed sign, in conformity with this chapter, provided both of the following
conditions have been met:
      1.   The shopping or laundry cart is located outside the "business
premises", as defined in this chapter;
      2.   The shopping or laundry cart is not retrieved within three (3)
business days from the date the shopping or laundry cart owner receives actual
notice from the city of such cart's discovery and location.
   B.   Notwithstanding other provisions of this section, the city may
immediately retrieve a shopping or laundry cart from public or private property
when the location of such cart will impede emergency services, as determined by
the director or his or her designee.
   C.   Any shopping or laundry cart that has been impounded by the city
pursuant to subsection A or B of this section shall be held at a location that
is reasonably convenient to the shopping or laundry cart owner and is open for
business at least six (6) hours of each business day.
   D.   When the city has impounded a shopping or laundry cart pursuant to
subsection A or B of this section, the city may recover its actual costs for
providing such service.
   E.   The city may fine a shopping or laundry cart owner fifty dollars
($50.00) for each occurrence in excess of three (3) during a six (6) month
period for failure to retrieve shopping or laundry carts in accordance with
this chapter. For purposes of this subsection, an "occurrence" shall include
all shopping or laundry carts impounded in accordance with this section during
a calendar day.
   F.   The city or authorized agent thereof may sell or dispose of any
shopping or laundry cart not reclaimed by the owner within thirty (30) calendar
days of receipt of actual notice from the city.
   G.   Notwithstanding subsection A of this section, the city may impound a
shopping or laundry cart that is located outside the business premises without
complying with the three (3) day advance notice requirement of subsection A of
this section provided that:
      1.   The shopping or laundry cart owner has been provided actual notice
within twenty four (24) hours following the impound, and said notice informs
the owner of the location where such cart may be claimed;
      2.   The impounded shopping or laundry cart is held at a location in
compliance with subsection C of this section;
      3.   Any shopping or laundry cart reclaimed by the owner within three (3)
business days following the date of actual notice of the impound shall be
released and surrendered to the shopping or laundry cart owner at no charge
whatsoever - including the waiver of any impound and storage fees or fines that
would otherwise be applicable pursuant to subsections D and E of this section;
         a.   Any shopping or laundry cart reclaimed by the owner thereof
within three (3) business days of actual notice of the impound shall not be
deemed an "occurrence" for purposes of subsection E of this section;
      4.   Any shopping or laundry cart not reclaimed within three (3) business
days following the date of actual notice of the impound shall be subject to
fees and fines pursuant to subsections D and E of this section;
      5.   The city or authorized agent thereof may sell or dispose of any
shopping or laundry cart not reclaimed within thirty (30) days following the
date of actual notice of the impound.
   H.   Notwithstanding other provisions of this section, the city may
immediately impound, sell and/or dispose of any shopping or laundry cart that
does not contain a permanently affixed sign required pursuant to this chapter
and whose ownership cannot otherwise be ascertained. (Ord. 11-948)
4-11-11:   PENALTY:
Notwithstanding any other provision of this code to the contrary, any person
who violates any provision of this chapter, and any cart owner who violates or
fails to comply with or continuously maintain any provision of the owner's city
approved cart containment and retrieval plan, is guilty of a misdemeanor
offense punishable in accordance with title 1, chapter 2 of this code. (Ord.
11-948)
4-11-12:   ENFORCEMENT:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter, and any cart owner who
violates or fails to comply with or continuously maintain any provision of the
owner's city approved cart containment and retrieval plan, shall be subject to
enforcement procedures for each violation by any lawful means available to the
city, including, but not limited to, those set forth in California Business And
Professions Code division 8, chapter 19, as well as title 1, chapters 2 and 4
of this code and chapter 2, article C of this title. (Ord. 11-948)
4-11-13:   APPLICABILITY OF OTHER LAWS:
This chapter does not exclusively regulate the conditions and use of property
within the city. This chapter shall supplement other provisions of this code
and other statutes, ordinances or regulations now existing or subsequently
enacted by the city, the state or any other entity or agency having
jurisdiction. (Ord. 11-948)
CHAPTER 12
SIDEWALK VENDING
SECTION:
4-12-0: Definitions
4-12-1: Administration
4-12-2: Vending License Required
4-12-3: Cart Permit Required
4-12-4: Application Requirements
4-12-5: Operational Requirements
4-12-6: Vending In Residential Areas
4-12-7: Prohibitions On Placement Of Stationary Or Roaming Carts
4-12-8: Sidewalk Vending Related To Parks, Special Events
4-12-9: Fines
4-12-10: Removal Of Cart
4-12-0:   DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions apply to this chapter:
 
BUSINESS LICENSE:                       A general license issued by the City to
                                        conduct business in the City.
                                        Any pushcart, stand, display, pedal-
                                        driven cart, wagon, showcase, rack, or
CART:                                   other non-motorized conveyance, and
                                        includes a stationary cart or a mobile
                                        cart.
                                        A permit issued by the City for a cart
CART PERMIT:                            to vend food or merchandise within the
                                        City.
                                        Part 7 of Division 104 of the
CALIFORNIA RETAIL FOOD CODE:            California Health and Safety Code
                                        (commencing at Section 113700).
DEPARTMENT:                             the City's Department of Community
                                        Development.
DIRECTOR:                               The director of the City's Department
                                        of Community Development.
FOOD:                                   Any type of edible substance or
                                        beverage.
HEALTH DEPARTMENT:                      The Los Angeles County Department of
                                        Public Health.
                                        Any and all licenses, permits,
                                        certifications, and courses required
LOS ANGELES COUNTY DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC and issued by the Los Angeles County
HEALTH PERMIT:                          Department of Public Health to vend
                                        food within the City in accordance with
                                        this chapter.
MERCHANDISE:                            Any item or goods that is not food.
                                        A pushcart, pedal-driven cart, wagon,
MOBILE CART:                            or other non-motorized conveyance used
                                        by a roaming sidewalk vendor.
                                        One (1) or more natural persons,
                                        individuals, groups, businesses,
                                        business trusts, companies,
                                        corporations, joint ventures, joint
                                        stock companies, partnership, entities,
PERSON or PERSONS:                      associations, clubs or organizations
                                        composed of two (2) or more individuals
                                        (or the manager, lessee, agent,
                                        servant, officer or employee of any of
                                        them), whether engaged in business,
                                        nonprofit or any other activity.
                                        A pushcart, pedal-driven cart, wagon,
                                        or other non-motorized conveyance used,
ROAMING VENDING CART:                   by a roaming sidewalk vendor, to be
                                        moved from place to place, and with
                                        stops only to complete a transaction.
                                        Has the same meaning as set forth in
                                        Government Code section 51036(b), and
ROAMING SIDEWALK VENDOR:                includes a sidewalk vendor who moves
                                        from place to place and stops only to
                                        complete a transaction.
                                        The rules and regulations, if any,
                                        established by the director and adopted
                                        by City Council resolution, concerning
RULES AND REGULATIONS:                  any sidewalk vending program that is
                                        intended to clarify and aid in the
                                        administration and enforcement of this
                                        chapter.
                                        Any paved surface in the public right-
SIDEWALK:                               of-way provided for the use of
                                        pedestrians and includes pedestrian
                                        paths.
                                        The program established by this chapter
SIDEWALK VENDING PROGRAM:               that is applicable to sidewalk vending-
                                        related activities.
                                        Has the same meaning as set forth in
                                        Government Code section 51036(a), and
                                        includes a person who sells food or
                                        merchandise from a pushcart, stand,
SIDEWALK VENDOR:                        display, pedal-driven cart, wagon,
                                        showcase, rack, or other non-motorized
                                        conveyance, or from one's person, upon
                                        a public sidewalk or other pedestrian
                                        path.
                                        A permit issued by the California
STATE SELLER'S PERMIT:                  Department of Tax and Fee
                                        Administration.
                                        A pushcart, stand, display, pedal-
                                        driven cart, wagon, showcase, rack, or
                                        other non-motorized conveyance, that is
STATIONARY VENDING CART:                intended to be operated from a fixed
                                        location by a stationary sidewalk
                                        vendor instead of being moved from
                                        place to place, where stops are limited
                                        to completing a transaction.
                                        Has the same meaning as set forth in
STATIONARY SIDEWALK VENDOR:             Government Code section 51036(c), and
                                        includes a sidewalk vendor who vends
                                        from a fixed location.
                                        To sell, offer for sale, expose or
                                        display for sale, solicit offers to
VEND:                                   purchase, barter, or exchange anything
                                        of value, even if the transaction is
                                        characterized as a donation.
                                        A license issued by the City to vend
VENDING LICENSE:                        food or merchandise within the City in
                                        accordance with this chapter. (Ord. 19-
                                        1035)
 
4-12-1:   ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   The department is authorized to issue sidewalk vending licenses and
vending cart permits in accordance with this chapter.
   B.   The director is authorized to develop, and enforce, this chapter and
any rules and regulations regarding the licensing, permitting, and operation of
sidewalk vending, that are adopted in accordance with this chapter. (Ord. 19-
1035)
4-12-2:   VENDING LICENSE REQUIRED:
No sidewalk vendor may vend or operate anywhere within the City without first
obtaining a sidewalk vending license. Sidewalk vendors must comply with the
terms and conditions set forth in the sidewalk vending license. (Ord. 19-1035)
4-12-3:   CART PERMIT REQUIRED:
No cart may be used for sidewalk vending anywhere within the City without first
obtaining a sidewalk vending cart permit for such cart. (Ord. 19-1035)
4-12-4:   APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   To obtain or to renew a sidewalk vending license or vending cart
permit, a sidewalk vendor must provide the following as part of the
application:
      1.   Valid identification, such as a State of California driver's license
or identification number, an individual taxpayer identification number, or a
municipal identification number, or any other government-issued identification
card.
      2.   The name, address and telephone number of the sidewalk vendor;
      3.   Proposed hours or days of operation;
      4.   Whether the sidewalk vendor intends to operate a stationary vending
cart or a roaming vending cart;
      5.   Proposed location of operation;
      6.   The type of merchandise or food offered for sale or exchange;
      7.   Proof of a valid City business license;
      8.   Proof of liability insurance and a signed indemnification in favor
of the City, in an amount not less: than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00)
for property damage and injuries, including injury resulting in death, caused
by the operation of the vending business;
      9.   The application or renewal fee;
      10.   A valid California Department of Tax and Fee Administration
seller's permit and any additional licenses from state or local agencies to the
extent required by law;
      11.   A permit from the Health Department for food-related vending, if
applicable;
      12.   A certificate of completion of a food handler course and present a
copy of the course completion certificate, if applicable;
      13.   A declaration that the information provided to the City is true and
correct; and
      14.   Any other information, including operations-related information, as
may be required by the director.
   B.   Vending licenses and vending cart permits will expire on December 31 of
the year issued.
   C.   Vending licenses and vending cart permits are not transferable.
   D.   A person whose vending license and vending cart permit is revoked may
not renew their vending license and vending cart permit for one (1) year. (Ord.
19-1035)
4-12-5:   OPERATIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Every cart used to vend food must be approved by the health department.
A cart may only vend the types of food that are listed and approved by the
health department under the health department permit.
   B.   A cart used for sidewalk vending must obtain, possess, and prominently
display a valid cart permit and all other required permits that are issued by
other public agencies such as a health department permit.
   C.   A cart used for sidewalk vending must be placed and used at all times
in compliance with the terms and conditions of the permit and all other
applicable laws and regulations, including the California Retail Food Code if
food is sold.
   D.   A vending cart must operate according to its approved hours of
operation. The director may impose reasonable hours of operation for sidewalk
vendors. For sidewalk vending in nonresidential areas, the director may limit
the hours of operation in a manner consistent with other businesses or uses on
the same street(s) in those nonresidential areas.
   E.   No vending cart, condiment table or trash receptacle may be left on the
sidewalk after a stationary sidewalk vendor's stated closing time.
   F.   A stationary sidewalk vendor must maintain a clean and trash-free ten
foot (10') radius from a stationary cart during hours of operation and must
leave the area clean by the approved closing time.
   G.   Sidewalk vendors that vend food items must provide a trash receptacle
for customers and must ensure proper disposal of customer trash. The trash
receptacle must be large enough to accommodate customer trash without resorting
to existing trash receptacles located on any block for use by the general
public.
   H.   A stationary vending cart that vends food must be operated within two
hundred feet (200') travel distance of an approved and readily available toilet
and handwashing facility. If the facility is located on private property, the
vendor must possess a copy of an enforceable contract between the private
property owner and the vendor allowing the vendor to utilize such facilities,
including the days and hours of operation.
   I.   Vendors must comply with all applicable federal, state, and local laws,
regulations, and ordinances.
   J.   No signs that are not attached to the vending cart may be used or
displayed.
   K.   No sidewalk vendor or vending cart may use any device that produces a
loud noise, nor may the vendor use or operate any loud speaker, public address
system, radio, sound amplifier, or other similar device. (Ord. 19-1035)
4-12-6:   VENDING IN RESIDENTIAL AREAS:
No stationary vending cart may be used to vend within a residential-zoned area.
However, a roaming sidewalk vendor may use a roaming vending cart within a
residential zone, and must move continuously except when necessary to complete
a sale. (Ord. 19-1035)
4-12-7:   PROHIBITIONS ON PLACEMENT OF STATIONARY OR ROAMING CARTS:
   A.   No sidewalk vendor may place or leave any vending cart:
      1.   Within five feet (5') of a marked crosswalk.
      2.   Within five feet (5') of the curb return of an unmarked crosswalk.
      3.   Within five feet (5') of any fire hydrant.
      4.   Within five feet (5') ahead and forty five feet (45') to the rear of
a sign designating a bus stop.
      5.   Within a marked bus zone.
      6.   Within ten feet (10') of a bench or shelter used for public transit.
      7.   Within five feet (5') of a driveway or driveway apron.
      8.   Within eighteen inches (18") from the edge of the curb.
      9.   Where placement impedes the flow of vehicular traffic such as on
public streets or public highways.
      10.   Within three hundred feet (300') of the nearest property line of
any property on which a public or private school building is located.
   B.   No vending cart may be chained or fastened to any pole, sign, tree, or
other object in the public right-of-way or left unattended.
   C.   No vending cart may impede the flow of pedestrian traffic by reducing
the path of travel to less than four feet (4'), or impede access to or restrict
the use of abutting property, including, but not limited to, residences and
places of business, in accordance with the Americans with Disabilities Act
(ADA).
   D.   Notwithstanding any prohibitions in this section, no sidewalk vendor
may install, use or maintain a cart where placement endangers the safety of
persons or property. (Ord. 19-1035)
4-12-8:   SIDEWALK VENDING RELATED TO PARKS, SPECIAL EVENTS:
   A.   No sidewalk vending is allowed within three hundred feet (300') of a
permitted event during the duration or operating hours of such an event. For
purposes of this section, the term "permitted events" means certified farmers'
markets, swap meets, and any event that requires an encroachment permit,
special event permit, or temporary event permits to allow the permit-holder the
temporary use of or encroachment on the sidewalk or other public area.
   B.   The City Manager or their designee may issue additional requirements
consistent with Government Code section 51038(b)(2)(B) for City-owned or
operated parks, effective after signs are posted giving notice of such
additional requirements. (Ord. 19-1035)
4-12-9:    FINES:
Sidewalk vending in violation of this chapter will not be punishable as a
criminal infraction or misdemeanor, but will be subject to an administrative
enforcement process including citations as follows:
   A.   For vending without a valid vending license or vending cart permit:
      1.   An administrative fine of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for a
first violation.
      2.   An administrative fine of five hundred dollars ($500.00) for a
second violation within one (1) year of the first violation.
      3.   An administrative fine of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for a
third violation and each subsequent violation, within one (1) year of the first
violation.
      4.   Upon proof of a valid permit issued by the City before such fines
are due, the City will reduce the amount of the fines to one hundred dollars
($100.00) for the first violation, two hundred dollars ($200.00) for the second
violation, and five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each violation thereafter.
   B.   For all violations of this chapter other than vending without a valid
vending license or vending cart permit as outlined in subsection A above:
      1.   An administrative fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for a first
violation.
      2.   An administrative fine of two hundred dollars ($200.00) for a second
violation within one (1) year of the first violation.
      3.   An administrative fine of five hundred dollars ($500.00) for a third
violation within one (1) year of the first violation.
      4.   An administration fine of five hundred dollars ($500.00) for a
fourth and each subsequent violation and revocation of the license or permit.
   C.   The City will provide the person subject to the fine notice of his or
her right to request an ability-to-pay determination and will make available
instructions or other materials for requesting an ability-to-pay determination.
   D.   All citations issued for violations of this chapter are subject to the
administrative hearing and appeal process under Chapter 1-4 of the Temple City
Municipal Code and the City's authority to use any civil remedy available to
collect any unpaid administrative fine.
   E.   Fines assessed pursuant this section may be reduced to twenty percent
(20%) of the original fine amount upon submission of proof of inability to pay
at an adjudication hearing if requested by the person pursuant to Government
Code section 51038(f). (Ord. 19-1035)
4-12-10:   REMOVAL OF CART:
The City may request a sidewalk vendor remove any cart that is in violation of
this chapter. If the sidewalk vendor refuses to remove the cart, or if a cart
has been abandoned, the City may cause the cart to be removed and may
subsequently dispose of the cart (including any associated merchandise and
food) if not claimed by the vendor within thirty (30) days of removal by the
City, or if an administrative appeal is filed related to the cart removal, then
thirty (30) days after a final decision in the administrative appeal (including
the payment of any outstanding administrative fines). (Ord. 19-1035)
CHAPTER 13
MOBILE FOOD VENDING
SECTION:
4-13-0: Definitions
4-13-1: Business License Required
4-13-2: Health Permit Required
4-13-3: Traffic Safety Regulations
4-13-4: Operating Time Limits
4-13-5: Operating Within Proximity To Schools
4-13-6: Use Of Amplified Devices Prohibited
4-13-7: Restroom Requirements
4-13-8: Trash Receptacle Requirements
4-13-9: Private Property Mobile Food Vending Requirements
4-13-10: Penalties
4-13-0:   DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
 
BUSINESS LICENSE:    A general license issued by the City to conduct business
                     in the City.
HEALTH DEPARTMENT:   The Los Angeles County Department of Public Health.
                     Any and all licenses, permits, certifications, and courses
HEALTH PERMIT:       required and issued by the Los Angeles County Department
                     of Public Health to vend food within the City in
                     accordance with this chapter.
MOTORIZED VEHICLE:   Any motorized vehicle, facility, or trailer.
MOBILE FOOD VENDING: The selling, vending, supplying or providing food, drinks
                     or any other consumables from any motorized vehicle.
MOBILE FOOD VENDOR:  Any person engaged in the activity of mobile food vending.
                     Any natural person, business, firm, company, non-profit
PERSON:              organization, corporation, club, trust, partnership,
                     association, or similar entity.
                     Any area dedicated to public use for public street
STREET:              purposes and includes, but is not limited to, roadways,
                     parkways, medians, alleys, sidewalks, or front curbs, and
                     public ways. (Ord. 19-1035)
 
4-13-1:   BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED:
No mobile food vendor may engage in or conduct any mobile food vending without
a business license. (Ord. 19-1035)
4-13-2:   HEALTH PERMIT REQUIRED:
No mobile food vendor may engage in or conduct any mobile food vending without
valid approvals from the health department, including but not limited to, a
health permit, and any applicable food handling permit and a valid letter grade
health permit. Health permits must be displayed at all times in a conspicuous
view upon any motorized vehicle used for mobile food vending. (Ord. 19-1035)
4-13-3:   TRAFFIC SAFETY REGULATIONS:
   A.   No mobile food vendor may operate or engage in any mobile food vending
on the exposed street and/or traffic side of the motorized vehicle.
   B.   No mobile food vendor may operate or engage in any mobile food vending
within twenty five feet (25') of any street corner controlled by a crosswalk,
traffic light, or stop sign.
   C.   No mobile food vendor may park any motorized vehicle for mobile food
vending within ten feet (10') of a bus stop, mailbox, or within ten feet (10')
of a driveway apron to preserve adequate visibility for vehicles to exit
driveways.
   D.   No mobile food vendor may use lighted or flashing signs on any
motorized vehicle used for mobile food vending. (Ord. 19-1035)
4-13-4:   OPERATING TIME LIMITS:
No mobile food vendor may stand or park any motorized vehicle used for mobile
food vending for more than one (1) hour in any particular location. However,
this one (1) hour period will not apply to a vendor who is lawfully parked and
peddling goods with a valid permit issued by the City for a special event.
(Ord. 19-1035)
4-13-5:   OPERATING WITHIN PROXIMITY TO SCHOOLS:
No mobile food vendor may operate or engage in any mobile food vending, or park
any motorized vehicle to engage in mobile food vending, in or upon any street
or other public place, including both public and private property, within three
hundred feet (300') of the nearest property line of any property on which a
public or private school building is located. (Ord. 19-1035)
4-13-6:   USE OF AMPLIFIED DEVICES PROHIBITED:
No mobile food vendor may use amplified sound-making devices on any mobile
vehicle while engaged in mobile food vending. Any mobile food vending operation
must comply with any applicable city noise ordinance. (Ord. 19-1035)
4-13-7:   RESTROOM REQUIREMENTS:
A mobile food vendor must demonstrate that there will be sufficient access to
nearby or on-site restroom facilities and hand washing stations provided for
customers of the mobile food vendor. Restrooms must be accessible during mobile
food vendor's hours of operation. Portable restroom facilities are not
permitted. No mobile food vendor may engage in any mobile food vending unless
the mobile food vendor or its customers have permission to use an approved and
readily available toilet and hand washing facility that is located within two
hundred feet (200') travel distance from the mobile food vending location. If
the toilet and hand washing facility is privately-owned, the mobile food vendor
must obtain written permission from the owner or authorized agent, and a copy
of the written permission must be kept in the motorized vehicle used for mobile
food vending and available for inspection at all times. The mobile food vendor
must clearly post on the motorized vehicle, a notice stating that: (1) a toilet
and hand washing facility has been made available as required by this section;
and (2) the location of that facility. (Ord. 19-1035)
4-13-8:   TRASH RECEPTACLE REQUIREMENTS:
Each motorized vehicle used for mobile food vending must be equipped with a
trash receptacle of a size adequate to accommodate all trash and refuse
generated by such mobile food vending. Each mobile food vendor must pick up and
deposit in the trash receptacle on the vehicle any paper, cups, wrappers,
litter, or other refuse of any kind which was a part of the goods or
merchandise supplied from the motorized vehicle and which has been left or
abandoned within twenty five feet (25') of such motorized vehicle on any public
or private property other than in a trash receptacle provided for such
purposes. No mobile food vendor may dispose of any trash or refuse in any such
public or private trash receptacle other than a trash receptacle owned,
operated, or otherwise provided by and under the control of such mobile food
vendor. (Ord. 19-1035)
4-13-9:   PRIVATE PROPERTY MOBILE FOOD VENDING REQUIREMENTS:
Mobile food vendors are prohibited on private property unless explicitly
permitted by the Zoning Code or the vendor is operating pursuant to a valid
permit issued by the City for a special event. (Ord. 19-1035)
4-13-10:   PENALTIES:
Any violation of this chapter is punishable as set forth under Chapter 1-2 and
Chapter 1-4 of the Temple City municipal code. (Ord. 19-1035)
TITLE 5
BUSINESS LICENSES AND REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUSINESS LICENSES
ARTICLE A. LICENSE REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
5-1A-0: Definitions
5-1A-1: Scope
5-1A-2: Substitute For Other Revenue Ordinances
5-1A-3: Effect Of Article On Past Actions And Obligations Previously Accrued
5-1A-4: Business Violating Law
5-1A-5: License Nontransferable
5-1A-6: Licenses Upon Which Fees Are Exempt
5-1A-7: Exemption Claims
5-1A-8: Proof Of Exempt Status
5-1A-9: Mistake In Amount
5-1A-10: Penalties For Failure To Pay Tax When Due
5-1A-11: License Tax Considered Debt
5-1A-12: Both Criminal And Civil Action Authorized For Failure To Pay License
Tax
5-1A-13: Enforcement Authority
5-1A-0: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this title, certain words and phrases are defined and
certain provisions shall be construed as herein set forth, unless it is
apparent from the context that a different meaning is intended.
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall be defined as set forth
herein:
   BUSINESS: Professions, trades and occupations and all and every kind of
calling whether or not carried on for profit or livelihood.
   CONDUCT: Conducting, managing or carrying on of a business either as owner,
officer, agent, manager, employee, servant or lessee.
   EMPLOYEE: The terms "individuals engaged, employed or used in the conduct of
business", or "employee", shall mean all individuals actively participating in
the conduct of such business, whether as owners, partners, managers or
employees, but shall exclude any employee or employee position requiring the
payment of wages for, or work hours of, less than twenty (20) hours per week or
less than four (4) weeks per year. "Employee" for the purpose of determining
rates is further defined in section
5-1B-9 of this chapter.
   LICENSE COLLECTOR: The city clerk, except in those cases where an
application is made to the county tax collector or other county official. (1960
Code)
5-1A-1: SCOPE:
It is the intent of this chapter to provide regulatory provisions only with
regard to the specific businesses set forth herein and to prescribe a schedule
of fees for revenue purposes only for those businesses set forth herein. In the
event that any provision of this chapter should be construed to be regulatory,
then neither such provision, nor any penal or regulatory provision thereof
shall be applied or be made applicable to any business activity which is
regulated exclusively by the state of California or other governmental agency,
or which by the laws of this state or court decision is not subject to
regulation by this city. Any business activity listed herein, for which a
permit is required, shall be construed as enacted for both revenue and
regulatory purposes. (1960 Code)
5-1A-2: SUBSTITUTE FOR OTHER REVENUE ORDINANCES:
Persons required to pay a license tax for transacting and carrying on any
business under this title shall not be relieved from the payment of any license
tax for the privilege of doing such business required under any other ordinance
of the city, and shall remain subject to the regulatory provision of other
ordinances and chapters of this code. (1960 Code)
5-1A-3: EFFECT OF ARTICLE ON PAST ACTIONS AND OBLIGATIONS PREVIOUSLY ACCRUED:
Neither the adoption of this title nor its superseding of any portion of any
other ordinance of the city shall in any manner be construed to affect
prosecution for violation of any other ordinance committed prior to the
effective date hereof, nor be construed as a waiver of any license or any penal
provision applicable to any such bond or case deposit required by any ordinance
to be posted, filed or deposited, and all rights and obligations thereunto
appertaining shall continue in full force and effect. (1960 Code)
5-1A-4: BUSINESS VIOLATING LAW:
The issuance of a license under this title shall not entitle the licensee to
engage in any business which for any reason is in violation of any law,
ordinance or code section. (1960 Code)
5-1A-5: LICENSE NONTRANSFERABLE:
No license hereunder shall be transferred or assigned, nor shall such license
be construed as authorizing any person other than the licensee to engage in the
licensed business. (1960 Code)
5-1A-6: LICENSES UPON WHICH FEES ARE EXEMPT:
No license fee shall be required for, of or from the following:
   A.   Those exempt from municipal license tax by virtue of the constitution
and the laws of this state or the United States. Those exempt from municipal
license tax under the rules applicable to interstate commerce;
   B.   Any institution or organization which is conducted wholly for the
benefit of charitable purposes and from which profit is not derived either
directly or indirectly by any person; nor shall any license be required for the
conducting of any entertainment, dance, concert, exhibition or lecture on
scientific, historical, literary, religious or moral subjects whenever the
receipts from the same are to be appropriated to any church or school, or to
any religious or benevolent purpose within the city; nor shall any license be
required for the conducting of any entertainment, dance, concert, exhibition or
lecture whenever the receipts from the same are to be appropriated for the
purposes and objects for which such association or organizations was formed,
and from which profit is not derived, either directly or indirectly, by any
person. Nothing in this chapter contained shall be deemed to exempt any such
institution or organization from complying with the provisions of this code
requiring such institution or organization to obtain a permit from the city
council or proper officer to conduct, manage or carry on any business;
   C.   Any enterprise or entertainment when the receipts derived therefrom are
to be apportioned to any church or school or to any religious or benevolent
and/or charitable purpose within the city;
   D.   Any honorably discharged soldier, sailor or marine of the United States
who is physically unable to obtain a livelihood by manual labor, and who is
peddling, hawking and vending any goods, wares or merchandise owned by him; and
who exhibits his authenticated discharge papers and an application approved by
the license collector of the city;
   E.   Any person peddling exclusively any fruit or vegetables or other
produce raised upon his lands; provided, however, that such person shall
furnish conclusive proof to the license collector of the city that such
products were raised by him on his lands before the issuance of license exempt
from fee, and any person so peddling shall carry said license with him;
   F.   Any employee or direct agent of a licensee conducting the business of
such licensee;
   G.   The conducting of any boarding home, boarding school, lodging house,
apartment house or home for the aged containing less than four (4) sleeping
rooms, or the conducting of any boarding house, day school or day nursery
accommodating less than four (4) persons for renumeration;
   H.   To conduct a sale at public auction of articles of personal property
belonging to residents of the city which articles shall not be a stock in trade
or any part of any stock in trade of any kind. (1960 Code)
5-1A-7: EXEMPTION CLAIMS:
Any person claiming an exemption pursuant to section
5-1A-6 of this article shall file a verified statement with the license
collector stating the facts upon which exemption is claimed. The license
collector shall, upon the proper showing contained in the certified statement,
issue a license to such person claiming exemption under the subdivisions of
this section without payment to the city of the license tax required by this
title. (1960 Code)
5-1A-8: PROOF OF EXEMPT STATUS:
In all cases of doubt as to any applicant being entitled to an exemption from
any license tax or from the application of any of the provisions of this title,
the burden of establishing the right of such exemption shall be upon the
applicant. All applications for such exemption shall be referred to the city
council which shall consider and act upon the same and grant or refuse such
exemption as in the use of its discretion it shall deem just. In the event the
city council refuses an exemption, the applicant therefor shall be entitled to
a hearing before the council upon request therefor, at which time the council
shall review the matter. However, nothing in sections
5-1A-6 through
5-1A-8 of this article shall exempt any person from complying with any of the
regulatory measures or provisions of any other ordinance of the city. (1960
Code)
5-1A-9: MISTAKE IN AMOUNT:
In no event shall any mistake made by the license collector in stating the
amount of the license fee or in receiving the license fee prevent or prejudice
the collection by the city of the amount actually due, together with all costs
of collection, from any person for conducting any business activity without a
license or for refusing to pay the license fees specified herein. Overpayments
shall be reimbursed upon approval of the city manager. (1960 Code)
5-1A-10: PENALTIES FOR FAILURE TO PAY TAX WHEN DUE:
For failure to pay an annual, semiannual or quarterly license tax when due, the
license collector shall add a penalty of ten percent (10%) of said license tax
on the thirtieth day of each month after the due date thereof; and/or failure
to pay a monthly, weekly or daily license tax when due, the license collector
shall add a penalty of ten percent (10%) of said license tax on the day
following the due date thereof. (1960 Code)
5-1A-11: LICENSE TAX CONSIDERED DEBT:
The amount of any license tax and penalty imposed by the provisions of this
title shall be deemed a debt to the city, and any person carrying on any
business without first having procured a license from said city so to do, shall
be liable to an action in the name of said city in any court of competent
jurisdiction for the amount of license tax and penalties imposed on such
business. (1960 Code)
5-1A-12: BOTH CRIMINAL AND CIVIL ACTION AUTHORIZED FOR FAILURE TO PAY LICENSE
TAX:
The conviction and fine or imprisonment of any person for engaging in any
business without first obtaining a license to conduct such business, shall not
relieve such person from paying the license tax to conduct such business, nor
shall the payment of any license tax prevent a criminal prosecution for the
violation of any of the provisions of this title. All remedies prescribed
hereunder shall be cumulative and the use of one or more remedies by the city
shall not bar the use of any other remedy for the purpose of enforcing the
provisions hereof. (1960 Code)
5-1A-13: ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY:
The Los Angeles County sheriff shall have and exercise the power to make
arrests for the violation of any of the provisions of this title and to enter,
free of charge, at any time, any place of business for which a license is
required by this title and to demand the exhibition of such license for the
current term by any person engaged or employed in the transaction of such
business; and if such person shall then and there fail to exhibit such license,
such persons shall be liable to the penalty provided in violation of this code.
(1960 Code)
ARTICLE B. LICENSE PROCEDURE
SECTION:
5-1B-0: License Required
5-1B-1: Separate Business
5-1B-2: Two Or More Businesses
5-1B-3: No License Transferable
5-1B-4: Unexpired License Heretofore Issued
5-1B-5: Duplicate License
5-1B-6: Posting And Keeping Licenses
5-1B-7: Application; Contents Of License
5-1B-8: Rates
5-1B-9: Affidavit; First License
5-1B-10: Numbered Plates
5-1B-11: Date Of Licenses
5-1B-12: How And When Payable; Proration
5-1B-13: Identification Cards Required
5-1B-14: Unexpired Licenses Heretofore Issued
5-1B-15: Refunds
5-1B-16: Revocation Of Licenses
5-1B-17: License Revocation Hearing
5-1B-18: Written Notice
5-1B-19: Use Of Criminal History Information
5-1B-20: Conviction Disqualification
5-1B-21: No Right To Appeal
5-1B-22: Adopting Title 7 Of The Los Angeles County Code
5-1B-23: Payment Of Charges And Fees
5-1B-0: LICENSE REQUIRED:
There are hereby imposed upon the businesses, trades, professions, callings and
occupations specified in this title license taxes in the amounts hereinafter
prescribed. It shall be unlawful for any person to transact and carry on any
business, trade, profession, calling or occupation in the city without first
having procured a license from said city so to do or without complying with any
and all applicable provisions of this title. This section shall not be
construed to require any person to obtain a license prior to doing business
within the city if such requirement conflicts with applicable statutes of the
United States or of the state of California. Any public utility operating
within the city and making franchise payments thereunder, is subject to the
provisions of this title only to the extent that such utility engages in retail
merchandising within said city not covered by franchise.
   A.   No person shall conduct any business in the city without having an
unrevoked license from the city so to do, valid and in effect at the time, and
without complying with any and all regulations of such business contained in
this code. No person who is an employee or who is the direct representative of
a licensee shall be required to pay a license fee for the doing of any part of
the work of such licensee;
   B.   Every person who operates any business, whether upon a cost, rental or
commission basis as a concession or upon rented floor space in or upon the
premises of any person licensed under any provision of this title, shall be
required to obtain a separate and independent license pursuant to the
provisions hereof, and shall be subject to all provisions of this title. (1960
Code)
5-1B-1: SEPARATE BUSINESS:
Separate licenses must be obtained for each branch, establishment or separate
place of business in which the business is conducted; except that the utility
services used in connection with and incidental to a business licensed under
the provisions of this chapter shall not be deemed to be separate places of
business or branch establishments. (1960 Code)
5-1B-2: TWO OR MORE BUSINESSES:
In the event that any person is conducting, managing or carrying on, at one
location, more than one business required to be licensed hereunder (or is
conducting 1 business which might be classified in 1 or more groups), the
license tax to be paid by such person shall be determined as follows:
   A.   Such person shall pay the highest license tax provided herein for any
of the businesses so conducted, and shall not pay any license tax for any other
of such several businesses;
   B.   For the purpose of this section, vending machines and games of skill
and science shall be treated as a separate business as to which a full and
separate license fee shall be paid unless such vending machines are operated by
an otherwise licensed person, who is the owner of the goods being sold by such
vending machines and which are operated only as an incident to another licensed
business. (1960 Code)
5-1B-3: NO LICENSE TRANSFERABLE:
No license issued pursuant to this chapter shall be transferable; provided,
that where a license is issued authorizing a person to transact and carry on a
business at a particular place, such license may, upon application therefor and
paying a fee of one dollar ($1.00), have the license amended to authorize the
transacting and carrying on of such business under said license at some other
location to which the business is or is to be moved. (1960 Code)
5-1B-4: UNEXPIRED LICENSE HERETOFORE ISSUED:
Where a license for revenue purposes has been issued to any business by the
city and the tax paid therefor under the provisions of any ordinance heretofore
enacted and the terms of such business license has not expired, then the
license tax prescribed for said business shall not be payable until the
expiration of the term of such unexpired license. (1960 Code)
5-1B-5: DUPLICATE LICENSE:
A duplicate license may be issued by the license collector to replace any
license previously issued hereunder which has been lost or destroyed, upon the
license filing an affidavit attesting to such fact, and at the time of filing
such affidavit paying to the license collector a duplicate license fee of one
dollar ($1.00). (1960 Code)
5-1B-6: POSTING AND KEEPING LICENSES:
All licenses must be kept and posted in the following manner:
   A.   Any licensee transacting and carrying on business at a fixed place of
business in the city shall keep the license posted in a conspicuous place upon
the premises where such business is carried on;
   B.   Any licensee transacting and carrying on business but not operating at
a fixed place of business in the city shall keep the license upon his person at
all times while transacting and carrying on such business;
   C.   Any licensee to whom a license has been issued for the operation of a
wheeled vehicle shall be issued by the license collector, in addition to the
license certificate, a paper or metal license certificate and said certificate
shall at all times during the effective dates thereof be affixed to the
windshield or left front door in the case of a sticker, or on the rear of said
vehicle in a conspicuous place in case of a metal license plate. (1960 Code)
5-1B-7: APPLICATION; CONTENTS OF LICENSE:
Every person required to have a license under the provisions of this title,
shall make application for the same to the license collector of the city and
upon the payment of the prescribed tax the license collector shall issue to
such person a license which shall contain:
   A.   The name of the person to whom the license is issued;
   B.   The business license;
   C.   The place where such business is to be transacted and carried on;
   D.   The date of expiration of such license;
   E.   Such other information as may be necessary for the enforcement of the
provisions of this title. (1960 Code)
5-1B-8: RATES:
The amount of license fees to be paid to the city by any person engaged in or
carrying on any profession, trade, calling, occupation or business under the
provisions of this title, is hereby fixed and established as in article C of
this chapter. (1960 Code)
5-1B-9: AFFIDAVIT; FIRST LICENSE:
Initial licenses shall be issued according to the following conditions and
provisions:
   A.   In all cases where the amount of license to be paid by any person is
based upon the number of employees employed, it shall be the duty and
obligation of the applicant to file with the license collector simultaneously
with the filing of the application or as a part thereof, a written statement
showing the average number of individuals engaged, employed or used in the
conduct of such business during the six (6) month period immediately prior to
the filing of the application and such number of individuals shall determine
the license fee to be paid in accordance with the schedule herein provided;
   B.   In determining the number of employees for the purpose of fixing the
license tax due under this title, the employer shall take the number of
employees earning wages during pay periods ending the nearest fifteenth day of
each month as shown by form DE3 of the state of California, department of
employment, or other form which may hereafter be adopted for reporting payments
due under the unemployment insurance act for each month on the previous
calendar year, adding the same and dividing by twelve (12); if the employer has
been in business less than one year, he may use the average number of employees
as shown by said form for the last quarter. If the application of such formula
produces a fractional number of employees, the next lowest integer shall be
used;
   C.   If the application is for a new, previously unlicensed business, such
application or written statement shall estimate the number of individuals
proposed to be engaged, employed or used in the conduct of the business, with
which estimate shall be reconciled in accordance with the facts when the
succeeding annual renewal of the license certificate is applied for at which
time the license fee shall be adjusted accordingly;
   D.   Such statements or estimates shall not be conclusive upon the city or
upon any officer thereof as to the matters set forth therein, and the same
shall not prejudice the rights of the city to recover any amount that might be
ascertained to be due from such person, in addition to the amount shown by such
statement to be due in case such statements are found to be incorrect. The
correctness of all such statements shall be subject to verification by the
license collector of the city or his properly authorized deputies who are
hereby authorized and empowered to inspect and audit the books and records of
any and all persons licensed to carry on any trade, business, occupation or
calling in this title specified; except utilities operating under the
jurisdiction of the public utilities commission of the state of California;
   E.   If any person fails to file any required statement within the
prescribed time, the license collector shall assess the maximum license rate
prescribed for the profession, trade, calling or occupation carried on by such
person as hereinabove provided by giving written notice of the amount assessed
by serving it personally or by depositing it in a United States post office,
postage prepaid, addressed to the person so assessed, at his last known
address. Such person may, within ten (10) days after the mailing or serving of
such notice, make application in writing to the license collector for a
hearing, on the amount of the license tax. If such application is not made
within the time prescribed, the assessment shall become final, and if such
application is made within the time prescribed the license collector shall
cause the matter to be set for hearing before the city council. The city
council shall consider all evidence produced and the amount of the license tax
so determined by the city council shall be the amount due and payable for such
license;
   F.   The license collector shall not issue to any such person another
license for the same or any other business until such person shall have
furnished to him the written statements and/or paid the license tax as herein
required. (1960 Code)
5-1B-10: NUMBERED PLATES:
The license collector shall issue numbered plates or stickers to each licensee
who is issued a license for conducting business by vehicle as defined herein,
one plate for each vehicle so used, which plate shall be placed conspicuously
on the vehicle. No person shall place any such plate or sticker on a vehicle
not used by the licensee in such business, or drive or operate a vehicle
engaged in any such business upon which no plate or sticker is placed, except
as provided. (1960 Code)
5-1B-11: DATE OF LICENSES:
Annual licenses shall date from January 1 of each year; quarterly licenses
shall date from January 1, April 1, July 1 and October 1, respectively; monthly
licenses shall date from the first day of the calendar month for which they are
issued; daily or weekly licenses shall be due and payable each day or week in
advance. Renewal licenses shall become delinquent on or after the due date and
new licenses become delinquent upon the date of commencement of the operation
of business. (1960 Code)
5-1B-12: HOW AND WHEN PAYABLE; PRORATION:
All annual license fees, under the provisions of this chapter, shall be due and
payable in lawful money of the United States in advance on January 1 of each
year. Any person doing business for less than the full year and for which
business an annual license fee is provided in this chapter, shall be required
to pay the amount of the license fee for a full year, except that the fee for
any such license issued within the second quarter, third quarter or fourth
quarter of any year for the remainder of such calendar year shall be seventy
five percent (75%), fifty percent (50%) and twenty five percent (25%),
respectively, of the annual license fee prescribed for such business.
Except as otherwise herein provided, license fees, other than annual, required
hereunder, shall not be prorated and shall be due and payable in advance in
lawful money of the United States as follows:
   A.   Quarterly license fees on January 1, April 1, July 1 and October 1 of
each year;
   B.   Monthly license fees on the first day of each and every calendar month;
   C.   Weekly license fees on Monday of each week;
   D.   Daily license fees each day in advance.
No greater or less license fee or amount of money shall be charged or received
than is provided for in this title and no license shall be issued or authorized
for any period of time other than or different from that provided in this
title. (1960 Code)
5-1B-13: IDENTIFICATION CARDS REQUIRED:
Concurrently with the issuance of a license for any mechanical amusement device
which furnishes or may be operated as a game, contest or amusement, or any
vending machine, weighing machine, or machine or device furnishing astrological
readings, foot-ease service, automatic shoeshining, automatic instrumental or
phonographic music, the license collector shall issue and furnish an
identification card for each such device or machine so licensed. Such
identification card shall be and remain attached to said device or machine at
all times. A change in the particular device or machine at the place of
business specified on the license may be made at the option of the owner or
operator thereof at any time during the period designated in said license where
such change is the substitution of a device or machine of the same type and the
owner or operator thereof shall notify the license collector of such change.
(1960 Code)
5-1B-14: UNEXPIRED LICENSES HERETOFORE ISSUED:
Where a license has been issued by the city for any business and the tax fee
paid therefor under the provisions of any ordinance heretofore enacted and the
term of such license has not expired then the license fee prescribed for said
business by this title shall not be payable until the expiration of the term of
such unexpired license. (1960 Code)
5-1B-15: REFUNDS:
Upon denial of a license application, the license collector shall refund all
business license fees collected, except as follows: a) any fees collected for
the purposes of a background investigation shall be forfeited to the city to
cover costs incurred due to such investigation; and b) any costs incurred by
the city in connection with ascertaining zoning, health and other compliances
shall be deducted from such refund and shall be forfeited to the city.
However, upon revocation of a license, no part of the license fee collected
shall be returned but shall be forfeited to the city. When the license of any
person is revoked for any cause, no new or other license shall be granted to
such person within six (6) months from the date of such revocation. (1960 Code;
amd. Ord. 97-802; Ord. 00-841)
5-1B-16: REVOCATION OF LICENSES:
Any license issued under this chapter is subject to revocation for cause in the
manner provided as follows:
   A.   Complaints against any licensee seeking a revocation of license must be
in writing and must set forth one or more of the grounds hereinafter
enumerated, which shall constitute the basis for the revocation of the license
issued hereunder.
   B.   A written report of the sheriff or any officer or employee of the city
disclosing asserted violations of law or ordinance by the licensee shall be
deemed a complaint within the meaning of this section. All complaints must be
verified unless made by officers or employees in their official capacity.
   C.   The following are grounds which shall constitute the basis for the
revocation of licenses:
      1.   When the continuance of the operations of the licensee under such
license shall be contrary to the public health, safety, peace, welfare or
morals.
      2.   The violation of any of the penal provisions of this title.
      3.   The misrepresentation of a material fact by any applicant in
obtaining a license hereunder.
      4.   The plea, verdict or judgment of guilty to any public offense
involving moral turpitude charged against the licensee. (1960 Code)
5-1B-17: LICENSE REVOCATION HEARING:
Complaints may be filed with the city council and upon the filing thereof the
city council, after investigation, if it deems such complaint to warrant
further consideration, must provide for a public hearing thereon and determine
whether or not such license should be revoked. (1960 Code)
5-1B-18: WRITTEN NOTICE:
The city council shall cause written notice of the time and place of the
hearing of the complaint or report to be given to the complaining part as well
as to the licensee. The hearing shall be set for a date not less than five (5)
days subsequent to the mailing of the notice. The notice shall be sent to the
licensee by registered mail, addressed to said licensee at this address as
shown on the license records of the city, and enclosed with such notice shall
be a copy of the complaint or report filed with the city council. All hearings
before the city council shall be conducted informally and the council shall not
be bound by any statutory rules of evidence or procedure, but shall make
inquiry in such manner as it deems advisable to protect the rights of the
parties and to carry out the purposes of this chapter.
A licensee shall be entitled to have witnesses subpoenaed and to appear and
give testimony with respect to the charges made against him. The decision of
the city council after holding of such hearing shall be final and conclusive
and shall be binding upon all parties concerned. If the city council shall
order the revocation of any license issued hereunder, no person whose license
has been revoked shall thereafter conduct such business in the city. (1960
Code)
5-1B-19: USE OF CRIMINAL HISTORY INFORMATION:
   A.   The following officers are hereby authorized to access and utilize
criminal history record information when it is required for them to fulfill
employment, certification, licensing duties or any other investigative process
called for in this code as hereinafter specified in section
5-1B-20 of this article: city manager, city clerk, public services director,
community development director, financial services director, city attorney and
code enforcement officer.
   B.   The Los Angeles County sheriff's department shall, upon the request of
the city council or other authorized city officials as listed in section
5-1B-20 of this article or elsewhere in this code, investigate and report all
facts or evidence bearing upon the place where any proposed business is to be
located, and the character, reputation and moral fitness of those who will be
in charge thereof. (1960 Code; amd. Ord. 97-802)
5-1B-20: CONVICTION DISQUALIFICATION:
Conviction (including pleas of guilty and nolo contendere) of a felony shall be
prima facie disqualification of an applicant for municipal employment or an
applicant for any business requiring a permit from the city council.
An applicant who is thus prima facie disqualified for employment, licensing or
permit, may make an appeal in writing to the employing, licensing or certifying
agency or officer. The agency or officer shall consider the following factors
and shall render a decision on whether the appeal should be upheld, which
decision shall be final and conclusive:
   A.   The classification to which the person is applying or which the person
is employed, including its sensitivity;
   B.   The nature and seriousness of the conduct;
   C.   The circumstances surrounding the conduct;
   D.   The date of the conduct;
   E.   The age of the applicant at the time of the conduct;
   F.   Contributing social or environmental conditions;
   G.   The absence or presence of rehabilitation or efforts at rehabilitation.
(1960 Code; amd. Ord. 77-447)
5-1B-21: NO RIGHT TO APPEAL:
Notwithstanding the provisions of section
5-1B-20 of this article, an applicant for a peace officer or firefighter
positions shall be disqualified, without right of appeal, from employment if
the applicant shall have been convicted of a felony. (1960 Code)
5-1B-22: ADOPTING TITLE 7 OF THE LOS ANGELES COUNTY CODE:
Title 7 of the Los Angeles County business license code, being an ordinance
regulating and licensing business and other activities is hereby adopted to
provide regulations for certain businesses and standards for the issuance of
permits to the extent said title 7 is not inconsistent with this title. In the
event of conflict, this title shall prevail. (Ord. 86-593)
5-1B-23: PAYMENT OF CHARGES AND FEES:
Payment of all charges and fees, relating to an applicant for a business
license or renewal thereof, imposed under other provisions of this code
(specifically including all applicable fees required under section
6-2A-0 of this code) is hereby made a prerequisite to the issuance of any
business license or renewal thereof. (Ord. 95-785)
ARTICLE C. SCHEDULE OF RATES
SECTION:
5-1C-0: Definitions
5-1C-1: Classifications
5-1C-2: Rates
5-1C-0: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall be defined as set forth
herein:
   ADVERTISING BENCH: Any bench on or upon which any kind of advertising matter
is placed, maintained or displayed.
   ADVERTISING MATTER: Printed handbills, dodgers, booklets, cards in excess of
two and one-half inches by four inches (21/2" x 4"), and any other printed
advertising matter describing or calling attention to any product, business,
enterprise, person, firm or corporation for any purpose other than solely for
religious or political purposes, but excluding a newspaper.
   ADVERTISING VEHICLE: The business of operating upon the street any wheeled
vehicle equipped with music or a musical device, loudspeaker or other device
for attracting attention, or of operating any wheeled vehicle for advertising
purposes and to which wheeled vehicle there are attached signs, placards,
billboards or other advertising matter.
   APARTMENT HOUSE: Any building or portion thereof which is designed, built,
rented, leased, let or hired out to be occupied or which is occupied as the
home or residence of four (4) or more families living independently of each
other and doing their own cooking in said building, and shall include flats and
apartments.
   AUTOMOBILE FOR HIRE: Every automobile or motor propelled vehicle used for
the transportation of passengers for compensation over the streets and not over
a fixed or defined route, irrespective of whether the operations extend beyond
the boundary limits of the city, at rates for distance traveled, per mile, per
trip, for waiting time or otherwise. "Automobile for hire" shall include taxi
and taxicab.
   BENCH: Any seat, chair, bench or similar device located in or upon any
street or other public property for the use or accommodation of passerby or
persons awaiting transportation.
   BUNGALOW COURT: Four (4) or more separate or connected dwelling units on any
one parcel or contiguous parcels of land.
   BUSINESS BY VEHICLE: The business of running, driving or operating any
automobile, automobile truck, automobile tank wagon or any vehicle used for
transportation, selling, collection or delivery of goods or other personal
property of any kind from a vehicle, either as a principal business or in
connection with any other business; of soliciting for work, labor or services
to be performed upon the public street, in or from a vehicle, or to be
performed on goods or other personal property; or peddling goods; or soliciting
for work, labor or services on goods to be taken for such purpose to a plant or
establishment inside or outside the city limits.
The term shall be deemed to apply to the delivery of goods purchased by retail
merchants in the city at wholesale prices and delivered to said merchants in
said city at wholesale prices and delivered to said merchants in said city for
resale by them for use or consumption by the public, and shall apply to the
delivery of services to the businesses and professions listed in this chapter,
but shall not apply to persons operating such vehicles together with, and in
conjunction with, a fixed place of business within the city, for which such
business license fee is paid under the other provisions of this title.
The provisions of this title are not to be construed as imposing a tax upon
vehicles, but as a method of classification of businesses and distinguishing
between those maintaining a fixed place of business in the conduct of which
vehicles are used but who do not have a fixed place of business in the city.
   CLUB DANCE: Any dance held or conducted by a dancing club.
   CONTRACTOR: Any person who engages with the owner or lessee or other person
in possession of any lot or parcel of land or building, for the erection,
construction or repair of any building, or structure, or for the construction
or doing of any heating, air conditioning, automatic or other sprinkler system,
paving, wrecking, excavating, drainage, irrigation, electric signs, sign
devices, gas filled luminous tube signs or designs, brick laying, cement work,
sewer work, painting, paperhanging, tile work, carpenter work, glazing,
insulation, structural pest control, lathing plastering, roofing, sheet metal,
shingling, flooring, swimming pools, landscaping, fencing or interior
decorating, whether the same be by contract at a fixed price, or upon the cost
of materials and labor basis, or upon the basis of the cost of construction or
repair plus a percentage thereof.
   DANCING CLUB: Any club or association of persons which conducts dances other
than public dances for its members or bona fide guests more often than once per
month, at which a fee is charged either for admission to such dance or for
dancing therein, or at which any collection or donation of money is made or
received, or in which the amount of dues to be paid by each member is dependent
upon attendance at such dances by such member.
   DISSEMINATE: Means and includes the terms distribute, deposit, hand out,
pass out, give out, deliver and throw away, as well as causing or permitting
any of the foregoing.
   DRIVER: A person who drives or is in actual physical control of an
automobile for hire.
   INDEPENDENT SERVICE PROVIDER: An independent substation in another business
such as a hairdresser, real estate agent or other service or profession
occupying space in the premises of another licensee.
   INFORMAL ENTERTAINMENT: Random, unpaid, act, play, review, pantomime, scene,
song, dance act, song and dance act, poetry recitation, by not more than two
(2) persons at a time and must be secondary use to the establishment with no
alcohol being served at any time.
   KENNEL: Any place where four (4) or more dogs and cats, or four (4) or more
of either, are maintained at any one location.
   MAINTAIN: Means and includes, construct, erect, install, place and permit to
be.
   MANUFACTURER: Means and includes the process of making, preparing, altering,
repairing or finishing, in whole or in part, or to assemble, inspect, wrap or
package any articles or materials; the making or fashioning by working on or
combining material; the assembling of component parts.
   MEDICINE SHOW: Means and includes the using of any music, lecture,
entertainment or operation of other like scheme or plan to attract an audience
or crowd, and the selling or giving away to any person in such audience or
crowd any drug or medicine, or pretended medicament, or any surgical or medical
appliances or instrument.
   NEWSPAPER: Shall mean and be limited to a publication which has been and at
the time of its dissemination or distribution is admitted as second class
matter under applicable United States postal regulations, is a newspaper of
general circulation under the laws of the state, and at the time of its
dissemination or distribution maintains a bona fide list of paying subscribers
at regular published rates.
   NONADVERTISING BENCH: Any bench on or upon which no kind of advertising
matter is placed, maintained or displayed.
   OWNER: When used with reference to an automobile for hire, shall mean and
include any person other than a driver who or which owns, operates, controls or
directs the use of an automobile for hire.
   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS: Includes any person, except for sidewalk vendors
(as defined in Section 4-12-0) or mobile food vendors (as defined in Section 4-
13-0), who travels from place to place or house to house and makes
demonstrations of, or solicits, takes orders or canvasses for the sale of, or
who sells any goods, wares or merchandise, or things or articles of value of
any nature, kind or description.
   POULTRY AND ANIMAL BUSINESS: The business of owning or maintaining twenty
five (25) or more birds, fowl, poultry, rabbits or animals (other than horses),
and the offering to sell, trade or exchange for anything of value, any birds,
fowl, poultry, rabbits or animals (other than horses) or the offspring,
products or byproducts of any thereof. Every person who owns or maintains
twenty five (25) or more birds, fowl, poultry, rabbits or animals (other than
horses), and who sells, offers to sell, trades or exchanges for anything of
value, or who by any sign or other means of advertising offers to sell, trade
or exchange for anything of value, any birds, fowl, poultry, rabbits or animals
(other than horses) or the offspring, products or byproducts of any thereof,
shall conclusively be presumed to be conducting, managing and carrying on
business and subject to the provisions of this title.
   PREMISES: Means and includes every house, dwelling, building, structure,
enclosure, business establishment, lot, yard, location, place, alley, parkway,
sidewalk, street, public way and every vehicle.
   PRINTED: Means and includes the terms, mimeographed, lithographed,
handwritten, stereotyped, typewritten and painted.
   PRIVATE PATROL: The operation, maintenance or conduct of the business or
occupation of night watchman, night watch service or agency, private policeman,
police patrol service or any other occupation the purpose of which is to
afford, for hire or reward, additional police, guard, or fire protection in
addition to that furnished by the city.
   PROFESSION: Means and includes those occupations universally classified as
professions, as opposed to a business activity; a calling in which one
professes to have acquired some special knowledge used by way of instructing,
building and advising others or serving them in some calling, vocation or
employment, and which includes, but not by way of limitation, those professions
listed as such in the Business And Professions Code of the state of California
for which a testing requirement is imposed.
   PROFESSIONAL ENTERTAINMENT: A person or persons who engage in any act, play,
review, pantomime, scene, song, dance act, song and dance act, live band, or
poetry, for livelihood or gain in the presentation of entertainment and where
alcohol is being served.
   PUBLIC DANCE: A gathering of persons in or upon any premises where dancing
is participated in, either as the main purpose for such gathering or as an
incident to some other purpose, and to which premises the public is admitted.
   PUBLIC DANCE HALL: A place where dancing is conducted, whether for profit or
not for profit, and to which the public is admitted either with or without
charge, or at which the public is allowed to participate in the dancing either
with or without charge.
   RETAILER: Includes every seller who makes any retail sales or sales of
tangible personal property. A retail sale is any sale defined as such by the
sales and use tax laws of the state of California.
   SERVICE: Includes all business activities involving the providing of labor,
together with the furnishing of incidental materials in connection therewith;
i.e., labor performed in the interest and under the direction of others, except
as such business activity may be more specifically included in some other
category.
   SLAUGHTERHOUSE: A place where anyone slaughters more than three (3) fowl or
three (3) rabbits per day for other than the personal use of such person.
   WHEELED VEHICLE: Means and includes an automobile, truck, tank truck,
trailer, wagon, cart and any and all contrivances used or capable of being used
as a means of transportation of persons or property, that move or roll on one
or more wheels.
   WHOLESALER: Means and includes every seller who makes any sale or sales of
tangible personal property for resale. (1960 Code; amd. Ord. 92-714; Ord. 94-
770; Ord. 19-1035)
5-1C-1: CLASSIFICATIONS:
All persons engaged in or carrying on any profession, trade, calling,
occupation or business in or into the city of Temple City are hereby classified
in the following groups as follows:
   A.   Professional;
   B.   Retailers;
   C.   Wholesalers;
   D.   Manufacturers;
   E.   Services;
   F.   Contractors;
   G.   Business by vehicle;
   H.   Specialty businesses;
   I.   Home occupation;
   J.   Independent service provider;
   K.   Not otherwise classified. (1960 Code; amd. Ord. 92-714)
5-1C-2: RATES:
The rates applied to the business classifications set forth in section
5-1C-1 of this article shall be set and/or modified by resolution of the city
council. (1960 Code)
CHAPTER 2
BUSINESS PERMITS
ARTICLE A. PERMIT REQUIRED FOR CERTAIN BUSINESSES
SECTION:
5-2A-0: Permit Required For Certain Businesses
5-2A-1: Application
5-2A-2: Granting Or Refusal Of Permit
5-2A-3: Solicitors, Peddlers And Itinerant Vendors
5-2A-4: Posting
5-2A-5: Permit Fees
5-2A-6: Police Investigation
5-2A-7: Revocation, Suspension, Hearing, Notice
5-2A-8: Nontransferability
5-2A-9: Standard Conditions
5-2A-0: PERMIT REQUIRED FOR CERTAIN BUSINESSES:
No person shall operate, and no license shall be issued for, any of the
following businesses unless a prerequisite permit, if required, has first been
obtained as specifically provided for elsewhere in this code. Upon granting of
needed prerequisite permit, a license shall be issued pursuant to this chapter,
pursuant to the zoning code, and by council action, if applicable:
Auto wrecking and towing.
Baths.
Billiard rooms (public).
Bridal shops.
Business by vehicle, other than the following: gardening and house cleaning
services; private parcel delivery companies (including UPS and FedEx); taxi,
car-sharing, and transportation network companies (including Uber and Lyft);
and food and water delivery businesses (including Sysco, GrubHub, and
Sparkletts).
Carnival.
Circus, primary business:
   A.   Sideshow.
   B.   Exhibition.
Dances.
Entertainment.
Escort bureau.
Explosives.
Fireworks.
Fortune telling.
Games of skill.
Liquor stores.
"Massage business or establishment" as defined in section
5-2E-1 of this chapter.
Non-storefront, delivery-only medical cannabis retail businesses.
Pawnbroker.
Racetrack.
Rides - carnival/merry-go-round.
Rodeo.
Salvage dealer.
Secondhand dealer.
Shooting gallery.
Solicitor, peddlers, itinerant vendors.
Waste collector.
Waste disposal facility. (1960 Code; amd. Ord. 96-796; Ord. 97-802; Ord. 16-
1010; Ord. 20-1051; Ord. 25-1081 U)
5-2A-1: APPLICATION:
The application for any permit required by this chapter shall be filed with the
license collector, shall be signed and verified by the applicant and shall set
forth the following:
   A.   The name and address of the applicant.
   B.   The name and address of the persons by whom employed, if any.
   C.   The nature of the business for which a permit is requested.
   D.   The place where such business is to be conducted.
   E.   A brief description of the nature and amount of equipment to be used in
such business.
   F.   The personal description of the applicant.
   G.   Evidence of the identity of the applicant of such character as the city
council may require.
   H.   Fingerprints and thumbprints of the applicant. (1960 Code)
5-2A-2: GRANTING OR REFUSAL OF PERMIT:
The City Manager or the City Manager's designee may, after investigation of
said application and of said business proposed to be conducted, grant or refuse
to grant a permit. The City Manager or the City Manager's designee shall have
the right to refuse any such permit if it shall determine that the granting of
the same or the conduct of the business will be contrary to the preservation of
health, safety, morals or welfare of the city or its inhabitants. If such
permit is granted, the City Manager or the City Manager's designee may impose
such terms, conditions and restrictions upon the operation and conduct of such
business, not in conflict with any paramount law, as it may deem necessary or
expedient to protect the public peace, health, safety, morals or welfare of the
city or its inhabitants. Any applicant for such a permit shall be entitled to a
hearing thereon before the city council upon a request therefor. Any city
council person, the City Manager or the City Attorney may file with the city
clerk a request for review (RFR) of any decision made by the City Manager or
the City Manager's designee under Title 5, Chapter 2.
    A.   Timing: Such RFR must be filed within fourteen (14) days of the
decision by the City Manager or the City Manager's designee, as a no fee
filing, together with a statement that such RFR is not indicating support for
or opposition to such decision, but is filed because the filer believes that
such decision involves a matter of such interest, import, precedent or
significance that such decision should as a matter of policy and planning be
made by the city council.
   B.   Effect of RFR: Upon the timely filing of an RFR, the decision of the
City Manager or the City Manager's designee will be suspended until the RFR is
determined by the city council; and the city clerk will immediately notify the
council and applicant with regard thereto and set the matter for hearing before
the city council for final determination.
   C.   The procedures of an RFR will be the same as those for an appeal under
section 9-1C-5-G-6, 7, and 8 (Appeals). (1960 Code; amd. Ord. 96-796; Ord. 97-
802; Ord. 25-1081 U)
5-2A-3: SOLICITORS, PEDDLERS AND ITINERANT VENDORS:
   A.   Solicitation shall only take place between the hours of nine o'clock
(9:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) P.M.
   B.   Solicitation shall not be made at any house, apartment or other
dwelling in which is affixed a sign indicating "No Solicitors" or similar
indications that no solicitation contact is desired by the occupant thereof.
(1960 Code; amd. Ord. 91-695; Ord. 96-796; Ord. 97-802)
5-2A-4: POSTING:
Such permit shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises where the
business for which such permit is issued is conducted, and shall remain so
posted during the period the permit shall be in force. (1960 Code)
5-2A-5: PERMIT FEES:
Unless otherwise stated in this code, the fees for permits shall be set and/or
modified by resolution of the city council. (1960 Code)
5-2A-6: POLICE INVESTIGATION:
This classification is now covered under subsection
5-1B-19B of this title. (1960 Code; amd. Ord. 96-796; Ord. 97-802)
5-2A-7: REVOCATION, SUSPENSION, HEARING, NOTICE:
When the City Manager or the City Manager's designee shall issue any permit
under the terms of this chapter, the same may be revoked at any time thereafter
by said city council if said city council becomes satisfied that the conduct of
such business does or will in any manner endanger the public welfare or that
the same has been conducted in an illegal, improper or disorderly manner. Said
city council may revoke or suspend permits issued for any business where the
proprietor or person in charge thereof violates or permits any infraction of
any law of the state or any ordinance of the city. No permit for any business
shall be revoked or permanently suspended under the terms of this chapter
unless the permittee shall be adjudged guilty of a misdemeanor hereunder or
unless a notice and public hearing thereof be first given the permittee,
provided, however, that any such permit may be temporarily suspended without
such notice or hearing by the city council. (1960 Code; amd. Ord. 25-1081 U)
5-2A-8: NONTRANSFERABILITY:
No permit issued under this chapter shall be transferable except by the consent
of the city council. (1960 Code)
5-2A-9: STANDARD CONDITIONS:
Unless otherwise stated in this chapter, elsewhere in this code and the zoning
code if applicable, the conditions imposed upon an operation and conduct of
such business shall be set and/or modified by resolution of the city council.
(Ord. 97-807)
ARTICLE B. COMMERCIAL FILMING
SECTION:
5-2B-0: Definitions
5-2B-1: Permit Required
5-2B-2: Permit Fee
5-2B-3: Application
5-2B-4: Insurance
5-2B-5: Separate License
5-2B-6: Special Services
5-2B-7: Posting
5-2B-0: DEFINITIONS:
   CHARITABLE FILMS: Commercials, motion pictures, television programs,
videotapes or still photography produced by a nonprofit organization, which
qualifies under section 501(C)3 of the internal revenue code as a charitable
organization. No person directly or indirectly shall receive a profit from the
marketing or production of a charitable film.
   FILMING OR FILMING ACTIVITY: Means and includes all activity attendant to
staging or shooting motion pictures, television shows, videotapes, commercials
and still photography.
   STUDENT FILMS: Motion pictures, television programs, videotapes or still
photography made for the purpose of a school project. (1960 Code)
5-2B-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   No person shall use any public or private property, facility or
residence for the purpose of filming activity without first applying for and
receiving a permit as provided in this section.
   B.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to or affect reporters,
photographers or camera operators in the employ of a newspaper, news service or
similar entity engaged in covering newsworthy events, nor shall it apply to
filming solely for private, noncommercial use. Charitable films and student
films must obtain a permit and reimburse the city for reasonable cost of
personnel and equipment but are exempt from permit fees. (1960 Code)
5-2B-2: PERMIT FEE:
Permit fee shall be set by resolution of the city council. (1960 Code)
5-2B-3: APPLICATION:
   A.   The issuing authority shall be the city manager or designee.
   B.   All applicants will be required to complete a commercial filming
application which shall include information required by the state model film
permit application and such additional information the city manager may
require.
   C.   The city manager shall determine the number of fire, sheriff, county
road services and other personnel necessary to ensure that the filming activity
does not endanger the health and safety of persons or property in the area of
the filming location, to minimize the disruption to businesses of residents in
the area, and to minimize traffic congestion.
   D.   Prior to issuance of the permit, the applicant shall be requested to
consult with neighboring businesses and/or residents and submit with the
application suitable evidence showing that such businesses or residents do not
object to the proposed filming activity.
   E.   Applications shall be submitted a minimum of three (3) working days
before the proposed filming activity. However, processing may be increased up
to ten (10) days by the city manager, where such activity will interfere with
traffic, requires road closures or multiple day traffic control, involves
potential public safety hazards or requires special assistance by the city.
   F.   Upon submission of a completed application, the permit fee, the
required deposits and the certificate of insurance, and upon the determining
that the proposed filming activity will not unduly disrupt neighboring business
and/or residents, the city manager shall issue the permit. In all cases,
issuance of a permit shall depend upon the availability of sheriff, fire and
other necessary personnel and equipment. Conditions may be attached to a permit
to ensure health and safety of persons, disruption of neighboring businesses
and residents and traffic congestion.
   G.   Written permit application may be filed in person, by mail or by
facsimile machine. Where it is impractical to submit a written permit
application, an oral permit application may be made by telephone during regular
city hall business hours provided that appropriate documents and signatures be
obtained by the city two (2) days prior to filming. (1960 Code)
5-2B-4: INSURANCE:
A certificate of insurance for comprehensive and general liability covering the
entire period of the permit, naming the city of Temple City and its employees
as additionally insured shall accompany the application. The amount of the
insurance shall be set by the city manager dependent upon the potential
liability but shall not be less than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00).
Permittee waives all claims against the city of Temple City, its officers,
agents and employees, for fees and damage caused by, arising out of, or in any
way connected with the exercise of the permit. (1960 Code)
5-2B-5: SEPARATE LICENSE:
Upon approval of commercial filming permit, applicant shall be issued a
separate temporary business license. The fee shall be set by resolution of the
city council. (1960 Code)
5-2B-6: SPECIAL SERVICES:
The city shall have the right to require and the applicant shall have the right
to request special sheriff, fire, road or other administrative services. The
applicant will be billed directly for all special services provided by the
city. The fee for special services will be the cost incurred by the city for
providing special services. City may require a deposit applicable to these
costs. (1960 Code)
5-2B-7: POSTING:
Each applicant will be required to post all of the properties which are
immediately adjacent to the filming location prior to the start of filming. The
posting shall include a general description of the filming activity that will
take place and the dates and times the filming activity is scheduled. (1960
Code)
ARTICLE C. PUMPKIN AND CHRISTMAS TREE SALES
SECTION:
5-2C-0: Permit Required
5-2C-1: Qualification Of Permittees
5-2C-2: Permit Application Filing
5-2C-3: Permit Application Contents
5-2C-4: Separate License
5-2C-5: Operation Of Lots
5-2C-6: Signs
5-2C-0: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person shall conduct pumpkin or Christmas tree sales without first applying
for and receiving a permit as provided in this section. (Ord. 96-794)
5-2C-1: QUALIFICATION OF PERMITTEES:
   A.   Every pumpkin sales lot shall submit to the city by March 1 of each
year and Christmas tree sales lot by April 1, a copy of the state board of
equalization's state, local and district sales and use tax return from the
operation of the pumpkin or Christmas tree lot for the prior year. Failure to
comply with this section shall result in the following:
      1.   Unable to get a permit for the following year; and
      2.   The deposit placed with the city shall be held until such time the
report is filed but no longer than one year from the due date, at which time
the deposit is thereby forfeited to the city. (Ord. 96-794)
5-2C-2: PERMIT APPLICATION FILING:
   A.   The issuing authority shall be the city manager or designee.
   B.   All applicants will be required to complete a pumpkin sales or
Christmas tree sales application.
   C.   Pumpkin sales applications shall be submitted by September 30 and
Christmas tree sales applications shall be submitted by November 30.
   D.   A separate permit shall be required for each location.
   E.   Each application shall be accompanied by a nonrefundable permit fee as
set and/or modified by resolution of the city council.
   F.   A refundable deposit of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) shall be
required for each location. Such deposit shall be refunded to the permittee
upon compliance with all code provisions. Locations shall be cleared of all
debris and restored to their original condition by November 5 for pumpkin lots
and December 31 for Christmas tree lots. Such deposit shall be forfeited and
retained by the city in the event of noncompliance.
   G.   Each application shall be accompanied by a certificate of insurance in
the amount of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) public liability with an
endorsement attached to the policy designating the city of Temple City as
additional insured. The insurance company providing the coverage must be
"admitted" in the state of California.
   H.   Each application shall include a diagram showing storage, display area,
sales office and available parking.
   I.   Each application shall contain a plan for the proposed signage for
review and approval by the city's planning department.
   J.   Each application shall include written permission from property owner
of proposed lot site. (Ord. 96-794)
5-2C-3: PERMIT APPLICATION CONTENTS:
Each such application shall show the following:
   A.   Name and address of applicant.
   B.   The location where the applicant will sell pumpkins or Christmas trees.
   C.   The applicant's state board of equalization sales tax permit number.
(Ord. 96-794)
5-2C-4: SEPARATE LICENSE:
Upon approval of pumpkin or Christmas tree sales permit, applicant shall be
issued a separate temporary business license. The fee shall be set by
resolution of the city council. (Ord. 96-794)
5-2C-5: OPERATION OF LOTS:
The following regulations shall be complied with in the operation of pumpkin or
Christmas tree lots:
   A.   "NO SMOKING" signs shall be prominently displayed both inside and
outside the location.
   B.   Strict adherence to the fire prevention bureau inspection guide as
outlined below or as modified at any given time:
      1.   Tents shall not be used for the purpose of storage, display or uses
requiring the public to enter the same. However, flameproofed canopies without
sides will be permitted.
      2.   All electrical wiring shall be installed and approved under permit
of the Los Angeles County division of building and safety.
      3.   All heating appliances must be of an approved type.
      4.   First aid firefighting appliances shall be provided, as required by
the fire prevention bureau.
      5.   Spray painting with flammable liquids shall be permitted only in
approved locations; provided trees painted are only retailed on the same lot.
      6.   Storage or handling flammable liquids shall conform to requirements
of the county fire prevention code.
      7.   No open burning will be permitted on any lot.
      8.   The storage and display of pumpkins or trees, decorations and
similar material shall be in such a manner as to prevent the creation of any
undue fire or life hazard to the public, adjacent building or property.
   C.   All weeds and combustible material shall be cleared from the lot
location. No rubbish shall be allowed to accumulate in or around any lot, nor
shall a fire nuisance be permitted to exist.
   D.   All stands must be equipped with at least one fire extinguisher, type
2A, for each exit in the stand, which fire extinguishers must be approved as to
efficiency and safety by the fire department.
   E.   No pumpkin lot shall commence sales before October 1 of any year and no
Christmas tree lot shall commence sales before December 1. Each pumpkin sales
lot shall be cleaned up to the satisfaction of the city by November 5. Each
Christmas tree sales lot shall be cleaned up to the satisfaction of the city by
December 31. (Ord. 96-794)
5-2C-6: SIGNS:
Each lot where pumpkins or Christmas trees are sold may have no more than two
(2) banners and one freestanding sign. The maximum total surface area of all
banners shall not exceed thirty two (32) square feet. The surface area of the
freestanding sign shall not exceed thirty two (32) square feet per face. No
signs shall be installed prior to the issuance of the business license and not
more than forty five (45) days prior to the required date of the sign's
removal. All signs for pumpkin sales location shall be removed on or before
November 5 of the year in which it was installed. All signs for Christmas tree
sales locations shall be removed on or before December 31 of the year in which
it was installed. (Ord. 96-794)
ARTICLE D. TOBACCO RETAILER PERMIT
SECTION:
5-2D-0: Title
5-2D-1: Purpose
5-2D-2: Definitions
5-2D-3: Tobacco Retailer Permit Required
5-2D-4: Limits On Eligibility For A Tobacco Retailer Permit
5-2D-5: Tobacco Retailer Permit Application Procedure
5-2D-6: Issuance Of Tobacco Retailer Permit
5-2D-7: Term And Renewal
5-2D-8: Permits Nontransferable
5-2D-9: Permit Conveys A Limited, Conditional Privilege
5-2D-10: Operating Requirements
5-2D-11: Compliance Monitoring And Enforcement
5-2D-12: Suspension And Revocation Of Tobacco Retailer Permit; Imposition Of
Administrative Fine
5-2D-13: Appeal Of Director's Determination
5-2D-14: New Permit After Revocation
5-2D-15: Violations
5-2D-16: Severability
5-2D-0: TITLE:
This article may be referred to as the TOBACCO RETAILER PERMIT ORDINANCE of the
city of Temple City. (Ord. 12-965)
5-2D-1: PURPOSE:
In enacting this article, it is the intent of the city council to encourage
responsible tobacco retailing and to discourage violations of tobacco related
laws, especially those that discourage the sale or distribution of tobacco and
nicotine products to minors. There is no intent, however, to expand or reduce
the degree to which the acts regulated by federal or state law are criminally
proscribed or to alter the penalties provided therein. (Ord. 12-965)
5-2D-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases, whenever used in this article, shall have the
meanings defined in this section unless the context clearly requires otherwise:
   ARM'S LENGTH TRANSACTION: A sale in good faith and for valuable
consideration that reflects the fair market value in the open market between
two (2) informed and willing parties, neither of which is under any compulsion
to participate in the transaction. A sale between relatives, related companies
or partners, or a sale for which a significant purpose is avoiding the effect
of the violations of this article is not an arm's length transaction.
   DEPARTMENT: The community development department, and any other agency or
person tasked by the city manager of the city with enforcement of this article.
   DIRECTOR: The community development director of the city and any other
person tasked by the city manager of the city with enforcement of this article.
   PERMITTEE: Any tobacco retailer or proprietor thereof holding a permit
issued by the city pursuant to the provisions of this article.
   PERSON: Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, association, joint
stock company, corporation, or combination of the above in whatever form or
character.
   PROPRIETOR: A person with an ownership or managerial interest in a business.
An ownership interest shall be deemed to exist when a person has a ten percent
(10%) or greater interest in the stock, assets, or income of a business other
than the sole interest of security for debt. A managerial interest shall be
deemed to exist when a person can or does have or share ultimate control over
the day to day operations of a business.
   SELF-SERVICE DISPLAY: The open display or storage of tobacco products or
tobacco paraphernalia in a manner that is physically accessible in any way to
the general public without the assistance of the retailer or employee of the
retailer and a direct person to person transfer between the purchaser and the
retailer or employee of the retailer. A vending machine is a form of self-
service display.
   SMOKING: Possessing a lighted tobacco product, lighted tobacco
paraphernalia, or any other lighted weed or plant (including a lighted pipe,
cigar, hookah pipe, or cigarette of any kind) and means the lighting of a
tobacco product, tobacco paraphernalia, or any other weed or plant (including a
pipe, cigar, hookah pipe, or cigarette of any kind).
   TOBACCO PARAPHERNALIA: Cigarette papers or wrappers, pipes, holders of
smoking materials of all types, cigarette rolling machines, and any other item
designed for the smoking, preparation, storing, or consumption of tobacco
products.
   TOBACCO PRODUCT: Any substance containing tobacco leaf, including, but not
limited to, cigarettes, cigars, pipe tobacco, hookah tobacco, snuff, chewing
tobacco, dipping tobacco, snus, bidis, or any other preparation of tobacco; and
any product or formulation of matter containing biologically active amounts of
nicotine that is manufactured, sold, offered for sale, or otherwise distributed
with the expectation that the product or matter will be introduced into the
human body, but does not include any cessation product specifically approved by
the United States food and drug administration for use in treating nicotine or
tobacco dependence.
   TOBACCO RETAILER: Any person who sells, offers for sale, or does or offers
to exchange for any form of consideration, tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco
paraphernalia.
   TOBACCO RETAILER PERMIT: A permit issued by the city authorizing a
proprietor to engage in tobacco retailing.
   TOBACCO RETAILING: The doing of any of the activities mentioned in the
definition of "tobacco retailer". This definition is without regard to the
quantity of tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco paraphernalia sold, offered
for sale, exchanged, or offered for exchange. (Ord. 12-965)
5-2D-3: TOBACCO RETAILER PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor for any person to act as a
tobacco retailer in the city without first obtaining and maintaining a valid
tobacco retailer's permit pursuant to this article for each location at which
that activity is to occur.
      1.   Except where noted otherwise in this article, notwithstanding any
other provisions of this code, the issuance, suspension, and revocation of a
tobacco retailer permit, and all related procedures, shall be governed solely
by this article. (Ord. 12-965)
5-2D-4: LIMITS ON ELIGIBILITY FOR A TOBACCO RETAILER PERMIT:
   A.   No tobacco retailer permit may issue to authorize tobacco retailing at
other than a fixed location. Peripatetic tobacco retailing, tobacco retailing
by persons on foot or from vehicles is explicitly prohibited.
   B.   No tobacco retailer permit may be issued to authorize tobacco retailing
at any location that violates any provision of the Temple City zoning code.
(Ord. 12-965)
5-2D-5: TOBACCO RETAILER PERMIT APPLICATION PROCEDURE:
   A.   Any person seeking a tobacco retailer permit shall submit a completed
application, on a city approved form, to the department. Application for a
tobacco retailer permit shall be submitted in the name of each proprietor
proposing to conduct retail tobacco sales and shall be signed by each
proprietor or an authorized agent thereof. Said application shall contain the
following information:
      1.   The name, address, and telephone number of each proprietor of the
business seeking a permit.
      2.   The business name, address, and telephone number of the single,
fixed location for which a permit is sought.
      3.   A single name and mailing address authorized by each proprietor to
receive all communications and notices (hereinafter, "authorized agent")
required by, authorized by, or convenient to the enforcement of this article.
If an authorized agent is not supplied, each proprietor shall be understood to
consent to the provision of notice at the business address specified in
subsection A2 of this section.
      4.   Proof that the location for which a tobacco retailer permit is
sought has been issued a valid state tobacco retailer's license by the
California board of equalization.
      5.   Whether any proprietor or any agent of the proprietor has been
issued a permit pursuant to this article that is or was at any time suspended
or revoked, and, if so, the dates of the suspension period or the date of
revocation.
      6.   Whether any proprietor or any agent of the proprietor has admitted
violating or has been determined to have violated any provision of this article
or any state or federal tobacco related law, and, if so, the dates of all such
violations within the preceding five (5) years.
      7.   Such other information as the department deems necessary for the
administration or enforcement of this article as specified on the application
form required by this section.
   B.   No application for a tobacco retailer permit shall be accepted by the
city unless accompanied by payment of an annual fee in an amount established by
resolution of the city council.
   C.   A permittee shall inform the department in writing of any change in the
information submitted on an application for a tobacco retailer permit within
ten (10) business days of a change.
   D.   All information specified in an application pursuant to this section
shall be subject to disclosure under the California public records act 1
or any other applicable law, subject to the laws' exemptions. (Ord. 12-965)
 
Notes
1 1. GOV § 6250 et seq.
5-2D-6: ISSUANCE OF TOBACCO RETAILER PERMIT:
   A.   Upon the receipt of both a completed application for a tobacco retailer
permit and the corresponding permit fee, the department shall issue a permit
unless substantial evidence demonstrates that one or more of the following
bases for denial exists:
      1.   The information presented in the application is inaccurate or false.
Intentionally supplying inaccurate or false information shall be a violation of
this article.
      2.   The application seeks authorization for tobacco retailing at a
location for which this article prohibits issuance of tobacco retailer permit.
However, this subsection A2 shall not constitute a basis for denial of a permit
if the applicant provides the city with documentation demonstrating by clear
and convincing evidence that the applicant has acquired or is acquiring the
location or business in an arm's length transaction.
      3.   The application seeks authorization for tobacco retailing for a
proprietor to whom this article prohibits a permit to be issued.
      4.   The applicant or proprietor of the proposed tobacco retailer has had
a tobacco retailer permit revoked within the preceding twelve (12) months.
      5.   The application seeks authorization for tobacco retailing that is
prohibited pursuant to this article, that is unlawful pursuant to this code
(including, without limitation, the zoning code and business license
regulations), or that is unlawful pursuant to any other law.
   B.   Any applicant aggrieved by a decision denying a tobacco retailer permit
may appeal the decision in the same manner as the appeal of a suspension or
revocation pursuant to the provisions of subsection
5-2D-12D and section
5-2D-13 of this article. (Ord. 12-965)
5-2D-7: TERM AND RENEWAL:
   A.   Term: A permit issued pursuant to this article shall be valid for one
year, unless the permit is revoked earlier in accordance with the provisions of
this article.
   B.   Renewal Of Permit: Each tobacco retailer who seeks to renew a tobacco
retailer permit shall submit a renewal application on a city approved form and
tender the annual permit fee to the department no later than thirty (30)
calendar days prior to the expiration of the permit. Any tobacco retailer
permit that is not timely renewed shall expire and become null and void at the
end of its term. (Ord. 12-965)
5-2D-8: PERMITS NONTRANSFERABLE:
   A.   A permit holder shall not operate under a name, or conduct business
under a designation, not specified on the permit.
   B.   A tobacco retailer permit may not be transferred from one person to
another or from one location to another. A change in proprietor, business name,
or location, or a change in any other information from that which is shown on
the permit application shall render the permit null and void, and shall require
the permit holder to obtain a new tobacco retailer permit in accordance with
the provisions of this article.
   C.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, prior violations
at a location shall continue to be counted against a location and permit
ineligibility periods shall continue to apply to a location unless:
      1.   The location has been fully transferred to a new proprietor or fully
transferred to entirely new proprietors; and
      2.   The new proprietor(s) provide(s) the city with clear and convincing
evidence that the new proprietor(s) has/have acquired or is acquiring the
location in an arm's length transaction. (Ord. 12-965)
5-2D-9: PERMIT CONVEYS A LIMITED, CONDITIONAL PRIVILEGE:
Nothing in this article shall be construed to grant any person obtaining and
maintaining a tobacco retailer permit any status or right other than the
limited conditional privilege to act as a tobacco retailer at the location in
the city identified on the face of the permit. Nothing in this article shall be
construed to render inapplicable, supersede, or apply in lieu of, any other
provision of applicable law, including, but not limited to, any provision of
this code, including, without limitation, title 3, chapter 2, article C,
"Secondhand Smoke Control", and title 9, "Zoning Regulations", of this code and
any condition or limitation on smoking in an enclosed place of employment
pursuant to California Labor Code section 6404.5. For example, obtaining a
tobacco retailer registration does not make the retailer a "retail or wholesale
tobacco shop" for the purposes of California Labor Code section 6404.5. (Ord.
12-965)
5-2D-10: OPERATING REQUIREMENTS:
The following applicable operating requirements of this section shall be deemed
conditions of any tobacco retailer permit issued pursuant to the provisions of
this article, and failure to comply with every such requirement shall be
grounds for suspension, revocation, and/or the imposition of administrative
fines in accordance with section
5-2D-12 of this article.
   A.   Knowledge Of Applicable Laws: It is the responsibility of each
permittee and proprietor to be informed of the laws applicable to tobacco
retailing, including those laws affecting the issuance of a tobacco retailer
permit. No person may rely on the issuance of a permit as a determination by
the city that the proprietor has complied with all laws applicable to tobacco
retailing. A permit issued contrary to this article, contrary to any other law,
or on the basis of false or misleading information supplied by a proprietor
shall be revoked pursuant to section
5-2D-12 of this article. Nothing in this article shall be construed to vest in
any person obtaining and maintaining a tobacco retailer permit any status or
right to act as a tobacco retailer in contravention of any provision of law.
   B.   Lawful Business Operation: In the course of tobacco retailing or in the
operation of the business or maintenance of the location for which a tobacco
retailer permit has been issued, it shall be a violation of this article for a
permittee, or any of the permittee's agents or employees, to violate any local,
state, or federal law applicable to tobacco products, tobacco paraphernalia, or
tobacco retailing.
   C.   Display Of Permit: Each tobacco retailer permit shall be prominently
displayed in a publicly visible location at the permitted location.
   D.   Retail Sales To Persons Under Eighteen Prohibited: No person engaged in
tobacco retailing shall sell or offer to sell, give or offer to give, or
transfer or offer to transfer any tobacco product or tobacco paraphernalia to
any person who is under the legal age of eighteen (18) years.
   E.   Positive Identification Required: No person engaged in tobacco
retailing shall sell or offer to sell, give or offer to give, or transfer or
offer to transfer any tobacco product or tobacco paraphernalia to another
person who appears to be under the age of thirty (30) years without first
examining the identification of the recipient to confirm that the recipient is
at least the minimum age under state law to purchase and possess the tobacco
product or tobacco paraphernalia. The permittee or the permittee's agent or
employee shall refuse the sale or transfer of any tobacco product or tobacco
paraphernalia to any person who appears to be under the age of thirty (30)
years, who fails to present valid, legal photo identification prior to the sale
or transfer.
   F.   Minimum Age For Persons Selling Tobacco: No person who is younger than
the minimum age established by state law for the purchase or possession of
tobacco products shall engage in tobacco retailing.
   G.   Self-Service Displays Prohibited: Tobacco retailing by means of a self-
service display is prohibited.
   H.   Compliance With State Mandated Sign Requirements: Tobacco retailers
shall post and maintain all signage required by the California Labor Code,
California Business And Professions Code, California Penal Code, and any other
applicable federal, state, or local law.
   I.   False And Misleading Advertising Prohibited: A tobacco retailer or
proprietor without a current and valid tobacco retailer registration,
including, but not limited to, a tobacco retailer whose permit is suspended or
has been revoked:
      1.   Shall keep all tobacco products and tobacco paraphernalia out of
public view. The public display of tobacco products or tobacco paraphernalia in
violation of this provision shall constitute tobacco retailing without a permit
under section
5-2D-3 of this article; and
      2.   Shall not display any advertisement relating to tobacco products or
tobacco paraphernalia that promotes the sale or distribution of such products
from the tobacco retailer's location or that could lead a reasonable consumer
to believe that such products can be obtained at that location. (Ord. 12-965)
5-2D-11: COMPLIANCE MONITORING AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Compliance with this article shall be monitored by the Los Angeles
County sheriff's department, the public safety division and code enforcement
personnel, the community development department, and permit investigators
(hereinafter, collectively, "enforcement officers"). The city manager may
designate any number of additional persons to monitor compliance with this
article.
   B.   Enforcement officers should check the compliance of each tobacco
retailer at least three (3) times per twelve (12) month period. Enforcement
officers may check the compliance of tobacco retailers previously found to be
in compliance with this article a fewer number of times so that enforcement
officers may check the compliance of new permittees and tobacco retailers
previously found in violation of this article more frequently. Nothing in this
subsection shall create a right of action in any permittee or other person
against the city or its agents.
   C.   Compliance checks shall be conducted so as to allow enforcement
officers to determine, at a minimum, if a tobacco retailer is complying with
laws regulating youth access to tobacco. Enforcement officers may also conduct
compliance checks to determine compliance with other laws applicable to tobacco
retailing.
   D.   Enforcement officers shall have the right to enter, free of charge or
restriction, at any time, any place of business for which a permit is required
by this article, and to demand the exhibition of such permit for the current
term by any person engaged or employed in the transaction of such business.
   E.   The Los Angeles County sheriff's department and/or the city manager (or
designee thereof) may promulgate and adopt policies, procedures, and/or
guidelines for the participation of persons under the age of eighteen (18) in
compliance checks pursuant to this article (hereinafter, "youth decoy").
   F.   The city shall not enforce any law establishing a minimum age for
tobacco purchases or possession against a youth decoy if the potential
violation occurs when:
      1.   The youth decoy is participating in a compliance check supervised by
a peace officer or enforcement officer;
      2.   The youth decoy is acting as an agent of an enforcement officer;
      3.   The youth decoy is participating in a compliance check funded in
part, either directly or indirectly through subcontracting, by the city or the
California department of health services. (Ord. 12-965)
5-2D-12: SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION OF TOBACCO RETAILER PERMIT; IMPOSITION OF
ADMINISTRATIVE FINE:
   A.   Suspension Or Revocation; Administrative Fine: In addition to any other
penalty authorized by law, a tobacco retailer permit shall be suspended or
revoked and an administrative fine shall be assessed against the tobacco
retailer in accordance with the procedures set forth in this section if it is
determined that the permittee or his or her agent or employee has violated any
of the conditions of the permit imposed pursuant to this article or any other
local, state or federal law pertaining to the sale of tobacco products or
tobacco paraphernalia to persons under eighteen (18) years of age.
      1.   First Violation: Upon a determination by the department of a first
permit violation within a sixty (60) month period, the permit shall be
suspended for a period of thirty (30) calendar days and an administrative fine
in the amount of five hundred dollars ($500.00) (or as otherwise set by
resolution of the city council) shall be assessed against the tobacco retailer.
The administrative fine shall be due and payable in full at the time that the
suspension becomes effective.
      2.   Second Violation: Upon a determination by the department of a second
permit violation within a sixty (60) month period, the permit shall be
suspended for a period of ninety (90) calendar days and an administrative fine
in the amount of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) (or as otherwise set by
resolution of the city council) shall be assessed against the tobacco retailer.
The administrative fine shall be due and payable in full at the time that the
suspension becomes effective.
      3.   Third Violation: Upon a determination by the department of a third
permit violation within a sixty (60) month period, the permit shall be revoked
and an administrative fine in the amount of two thousand five hundred dollars
($2,500.00) (or as otherwise set by resolution of the city council) shall be
assessed against the tobacco retailer. The administrative fine shall be due and
payable in full at the time that the revocation becomes effective.
   B.   Revocation Of Permit Wrongly Issued: A tobacco retailer permit shall be
revoked if the department determines that one or more of the bases for denial
of a permit under subsection
5-2D-6A of this article existed at the time the application was made or at any
time before the permit was issued. No administrative fine shall accompany a
revocation of a permit that had been wrongly issued.
   C.   Order Of Suspension/Revocation: Upon a determination by the department
that the permittee or his or her agent or employee has violated any of the
conditions of the permit imposed pursuant to this article, or any other local,
state or federal law pertaining to the sale of tobacco products or tobacco
paraphernalia to persons under the age of eighteen (18) years, the department
shall serve a written order of suspension/revocation of tobacco retailer permit
(hereinafter, "order of suspension/revocation") upon either: 1) the authorized
agent either via personal service or via first class mail, postage prepaid to
the address provided on the tobacco retailer permit application, or 2) if an
authorized agent was not listed on the tobacco retailer permit application, to
the permittee via personal service or via first class mail, postage prepaid to
the business address.
      1.   The order of suspension/revocation shall provide, at a minimum, the
following information:
         a.   The name of the permittee and tobacco retailer permit number;
         b.   A brief statement of the specific ground(s) for the suspension or
revocation;
         c.   If applicable, the term of the suspension;
         d.   If applicable, the amount of any administrative fine being
assessed;
         e.   If applicable, the dates and terms of any prior suspensions and
administrative fines within the preceding sixty (60) months;
         f.   The effective date of the suspension or revocation and the due
date of the administrative fine;
         g.   If applicable, the date on which a permittee may apply for a new
tobacco retailer permit after revocation;
         h.   The time frame and manner in which the permittee may contest the
order of suspension/revocation as set forth in subsection D1 of this section;
         i.   A statement that the failure of the permittee to contest the
order of suspension/revocation will constitute a waiver of the permittee's
right to administratively challenge the order of suspension/revocation, and the
order of suspension/revocation shall be deemed a final and binding
administrative decision; and
         j.   If applicable and in the possession of the department, copies of
the following documents:
            (1)   Permittee's application for tobacco retailer permit;
            (2)   Permittee's tobacco retailer permit;
            (3)   Permittee's tobacco retailer's license (as issued by the
state board of equalization); and
            (4)   Any law enforcement report, memorandum, and/or photograph
submitted by the sheriff's department or other law enforcement agency relied
upon by the department in support of the suspension or revocation. These
documents shall be redacted as required or permitted by law.
      2.   Service of the order of suspension/revocation shall be deemed to
have been completed on the date on which the order of suspension/revocation is
either personally delivered to the authorized agent or permittee or the date on
which the order of suspension/revocation is deposited with the United States
postal service.
      3.   Failure of an authorized agent or permittee to receive a properly
addressed order of suspension/revocation shall not invalidate any of the
proceedings pursuant to this article.
   D.   Contest Of Order Of Suspension/Revocation:
      1.   Any permittee whose permit has been suspended or revoked pursuant to
the provisions of this article may contest the order of suspension/revocation
by filing with the department a written request to contest the order of
suspension/revocation (including the imposition of the corresponding
administrative fine) within ten (10) calendar days of the order of suspension/
revocation. The written request must include, at a minimum, the following:
         a.   The name of the permittee, the address of the business property,
and the tobacco retailer permit number that is subject to the order of
suspension/revocation;
         b.   The date on which the order of suspension/revocation was issued;
         c.   A brief statement in ordinary and concise language of the
specific action protested, together with any material facts claimed to support
the contentions of the permittee;
         d.   A brief statement in ordinary and concise language of the relief
sought, and the reasons why it is claimed the order of suspension/revocation
should be reversed or otherwise set aside;
         e.   The signature of all proprietors who are contesting the order of
suspension/revocation under penalty of perjury as to the contents of the
request for appeal.
      2.   Notwithstanding title 1, chapter 4, "Administrative Citations", of
this code or any other provision of this code, an administrative fine assessed
against a tobacco retailer in conjunction with an order of suspension/
revocation, the assessment of the administrative fine, shall only be challenged
as set forth in this section.
      3.   Upon receipt of such written request for a hearing, the department
shall give not less than five (5) business days' written notice to the
permittee to show cause at a time and place fixed in the notice why the tobacco
retailer permit should not be suspended or revoked (as the case may be). The
written notice of hearing shall be served upon the permittee in the same manner
as the order of suspension/revocation.
      4.   Any order of suspension/revocation and any assessment of a
corresponding administrative fine shall be stayed pending a director's
determination upon the timely filing of a request for a hearing.
   E.   Administrative Review Hearing:
      1.   The director shall conduct the administrative review hearing at the
designated time and place. The hearing is to be conducted informally, and
formal rules of evidence do not apply. If a youth decoy participated in the
underlying investigation, the youth decoy shall not be required to appear or to
give testimony. At the hearing, the permittee shall have the burden of showing
cause why the tobacco retailer permit should not be suspended or revoked, and
the permittee shall be given an opportunity to present any evidence
(testimonial, documentary, or otherwise) as it pertains to whether a ground for
suspension or revocation exists. In determining whether a ground for suspension
or revocation exists, the director shall not consider any evidence pertaining
to "preventative measures" or "subsequent remedial measures" (e.g., employee
training, the termination of employment of the agent/employee that committed
the underlying violation, etc.).
      2.   Within thirty (30) calendar days of the conclusion of the
administrative review hearing, the director shall serve the permittee with
written notice of its determination as to whether the tobacco retailer permit
shall be suspended or revoked (and the corresponding administrative fine shall
be assessed). The written determination shall be served upon the permittee in
the same manner as the order of suspension/revocation. If the director
determines that the tobacco retailer permit shall be suspended or revoked, the
written determination shall contain all of the information required pursuant to
subsection C1 of this section. A written determination that the tobacco
retailer permit shall be suspended or revoked shall also contain the time frame
and manner in which the permittee may contest the director's determination as
set forth in section
5-2D-13 of this article, and, a statement that the failure of the permittee to
contest the director's determination will constitute a waiver of the
permittee's right to administratively challenge the director's determination,
and the director's determination to suspend or revoke the tobacco retailer
permit shall be deemed a final and binding administrative decision. (Ord. 12-
965)
5-2D-13: APPEAL OF DIRECTOR'S DETERMINATION:
   A.   Request For Appeal: Any permittee who has been aggrieved by a
director's determination to affirm an order of suspension/revocation and to
suspend or revoke a tobacco retailer permit (and impose the corresponding
administrative fine) may appeal the director's determination by submitting a
written request for appeal to the city clerk within ten (10) calendar days of
the director's written determination. The written request for appeal shall
contain, at a minimum, the following:
      1.   The name of the permittee, the address of the business property, and
the tobacco retailer permit number that is subject to the director's
determination to suspend or revoke;
      2.   The date on which the director's determination was issued;
      3.   A statement as to all grounds for appeal in ordinary and concise
language, together with any material facts claimed to support the contentions
of the permittee (as only the matters and issues raised in the written request
will be considered on appeal);
      4.   A brief statement in ordinary and concise language of the relief
sought, and the reasons why it is claimed the director's determination should
be reversed or otherwise set aside;
      5.   The signature of all proprietors who are contesting the director's
determination under penalty of perjury as to the contents of the request for
appeal.
   B.   Staying Of Suspension/Revocation: A director's determination to suspend
or revoke a tobacco retailer permit (and to pay the corresponding
administrative fine) shall be stayed pending a determination of the city
manager (or designee thereof) upon the timely filing of a written request for
appeal.
   C.   Notice Of Appeal Hearing: Upon receipt of such written request for
appeal, the city clerk shall give not less than five (5) business days' written
notice to the permittee of the date and time of the appeal hearing. Service of
the notice of appeal hearing shall be in the same manner as the order of
suspension/revocation.
   D.   Appeal Hearing: At the time and place set for the appeal hearing, the
city manager (or designee thereof) shall proceed to hear testimony and to
receive evidence from the city, the permittee, and other competent persons
respecting those matters or issues on appeal. Only those matters or issues
specifically raised by the permittee in the written request for appeal shall be
considered in the hearing of the appeal. The formal rules of evidence do not
apply to this proceeding. If a youth decoy participated in the underlying
investigation, the youth decoy shall not be required to appear or to give
testimony. At the hearing, the permittee shall be given an opportunity to
present any evidence (testimonial, documentary, or otherwise) as it pertains to
whether a ground for suspension or revocation exists. In determining whether a
ground for suspension or revocation exists, the director shall not consider any
evidence pertaining to "preventative measures" or "subsequent remedial
measures" (e.g., employee training, the termination of employment of the agent/
employee that committed the underlying violation, etc.).
   E.   Decision On Appeal: If it is shown at the appeal hearing by a
preponderance of the evidence that one or more bases exist to suspend or revoke
the tobacco retailer permit, the city manager (or designee thereof) shall
affirm the director's determination to suspend or revoke the permit and to
impose the corresponding administrative fine. The city manager shall cause to
be served upon the permittee a written notice of decision, which shall contain
the city manager's determination as to whether the tobacco retailer permit
shall be suspended or revoked and the corresponding administrative fine
assessed, as well as findings of fact that support the determination. The
written notice of decision shall further inform the appellant that the decision
is a final decision and that the time for judicial review for the suspension or
revocation is governed by California Code Of Civil Procedure section 1094.6 et
seq., and that the time for judicial review for the imposition of the
administrative fine is governed by Government Code section 53069.4(b). The
notice of decision shall be served upon the appellant in the same manner as the
order of suspension/revocation. A decision to affirm the director's
determination to suspend or revoke a tobacco retailer permit shall become
effective, and the permit shall be suspended or revoked, immediately upon
service of the written notice of decision. The corresponding administrative
fine shall be immediately due upon service of the written notice of decision.
(Ord. 12-965)
5-2D-14: NEW PERMIT AFTER REVOCATION:
   A.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, no tobacco
retailer's permit shall be issued to a tobacco retailer (or proprietor thereof)
whose permit has previously been revoked pursuant to subsection
5-2D-12A of this article for a period of twelve (12) months from the date of
the prior revocation.
   B.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, no tobacco
retailer's permit shall be issued for any location where a tobacco retailer
permit has previously been revoked pursuant to subsection
 5-2D-12A of this article for a period of twelve (12) months from the date of
the prior revocation, unless ownership of the business at the location has been
transferred in an arm's length transaction.
   C.   The revocation of a tobacco retailer's permit pursuant to subsection
5-2D-12B of this article shall be without prejudice to the filing of a new
tobacco retailer permit application. Any such new application shall be reviewed
in accordance with section
5-2D-6 of this article. (Ord. 12-965)
5-2D-15: VIOLATIONS:
   A.   In addition to any other remedy, any person who causes, permits, aids,
abets, suffers, or conceals a violation of any provision of this article, or
who fails to comply with any obligation or requirement of this article, is
guilty of a misdemeanor punishable in accordance with title 1, chapter 2 of
this code.
   B.   Each violation of this article is hereby declared to be a public
nuisance.
   C.   The remedies provided by this article are cumulative and in addition to
any other remedies available at law or in equity.
   D.   In addition to other remedies provided by this article or by other law,
any violation of this article may be remedied by administrative or civil
action, including, but not limited to, civil injunction or other abatement
action. (Ord. 12-965)
5-2D-16: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this
article is declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be unconstitutional
or otherwise invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions of this article. The city council declares that it would
have adopted this article, and each section, subsection, sentence, clause,
phrase or portion thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more
sections, subsections, phrases, or portions be declared invalid or
unconstitutional. (Ord. 12-965)
ARTICLE E. MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS AND THERAPISTS
SECTION:
5-2E-0: Purpose And Intent
5-2E-1: Definitions
5-2E-2: Conditional Use Permit
5-2E-3: CAMTC Certificate
5-2E-4: Massage Business Permit
5-2E-5: Massage Establishment Operating Requirements
5-2E-6: Change Of Location, Name, Or Information And Separate Location
5-2E-7: Appeals
5-2E-0: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose of this article is to protect the public's health and safety
through the establishment of certain licensing standards pertaining to massage
establishments within the city of Temple City, and to recognize massage therapy
as a legitimate business occupation and health service enhancement. Nothing in
this article is intended to permit any use, conduct and/or activity that
violates any federal, state, or local law or regulations. (Ord. 16-1010)
5-2E-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the particular provision or the context otherwise requires, the
definitions and provisions contained in this section shall govern the
construction, meaning, and application of words and phrases used in this
article.
   APPROVED SCHOOL: An institution that provides massage therapy education and
training as such term is defined in section 4600 of the massage therapy act.
   BUSINESS PERMIT OFFICER: The community development director of the city of
Temple City, or his or her designated representative.
   CAMTC: The California massage therapy council created by California Business
And Professions Code section 4600 and following sections.
   CAMTC CERTIFICATE: A current and valid certificate issued by the CAMTC.
   CITY: The city of Temple City.
   CITY COUNCIL: The city council of the city of Temple City.
   CITY MANAGER: The city manager of the city of Temple City, or his or her
designated representative.
   COUNTY: The county of Los Angeles.
   CUSTOMER AREA: Any area open to customers of a massage business or
establishment.
   EMPLOYEE: Any person, other than a massage therapist or manager, who
performs services at the massage establishment and receives compensation from
the operator of the massage establishment for such services, including an
independent contractor, while on the premises of the massage establishment.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT: The Los Angeles County department of health services.
   MANAGER: The person(s) designated by the operator of the massage
establishment to act as the representative and agent of the operator in
managing day to day operations with the same liabilities and responsibilities.
Evidence of management includes, but is not limited to, evidence that the
individual has power to direct or hire and dismiss employees, control hours of
operation, create policy or rules, or purchase supplies. A manager may also be
an operator.
   MASSAGE BUSINESS OR ESTABLISHMENT: Any business or establishment, including
a sole proprietor or independent contractor, conducted within the city where
any person engages in, conducts, carries on or permits to be engaged in,
conducted or carried on, for money or any other consideration, the
administration to another person of a massage.
   MASSAGE OR MASSAGE THERAPY: Any method of treating the external parts of the
body for remedial, hygienic, relaxation or any other similar purpose, whether
by means of pressure on, friction against or stroking, kneading, tapping,
pounding, vibrating, rubbing or other manner of touching external parts of the
body with the hands, or with the aid of any mechanical or electrical apparatus
or appliance with or without supplementary aids such as rubbing alcohol,
liniment, antiseptic, oil, powder, cream, ointment or other similar
preparations commonly used in this practice and shall include herbal body
wraps. For the purposes of this article, "massage" or "massage therapy"
includes the techniques of acupressure and reflexology.
   MASSAGE THERAPIST: Any person who administers to another person a massage
for any form of consideration.
   MASSAGE THERAPY ACT: Chapter 10.5 of division 2 of the California Business
And Professions Code (beginning at section 4600).
   OPERATOR: A sole proprietor of, a general partner of, or all persons who
have an ownership interest in, a massage business or establishment.
   PERSON: Any individual, corporation, partnership, association or other group
or combination of individuals acting as an entity.
   SHERIFF: The designated representative of the Los Angeles County sheriff's
department.
   SHERIFF'S DEPARTMENT: The Los Angeles County sheriff's department.
   SPECIFIED CRIMINAL OFFENSE: One or more of the following:
   A.   Pleading guilty or nolo contendere to, or being convicted in a court of
competent jurisdiction, within five (5) years of the date of filing the
application, a misdemeanor or felony crime involving sexual misconduct,
including, but not limited to, the following:
      1.   Chapter 1 of title 9 of the Penal Code (sections 261 - 269) relating
to sexual crimes; or
      2.   Chapter 8 of title 9 of the Penal Code (sections 314 - 318.6)
relating to indecent exposure, obscenity, and disorderly establishments; or
      3.   Penal Code section 647(a) or (b) relating to prostitution; or
      4.   Any similar offenses under the criminal code or Penal Code of this
state or any other states or countries; or
   B.   Having permitted within five (5) years of filing the application,
through an act of omission or commission, an employee or agent to engage in any
type of moral turpitude or sexual misconduct offense listed in subsection A of
this definition (the conduct of the employee or agent, if such resulted in a
conviction or a plea of nolo contendere or guilty, will be considered imputed
to the principal). (Ord. 16-1010)
5-2E-2: CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT:
   A.   Permit Required: No massage business or establishment may operate
without first obtaining a conditional use permit in accordance with title 9,
chapter 1, article F of this code. All operations must be conducted at the site
identified in the conditional use permit and comply with all conditions
contained in the conditional use permit.
   B.   Exceptions: Subsection A of this section shall not apply to the
following:
      1.   Medical offices, state licensed hospitals, nursing homes, and state
licensed physical or mental health facilities where massage therapy is provided
exclusively by physicians, surgeons, chiropractors, osteopaths, naturopaths,
podiatrists, acupuncturists, physical therapists, registered nurses or
vocational nurses duly licensed to practice their respective profession in the
state.
      2.   Barbershops, beauty parlors, beauty salons, hair salons, day spas,
and nail salons where massage therapy is provided exclusively by barbers,
cosmetologists, estheticians, or manicurists licensed to practice their
respective profession under the laws of the state while performing activities
within the scope of their license, provided that such massage is limited solely
to the neck, face, scalp, feet, hands, arms, and lower limbs up to the knees of
their patrons. (Ord. 16-1010)
5-2E-3: CAMTC CERTIFICATE:
   A.   Massage Businesses And Establishments: No person may engage in, conduct
or carry on, or permit to be engaged in, conducted or carried on in any
location within the city, a massage business or establishment unless all
persons providing massage therapy at or on behalf of the massage business or
establishment have a CAMTC certificate.
   B.   Massage Therapy: No person may engage in, conduct, carry on, or perform
massage therapy within the city unless such person has a CAMTC certificate.
   C.   Exceptions: Subsections A and B of this section shall not apply to the
following:
      1.   Any physician, surgeon, chiropractor, osteopath, naturopath,
podiatrist, acupuncturist, physical therapist, registered nurse or vocational
nurse duly licensed to practice their respective profession in the state.
      2.   Any treatment administered in good faith in the course of the
practice of any healing art or profession by any person licensed to practice
any such art or profession under the California Business And Professions Code
or any other law of the state.
      3.   Barbers, cosmetologists, estheticians, and manicurists licensed to
practice their respective profession under the laws of the state while
performing activities within the scope of their license, provided that such
massage is limited solely to the neck, face, scalp, feet, hands, arms, and
lower limbs up to the knees of their patrons.
      4.   State licensed hospitals, nursing homes, and other state licensed
physical or mental health facilities and their employees.
      5.   Persons who provide massage therapy to athletes or athletic teams,
facilities or events, so long as such persons do not practice massage therapy
as their primary occupation within the city.
      6.   Approved schools and their employees that provide massage therapy
education or training and their students in training, provided that such
students perform massage therapy only under the direct personal supervision of
an instructor. (Ord. 16-1010)
5-2E-4: MASSAGE BUSINESS PERMIT:
   A.   Business Permit Required: The operator of each massage business or
establishment must obtain a business permit pursuant to this article prior to
commencing operation or providing any massage therapy and must thereafter
maintain a valid business permit.
   B.   Business Permit Application: The application for a business permit will
be made in accordance with the provisions of this article. Each applicant for a
massage business permit must provide the following information where applicable
as determined by the city, with the application:
      1.   The full true name under which the massage establishment will be
conducted.
      2.   The present or proposed address where the massage establishment is
to be conducted.
      3.   The applicant's full, true name, any other names used within the
past five (5) years, date of birth, California driver's license number or
California identification number, present residence address and residence
telephone number, and the sex, height, weight, color of hair, and color of eyes
of the applicant.
      4.   Acceptable written proof that the applicant is at least eighteen
(18) years of age.
      5.   If the applicant is a corporation, the name of the corporation shall
be set forth exactly as shown in its articles of incorporation or charter
together with the state and date of incorporation and the names and residence
addresses and telephone numbers of each of its current officers and directors,
and of each stockholder holding more than five percent (5%) of the stock of
that corporation.
      6.   If the applicant is a partnership, the application shall set forth
the name, residence address and telephone numbers of each of the partners,
including each of the limited partners. If the applicant is a limited
partnership, it shall furnish a copy of its certificate of limited partnership.
If one or more of the partners is a corporation, the provisions of this section
pertaining to corporate applicants shall apply.
      7.   A complete description of all services to be provided at the massage
establishment.
      8.   The names and addresses of each massage therapist providing massage
therapy at or on behalf of the business or establishment, including whether
they are a full time employee or an independent contractor, and proof that each
such massage therapist has a valid CAMTC certificate.
      9.   The name of the person(s) designated by the applicant to act as
manager of the massage establishment. The manager shall be required, at all
times, to meet all of the applicable requirements of this article.
      10.   A photograph of passport quality for each manager and massage
therapist employed at the massage business or establishment.
      11.   A description of any other business to be operated on the same
premises, or on adjoining premises, owned or controlled by the applicant.
      12.   The name and address of the owner and lessor of the real property
upon or in which the massage establishment is to be conducted. In the event the
applicant is not the legal owner of the property, the application must be
accompanied by a copy of the lease and a notarized acknowledgment from the
owner of the property that a massage establishment will be located on his/her
property.
      13.   Business, occupation, or employment history of the applicant for
the three (3) years immediately preceding the date of the application.
      14.   The business license and permit history of the applicant, including
whether such person, in previously operating in this city, or another city or
state under license or permit, has had such license or permit revoked or
suspended, and the reason for such action.
      15.   An affidavit that the applicant has not been convicted of or
permitted any specified criminal offense. The applicant and operator of the
massage establishment must provide proof of a Live Scan or other similar city
approved background check.
      16.   A nonrefundable business permit fee, and renewal fee in the case of
a business permit renewal, as set by resolution of the city council shall be
paid to the city to defray the actual cost of processing the business permit.
      17.   A floor plan of the premises to be occupied by the massage
establishment, including any adjacent space to be leased, owned or occupied by
the operator of the massage establishment, and showing all entrances, exits,
windows, interior doors, restrooms, and all other separately enclosed rooms
including, but not limited to, closets, storerooms, break rooms, and changing
rooms.
      18.   An acknowledgment that by applying for a business permit, the
applicant understands that they are responsible for all violations of employees
or independent contractors that may take place in the massage business or
establishment that they own or manage, including whether each employee or
independent contractor holds a CAMTC certificate, and that such violations are
grounds for revocation of the business permit.
   C.   Inspection Of Premises: Upon receipt and/or after approval of a
complete application, a business permit officer will cause the periodic
inspection of the proposed premises of any fixed location massage business or
establishment for compliance with the requirements of this article and code.
   D.   Issuance Of Permit: Upon receipt of a written application for a
business permit for an establishment, a business permit officer shall ascertain
whether such business permit should be issued as requested. Upon the completion
of the review, the city must issue the business permit if it finds:
      1.   The required fee has been paid; and
      2.   The application conforms in all respects to the provisions of this
article; and
      3.   The applicant has not made a material misrepresentation or omission
in the application; and
      4.   The applicant is at least eighteen (18) years of age; and
      5.   A conditional use permit has been approved to operate the massage
establishment at the proposed location; and
      6.   The massage establishment as proposed by the applicant would comply
with all applicable laws, including, but not limited to, health, zoning, fire
and safety requirements and standards.
   E.   Denial Of Permit: If a business permit officer finds that any of the
applicable requirements of this article or this code are not satisfied,
including any conviction for or the permitting of a specified criminal offense,
recent history of prior business license or permit suspension or revocation, or
evidence that the applicant has provided materially false information, the
application will be denied. The decision of a business permit officer to deny a
business permit application or renewal may be appealed pursuant to the
procedures set forth in section
5-2E-7 of this article.
   F.   Permit Renewal: A massage business permit shall expire on December 31
of the year in which it is issued and shall be subject to annual renewals
thereafter. A business permit must be renewed annually in the same manner as a
new permit as provided in this article, at which time the applicant must
provide proof that all applicable requirements of this article and this code
remain satisfied.
   G.   Transfer Of Permit Prohibited: Upon the sale or transfer of any
interest in a massage business or establishment, the business permit will
become void. The person acquiring the interest in a massage business or
establishment must submit a new business permit application and receive
approval of such permit in accordance with the provisions of this article.
   H.   Notification Of Changes In Registered Massage Therapists: Each
permittee must submit to the city the names and applicable CAMTC certificate of
any new massage therapists not previously included in the list required under
subsection B8 of this section who are hired or retained to provide massage
therapy at or on behalf of the business or establishment, including whether
they will be an employee or independent contractor, prior to such person
commencing the provision of any massage therapy services. In addition, any
discharge or termination of the services of a massage therapist must be
reported to the city within five (5) business days of such event.
   I.   Revocation Or Suspension Of Permit: The following grounds constitute a
basis for the revocation or suspension of a permit:
      1.   The misrepresentation of a material fact by an applicant in
obtaining a permit; or
      2.   The continuation of the operations of the permittee under such
permit will be detrimental to the public health, safety, peace, welfare or
morals, or is found to constitute a public nuisance; or
      3.   The violation of any law related to the operation of the applicable
business, including any violations of this code or a specified criminal
offense; or
      4.   The violation of any condition imposed on the permit.
   J.   Revocation/Suspension Procedures:
      1.   Complaints against any permittee must be in writing and must set
forth one or more of the grounds enumerated above. Complaints must be filed
with, or may be initiated by, a business permit officer, who will then conduct
an investigation to determine whether the complaint is sufficient to show
probable cause for the revocation or suspension of the permit. A written report
of any officer, employee or agent of the city disclosing violations of any law
by the permittee or the permittee's agents or employees will also be deemed a
complaint within the meaning of this section. All complaints must be verified
unless made by city officers, employees, or agents in their official capacity.
      2.   Upon completion of the business permit officer's investigation, the
business permit officer will report the results to the city manager, together
with a recommendation as to whether grounds exist to revoke or suspend the
permit or whether the complaint should be disregarded.
      3.   Based upon the report of such business permit officer and such
additional investigation as the city manager may deem appropriate, the city
manager will determine whether the complaint constitutes a sufficient basis to
revoke or suspend the permit, and if so, will issue a written order of
revocation or suspension to the permittee setting forth the grounds for
revocation or suspension of the permit. Such written order must be sent by
certified mail to the permittee's last known address or be personally
delivered. The order must also provide notice that the permit revocation or
suspension will become final within ten (10) days of the date of mailing or
personal delivery of the order unless it is timely appealed in the manner
provided in section
5-2E-7 of this article. (Ord. 16-1010)
5-2E-5: MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT OPERATING REQUIREMENTS:
No person shall engage in, conduct, carry on, or permit to be engaged in,
conducted, or carried on, any massage establishment, unless each and all of the
following requirements are met:
   A.   Massage operations shall be carried on or conducted, and the premises
shall be open, only between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and ten
o'clock (10:00) P.M. of any day. A massage begun anytime before ten o'clock
(10:00) P.M. must nevertheless terminate at ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. All
customers and visitors shall be excluded from the massage establishment by that
time. The hours of operation shall be displayed in a conspicuous public place
in the lobby within plain view of the entrance and clearly visible from the
outside.
   B.   A person designated as a manager shall be on the massage establishment
premises at all times of operation and must be registered with the city by the
operator to receive all complaints and be responsible for all violations taking
place on the premises. The appointment of a manager must be in writing with the
manager in charge of the premises acknowledging this appointment. All managers
must be registered with the city prior to being employed in this position, and
all managers must possess a valid CAMTC certificate.
   C.   The massage establishment must post signs specifying a list of services
available, the cost of such services, and notice indicating that the massage
establishment and the massage rooms do not provide complete privacy and are
subject to inspection by the city and health officials without prior notice.
Such signs shall be posted in bold minimum one inch (1") type, in English and
such other languages as may be convenient to communicate such services, in an
open public place within plain view of the entry of the premises, and shall be
described in readily understandable terms. No operator or manager shall permit,
and no massage therapist shall offer or perform, any service other than those
posted pursuant to this section.
   D.   The massage establishment business permit and a copy of the CAMTC
certificate of each and every massage therapist employed in the massage
establishment shall be displayed in an open and conspicuous place within plain
view of the entry of the massage establishment premises.
   E.   Every massage establishment shall require all customers to sign a
register book. The manager shall assure that the massage establishment shall
keep an accurate register book showing the name and address of each customer in
clear and legible writing, verified by the customer's driver's license or
identification card, the name of the massage therapist administering the
treatment, and the type of treatment administered. Such register books shall be
maintained on a form approved by the city. Such books shall be open to
inspection by officials with responsibility for enforcement of this article
during regular business hours upon demand, written or oral, and without use of
subpoena or court process; and may not be used for any other purpose, including
use of the file by operators, managers and employees of the establishment. Such
register books shall be maintained on the premises of the massage establishment
for a period of two (2) years.
   F.   Massage establishments shall at all times be equipped with an adequate
supply of clean towels, coverings, and linens. Clean towels, coverings, and
linens shall be stored in enclosed cabinets. Separate enclosed cabinets shall
be provided for the storage of clean and soiled linens and shall be plainly
marked "clean linen" and "soiled linen". Towels and linens shall not be used on
more than one patron, unless they have first been laundered and disinfected.
Towels and linens shall be laundered or changed promptly after each use.
Disposable towels and coverings shall not be used on more than one patron.
Soiled linens and paper towels shall be deposited in separate, marked
receptacles.
   G.   Adequate bathing, dressing, locker, and toilet facilities shall be
provided for patrons. All shower, toilet, and washing facilities shall be
thoroughly cleaned and disinfected with a disinfectant approved by the health
department as needed, and at least once each day the premises are open.
   H.   If wet and dry heat rooms, steam and vapor rooms, cabinets, tanning
booths, whirlpool baths and pools are offered, they shall be thoroughly cleaned
and disinfected with a disinfectant approved by the health department as
needed, and at least once each day the premises are open. Bathtubs shall be
thoroughly cleaned after each use with a disinfectant approved by the health
department. All walls, ceilings, floors, and other physical facilities for the
establishment must be in good repair and maintained in a clean and sanitary
condition.
   I.   Instruments for performing massage shall not be used on more than one
patron unless they have been sterilized, using approved sterilization methods.
Each operator and/or on duty manager shall provide and maintain on the premises
adequate equipment for disinfecting and sterilizing instruments used in
massage.
   J.   All massage therapists shall be subject to the dress code provided in
Business And Professions Code section 4909(a)(10). All managers and employees
who are not massage therapists shall wear clean, nontransparent outer garments
that continuously cover the area from the bottom of the neck to the top of the
kneecap, shall remain clothed while on the massage establishment premises, and
shall not expose their genitals, pubic area, buttocks, or breasts.
   K.   No person shall enter, be or remain in any part of a massage
establishment while in possession of, consuming, or using any alcoholic
beverage or drugs except pursuant to a prescription for such drugs dispensed by
a pharmacy licensed through the state of California, board of pharmacy. The
operator and manager shall not permit the storage of alcoholic beverages or
condoms upon such premises.
   L.   All exterior doors (except a rear entrance for employees only) shall
remain unlocked during business hours, unless there is no massage establishment
staff available to assure the security of clients and massage therapists who
are behind closed doors.
   M.   Except as provided in subsection L of this section, doors to dressing
rooms, massage rooms, and treatment rooms may not be locked.
   N.   No massage establishment or accessory use locations employing massage
therapists shall be equipped with tinted or "one-way" glass in any room or
office.
   O.   Every operator or manager shall report to the city any change of
employees, whether by new or renewed employment, discharge or termination, on
the form and in the manner required by the city. The report shall contain the
name of the employee and the date of hire or termination. The report shall be
made within five (5) days of the date of hire or termination.
   P.   The operator and/or on duty manager shall consent to the unannounced
inspection of the massage establishment by the city and the county fire,
sheriff's, and health departments for the purpose of determining that the
provisions of this article or other applicable laws or regulations are met.
      1.   The city and the county fire, sheriff's, and health departments may,
from time to time, make an unannounced inspection of each massage establishment
for the purpose of determining that the provisions of this article, state law
or other applicable laws or regulations are met. Criminal investigations may be
conducted as directed by the sheriff's department. The sheriff's department
and/or city may inspect the occupied massage rooms for the purpose of
determining that the provisions of this article are met. During an inspection,
the sheriff's department and/or the city may verify the identity of all on duty
managers, therapists, and employees.
      2.   An operator, manager, massage therapist, or employee is prohibited
from refusing to permit an inspection of the massage establishment premises by
a representative of the city or a Los Angeles County regulatory official at any
time it is occupied or open for business, as required by this section.
   Q.   No person or persons shall live inside the massage establishment at any
time. No massage therapist or other person shall be allowed to occupy the
massage establishment after one hour of closing or before one hour of opening.
Bona fide cleaning contractors are exempt from this provision.
   R.   No electrical, mechanical or artificial device shall be used by the
operator, manager, therapist, or any employee of the massage establishment for
audio and/or video recording within dressing rooms, massage rooms, or treatment
rooms, or the conversation or other sounds within dressing rooms, massage
rooms, or treatment rooms.
   S.   The operator or on duty manager of the massage establishment shall keep
a complete and current list of the names, residence addresses, and telephone
numbers of all massage therapists and employees of the massage establishment
and the name, residence address and telephone number of the manager purported
to be principally in charge of the operation of the massage establishment. This
roster shall be written in English, kept on the premises and be available for
inspection by any official charged with enforcement of this article.
   T.   Each massage establishment shall provide to all customers clean,
sanitary and opaque coverings capable of covering the patrons' specified
anatomical areas including the genital and pubic areas, anus, and female breast
consistent with state of California Government Code section 51034. No common
use of such coverings shall be permitted and reuse is prohibited unless
adequately cleaned.
   U.   No massage establishment shall place, publish, distribute, or cause to
be placed, published, or distributed any advertising matter that depicts any
portion of the human body that would reasonably suggest to prospective
customers that any service is available other than those services described in
this article. No massage establishment shall employ language in the text of
such advertising that would reasonably suggest to prospective customers that
any service is available other than those services authorized by this article.
   V.   No person shall engage in, conduct, or carry on the business of a
massage establishment unless there is on file with the city, in full force and
effect at all times, documents issued by an insurance company authorized to do
business in the state of California evidencing that the licensee is insured
under a liability insurance policy providing minimum coverage of one hundred
thousand dollars ($100,000.00) for injury or death to one person arising out of
the operation of any massage establishment and the administration of a massage.
   W.   All massage establishments must comply with all state and federal laws
and regulations for persons with a disability, including all applicable
antidiscrimination laws.
   X.   No person(s) other than valid CAMTC certificate holders, employees,
customers, vendors, and service providers will be allowed beyond the front
lobby, located directly inside the front door entrance during hours of
operation.
   Y.   Minimum lighting shall be provided in accordance with article 220 of
the national electrical code, and, in addition, at least one artificial light
of not less than forty (40) watts shall be illuminated in each room or
enclosure where massage services are performed on customers.
   Z.   Massages shall be administered only on standard massage tables, and not
on pads or beds. Pads used on massage tables shall be covered with a durable
washable plastic or other waterproof material acceptable to the health
department.
   AA.   No massage business located in a building or structure with exterior
windows fronting a public street, highway, walkway, or parking area shall block
visibility into the interior reception and waiting areas through the use of
curtains, closed blinds, tints, or any other material that obstructs or darkens
the view into the premises or by signs that cover more than fifteen percent
(15%) of any windowpane. The interior of the business shall be plainly visible
from the exterior of the business by passing vehicles and pedestrians.
   BB.   Each establishment, operator, manager, massage therapist, and employee
shall comply with the state of California Business And Professions Code
sections 4600 - 4641.
   CC.   Each establishment, operator, manager, massage therapist, and employee
shall ensure that at no time other than for brief moments during changing in
private rooms will any genitalia or female breasts be uncovered. (Ord. 16-1010)
5-2E-6: CHANGE OF LOCATION, NAME, OR INFORMATION AND SEPARATE LOCATION:
   A.   Any change of location of any massage establishment must first be
approved by the city who must determine, prior to approval that all ordinances
and regulations of the city will be complied with at any proposed new location
and that a conditional use permit has been approved to operate the massage
establishment at the new location.
   B.   Where a person holding a business permit issued under the provisions of
this article changes the name of the massage establishment, such person must
make an application to the city and pay a fee in an amount set by city council
resolution to have said business permit amended to reflect the change of name.
   C.   No CAMTC certificate holder or massage establishment shall operate
under any name or conduct any establishment under any designation not specified
in the CAMTC certificate or business permit issued pursuant to this article.
   D.   Any application for an extension or expansion of a building or other
place of business of a massage establishment shall require compliance with the
city's zoning regulations.
   E.   A separate business permit shall be required for each location of a
massage establishment.
   F.   If during the life of a massage establishment business permit the
permittee has any change in information concerning the original application,
notification of such change(s) must be made to the city, in writing, within
thirty (30) days of the change(s).
   G.   Any massage establishment which is legally permitted by the city upon
the effective date of this article and has any type of change to the ownership
or ownership structure shall be required to comply in full with all
requirements of this article. (Ord. 16-1010)
5-2E-7: APPEALS:
   A.   Permit Denial:
      1.   An applicant may appeal the business permit officer's denial of a
permit or permit renewal by filing a written notice of appeal with the city
clerk setting forth the grounds for disagreement with the decision within ten
(10) days of the date of the decision. The appeal must be accompanied by the
applicable appeal fee.
      2.   The city clerk will then fix a time and place for the hearing of
such appeal before the city manager, and must give notice to the appellant of
the time and place of the hearing by certified mail or personal delivery to the
appellant at the address provided in the appeal.
      3.   At the hearing, the city manager will have authority to determine
all questions raised on such appeal, provided that no such determination may
conflict with any substantive provision of this code or other applicable law.
The decision of the city manager will be final, and will be effective upon the
date that written notice of the decision is sent by certified mail or
personally delivered to the appellant.
   B.   Permit Revocation Or Suspension:
      1.   A permittee may appeal the city manager's revocation or suspension
order by filing a written notice of appeal with the city clerk setting forth
the grounds for disagreement with the decision within ten (10) days of the date
of the revocation or suspension order. The appeal must be accompanied by the
applicable appeal fee established by city council resolution.
      2.   If an appeal of a revocation or suspension order is timely filed,
the matter will be scheduled for a hearing within a reasonable time before a
city appointed administrative hearing officer. The filing of such appeal will
stay the revocation or suspension order until a final decision is made by the
hearing officer. The permittee, and any other persons requesting notice must be
given at least ten (10) days' written notice of the time and place of such
hearing.
      3.   At the hearing, the hearing officer will determine whether a
sufficient basis exists for the revocation or suspension of the permit based
upon the complaint, applicable staff reports, the revocation or suspension
order, and such other evidence as may be presented that is relevant to the
proceedings. The permittee will be given a reasonable opportunity to be heard
in conjunction with the revocation or suspension proceedings. The burden of
proof will be upon the city to show that the facts and evidence is sufficient
to constitute a basis for revocation or suspension of the permit. The
proceedings before the hearing officer will be an informal administrative
hearing and the rules of evidence, as generally applied in judicial
proceedings, will not be applicable. However, city officials or representatives
and the permittee will have the right of subpoena.
      4.   The hearing officer must issue a written decision on the appeal
within ten (10) days of the conclusion of the hearing unless the city and the
permittee agree to a different deadline. Notice of such decision must be
provided to the permittee by certified mail or personal delivery.
      5.   The decision of the hearing officer will be effective upon the date
of mailing or personal delivery of the decision, and will be final. (Ord. 16-
1010)
ARTICLE F. ADULT ORIENTED BUSINESSES
SECTION:
5-2F-0: Legislative Purpose
5-2F-1: Definitions
5-2F-2: Permits Required
5-2F-3: Adult Oriented Business Regulatory Permit Required
5-2F-4: Applications
5-2F-5: Investigation And Action On Regulatory Permit Application
5-2F-6: Permit Denial
5-2F-7: Transfer Of Adult Oriented Business Regulatory Permits
5-2F-8: Adult Oriented Business Performer Permit
5-2F-9: Investigation And Action On Performer Permit Application
5-2F-10: Suspension Or Revocation Of Adult Oriented Business Regulatory Permits
And Adult Oriented Business Performer Permits
5-2F-11: Appeal Of Denial; Suspension Or Revocation
5-2F-12: Adult Oriented Business Development And Performance Standards
5-2F-13: Register And Permit Number Of Employees
5-2F-14: Display Of Permit And Identification Cards
5-2F-15: Employment Of And Services Rendered To Persons Under The Age Of
Eighteen Years Prohibited
5-2F-16: Inspection
5-2F-17: Regulations Nonexclusive
5-2F-18: Employment Of Persons Without Permits Unlawful
5-2F-19: Time Limit For Filing Application For Permit
5-2F-20: Severability
5-2F-21: California Environmental Quality Act Finding
5-2F-22: Repeal
5-2F-23: Effective Date
5-2F-0: LEGISLATIVE PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this article to regulate adult oriented businesses in
order to promote the health, safety, morals, and general welfare of the
citizens of the City. The provisions of this article have neither the purpose
nor effect of imposing a limitation or restriction on the content of any
communicative materials, including adult oriented materials. Similarly, it is
not the intent nor effect of this article to restrict or deny access by adults
to adult oriented materials protected by the First Amendment, or to deny access
by the distributors and exhibitors of adult oriented entertainment to their
intended market. Neither is it the intent nor effect of this article to condone
or legitimize the distribution of obscene material. (Ord. 99-835; amd. Ord. 17-
1022)
5-2F-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this article the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
   ADULT ORIENTED BUSINESS OPERATOR (OPERATOR): A person who supervises,
manages, inspects, directs, organizes, controls or in any other way is
responsible for or in charge of the premises of an adult oriented business or
the conduct or activities occurring on the premises thereof.
   ADULT ORIENTED BUSINESSES: Any one (1) of the following:
Adult Arcade: An establishment where, for any form of consideration, one (1) or
more still or motion picture projectors, or similar machines, for viewing by
five (5) or fewer persons each, are used to show films, computer generated
images, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides or other photographic
reproductions thirty percent (30%) or more of the number of which are
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis upon the depiction or description
of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
Adult Bookstore: An establishment that has thirty percent (30%) or more of its
stock in books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or of
photographs, films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides, tapes, records or
other form of visual or audio representations which are distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis upon the depiction or description of specified
sexual activities and/or specified anatomical areas.
Adult Cabaret: A nightclub, restaurant, or similar business establishment
which: a) regularly features live performances which are distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis upon the display of specified anatomical areas or
specified sexual activities; and/or b) which regularly features persons who
appear seminude; and/or c) shows films, computer generated images, motion
pictures, videocassettes, slides, or other photographic reproductions thirty
percent (30%) or more of the number of which are distinguished or characterized
by an emphasis upon the depiction or description of specified sexual activities
or specified anatomical areas.
Adult Hotel/Motel: A hotel or motel or similar business establishment offering
public accommodations for any form of consideration which: a) provides patrons
with closed circuit television transmissions, films, computer generated images,
motion pictures, videocassettes, slides, or other photographic reproductions
thirty percent (30%) or more of the number of which are distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis upon the depiction or description of specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas; and b) rents, leases, or lets
any room for less than a six (6) hour period, or rents, leases, or lets any
single room more than twice in a twenty four (24) hour period.
Adult Motion Picture Theater: A business establishment where, for any form of
consideration, films, computer generated images, motion pictures,
videocassettes, slides or similar photographic reproductions are shown, and
thirty percent (30%) or more of the number of which are distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis upon the depiction or description of specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
Adult Theater: A theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar establishment
which, for any form of consideration regularly features live performances which
are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the display of specified
anatomical areas or specified sexual activities.
Juice Bar And Other Places Dispensing Food Or Drink: Any food or beverage
establishment where the persons owning or employed in the preparation or
dispensation of such food or beverage appears before (or is discernable by) the
patrons of such establishment as being nude, seminude or exhibiting the
specified anatomical features, as described herein.
Modeling Studio: A business which provides, for pecuniary compensation,
monetary or other consideration, hire or reward, figure models who, for the
purposes of sexual stimulation of patrons, display "specified anatomical areas"
to be observed, sketched, photographed, painted, sculpted or otherwise depicted
by persons paying such consideration. "Modeling studio" does not include
schools maintained pursuant to standards set by the State Board of Education.
"Modeling studio" further does not include a studio or similar facility owned,
operated, or maintained by an individual artist or group of artists, and which
does not provide, permit, or make available "specified sexual activities".
   APPLICANT: A person who is required to file an application for a permit
under this chapter, including an individual owner, managing partner, officer of
a corporation, or any other operator, manager, employee, or agent of an adult
oriented business.
   BAR: Any commercial establishment licensed by the State Department of
Alcoholic Beverage Control to serve any alcoholic beverages on the premises.
   DISTINGUISHED OR CHARACTERIZED BY AN EMPHASIS UPON: The dominant or
essential theme of the object described by such phrase. For instance, when the
phrase refers to films "which are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis
upon" the depiction or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas, the films so described are those whose dominant or
predominant character and theme are the depiction of the enumerated sexual
activities or anatomical areas. See Pringle v. City of Covina, 115 Cal.App.3
151 (1981).
   FIGURE MODEL: Any person who, for pecuniary compensation, consideration,
hire or reward, poses in a modeling studio to be observed, sketched, painted,
drawn, sculptured, photographed or otherwise depicted.
   HEALTH OFFICER: The Health Officer of the City of Temple City or his or her
duly authorized representative.
   NUDITY OR A STATE OF NUDITY: The showing of the human male or female
genitals, pubic area, or buttocks with less than a fully opaque covering, the
showing of the female breast with less than a fully opaque covering of any part
of the nipple, or the showing of the covered male genitals in a discernible
turgid state.
   OPERATE AN ADULT ORIENTED BUSINESS: The supervising, managing, inspecting,
directing, organizing, controlling or in any way being responsible for or in
charge of the conduct of activities of an adult oriented business or activities
within an adult oriented business.
   PERMITTEE: The person to whom an adult oriented business permit is issued.
   PERSON: Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, association, joint
stock company, corporation, or combination of the above in whatever form or
character.
   POLICE CHIEF: The Police Chief of the City of Temple City or the authorized
representatives thereof.
   REGULARLY FEATURES: With respect to an adult theater or adult cabaret means
a regular and substantial course of conduct. The fact that live performances
which are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis upon the display of
specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities occurs on two (2) or
more occasions within a thirty (30) day period; three (3) or more occasions
within a sixty (60) day period; or four (4) or more occasions within a one
hundred eighty (180) day period, shall to the extent permitted by law be deemed
to be a regular and substantial course of conduct.
   SEMINUDE: A state of dress in which clothing covers no more than the
genitals, pubic region, buttocks, areola of the female breast, as well as
portions of the body covered by supporting straps or devices.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS: Any of the following:
   A.   Less than completely and opaquely covered human: 1) genitals or pubic
region; 2) buttocks; and 3) female breast below a point immediately above the
top of the areola; and
   B.   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely
and opaquely covered.
   C.   Any device, costume or covering that simulates any of the body parts
included in subsection A or B of this definition.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES: Any of the following, whether performed
directly or indirectly through clothing or other covering:
   A.   The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks, anus, or female breast;
   B.   Sex acts, actual or simulated, including intercourse, oral copulation,
or sodomy;
   C.   Masturbation, actual or simulated;
   D.   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the other
activities described in subsections A through C of this definition. (Ord. 99-
835; amd. Ord. 17-1022)
5-2F-2: PERMITS REQUIRED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in, conduct or carry on,
or to permit to be engaged in, conducted or carried on, in or upon any premises
in the City of Temple City the operation of an adult oriented business unless
the person first obtains and continues to maintain in full force and effect a
permit from the City of Temple City as herein required, i.e., an adult oriented
business regulatory permit.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any persons to engage in or participate in any
live performance depicting specified anatomical areas or involving specified
sexual activities in an adult oriented business unless the person first obtains
and continues in full force and effect a permit from the City of Temple City as
herein required, i.e., an adult oriented business performer permit. (Ord. 99-
835; amd. Ord. 17-1022)
5-2F-3: ADULT ORIENTED BUSINESS REGULATORY PERMIT REQUIRED:
Every person who proposes to maintain, operate or conduct an adult oriented
business in the City of Temple City shall file an application with the City
Manager upon a form provided by the City of Temple City and shall pay a filing
fee, as established by resolution adopted by the City Council from time to
time, which shall not be refundable. (Ord. 99-835; amd. Ord. 17-1022)
5-2F-4: APPLICATIONS:
   A.   Adult oriented business regulatory permits are nontransferable, except
in accordance with section
5-2F-7 of this article. Therefore, all applications shall include the following
information:
      1.   If the applicant is an individual, the individual shall state his or
her legal name, including any aliases, address, and submit satisfactory written
proof that he or she is at least eighteen (18) years of age.
      2.   If the applicant is a partnership, the partners shall state the
partnership's complete name, address, the names of all partners, whether the
partnership is general or limited, and attach a copy of the partnership
agreement, if any.
      3.   If the applicant is a corporation, the corporation shall provide its
complete name, the date of its incorporation, evidence that the corporation is
in good standing under the laws of California, the names and capacity of all
officers and directors, the name of the registered corporate agent and the
address of the registered office for service of process.
   B.   If the applicant is an individual, he or she shall sign the
application. If the applicant is other than an individual, an officer of the
business entity or an individual with a ten percent (10%) or greater interest
in the business entity shall sign the application.
   C.   If the applicant intends to operate the adult oriented business under a
name other than that of the applicant, the applicant shall file the fictitious
name of the adult oriented business and show proof of registration of the
fictitious name.
   D.   A description of the type of adult oriented business for which the
permit is requested and the proposed address where the adult oriented business
will operate, plus the names and addresses of the owners and lessors of the
adult oriented business site.
   E.   The address to which notice of action on the application is to be
mailed.
   F.   The names of all employees, independent contractors, and other persons
who will perform at the adult oriented business, who are required by section
5-2F-8 of this article to obtain an adult oriented business performer license
(for ongoing reporting requirements see section
5-2F-8 of this article).
   G.   A sketch or diagram showing the interior configuration of the premises,
including a statement of the total floor area occupied by the adult oriented
business. The sketch or diagram need not be professionally prepared, but must
be drawn to a designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the interior
of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches (±6").
   H.   A certificate and straight line drawing prepared within thirty (30)
days prior to application depicting the building and the portion thereof to be
occupied by the adult oriented business, and: 1) the property line of any other
adult oriented business within eight hundred feet (800') of the primary
entrance of the adult oriented business for which a permit is requested; and 2)
the property lines of any church, school, park, residential zone or use within
eight hundred feet (800') of the primary entrance of the adult oriented
business.
   I.   A diagram of the off street parking areas and premises entries of the
adult oriented business showing the location of the lighting system required by
subsection
5-2F-12C of this article.
   J.   The City Manager shall immediately designate a Special Hearing Officer.
If the Special Hearing Officer determines that the applicant has completed the
application improperly, the Special Hearing Officer shall promptly notify the
applicant of such fact and, on request of the applicant, grant the applicant an
extension of time of ten (10) days or less to complete the application
properly. In addition, the applicant may request an extension, not to exceed
ten (10) days, of the time for the Special Hearing Officer to act on the
application. The time period for granting or denying a permit shall be stayed
during the period in which the applicant is granted an extension of time.
   K.   The fact that an applicant possesses other types of State or City
permits or licenses does not exempt the applicant from the requirement of
obtaining an adult oriented business regulatory permit. (Ord. 99-835; amd. Ord.
17-1022)
5-2F-5: INVESTIGATION AND ACTION ON REGULATORY PERMIT APPLICATION:
   A.   Upon receipt of a completed application and payment of the application
and permit fees, the Special Hearing Officer shall immediately stamp the
application as received and promptly investigate the information contained in
the application to determine whether the applicant shall be issued an adult
oriented business regulatory permit.
   B.   Within thirty (30) days of receipt of the completed application, the
Special Hearing Officer shall complete the investigation, grant or deny the
application in accordance with the provisions of this section, and so notify
the applicant as follows:
      1.   The Special Hearing Officer shall write or stamp "Granted" or
"Denied" on the application and date and sign such notation.
      2.   If the application is denied, the Special Hearing Officer shall
attach to the application a statement of the reasons for denial, and advise the
applicant in writing that there is a ninety (90) day statute of limitations
under Code of Civil Procedure 1094.6 in which he may seek court review.
      3.   If the application is granted, the Special Hearing Officer shall
attach to the application an adult oriented business regulatory permit.
      4.   The application as granted or denied and the permit, if any, shall
be placed in the United States mail, first class postage prepaid, addressed to
the applicant at the address stated in the application.
   C.   The Special Hearing Officer shall grant the application and issue the
adult oriented business regulatory permit upon findings that the proposed
business meets the locational criteria of subsection
9-1T-3D of this Code; and that the applicant has met all of the development and
performance standards and requirements of section
5-2F-12 of this article, unless the application is denied for one (1) or more
of the reasons set forth in section 5-2F-6 of this article. The permittee shall
post the permit conspicuously in the adult oriented business premises.
   D.   Any other provision of this Code notwithstanding, this City recognizes
its obligations under Federal and State constitutional guarantees to provide
decisions without delay with regard to applications for adult businesses.
Accordingly, whenever any such application is made, the City will conduct its
proceedings in such fashion as:
      1.   To indicate to applicant in writing within fifteen (15) days whether
the application is complete, and if not complete to inform the applicant what
additional information is required to make such application complete;
      2.   To make its decision to approve or disapprove such application
within twenty (20) days after the application therefor is complete.
         a.   If any such application is denied, the applicant may within
ninety (90) days as provided in Code of Civil Procedure 1094.6 apply to a court
of competent jurisdiction for a review of such denial; in such case, City shall
expedite a judicial decision with regard thereto in order to have such judicial
decision completed within thirty (30) days after applicant files the same,
discounting such time as applicant itself causes any delay in such court
proceedings.
         b.   City shall do nothing to cause any delay in the process above set
forth.
         c.   If City cannot comply with such administrative twenty (20) day
deadline, or if a judicial decision cannot be obtained within thirty (30) days
after applicant's filing (disregarding any delays caused by applicant), then
City shall immediately, upon written request from applicant, issue an interim
defacto license for such activity to the extent it is mandated by State or
Federal guarantees; and to the extent it complies with every other relevant
Municipal Code or Zoning Code section with regard thereto.
            (1)   Such interim defacto license shall continue only until such
court decision is rendered, provided that the same may be revoked or suspended,
if applicant causes any delay in such proceedings.
            (2)   Such interim defacto license shall continue on a day to day
basis until such deadlines are met.
            (3)   Such interim defacto license shall be deemed to be in force
and effect for the limited purpose of according to an applicant its
constitutional rights; and shall not be deemed a decision on the merits nor an
indication of permanency.
            (4)   Any applicant asking for and receiving such interim defacto
license shall assume the risk of any expenditures or reliance upon such
temporary activity in the event that the permanent license is denied by the
courts or City.
            (5)   This subsection D shall remain in effect for only so long as:
a) the case of Baby Tam v. Las Vegas 154 F3d 1097 remains in effect and has not
been overruled; or b) the State Legislature adopts legislation providing a
prompt review under section 1094.5, 1094.6, 1094.7 or 1094.8 of the Code of
Civil Procedure. Upon either such event this subsection D shall be inoperative.
(Ord. 99-835; amd. Ord. 17-1022)
5-2F-6: PERMIT DENIAL:
The Special Hearing Officer shall deny the application for any of the following
reasons:
   A.   The building, structure, equipment, or location used by the business
for which an adult oriented business regulatory permit is required do not
comply with the requirements and standards of the health, zoning, fire and
safety laws of the City and the State of California, or with the locational or
development and performance standards and requirements of these regulations.
   B.   The applicant, his or her employee, agent, partner, director, officer,
shareholder or manager has knowingly made any false, misleading or fraudulent
statement of material fact in the application for an adult business regulatory
permit.
   C.   An applicant is under eighteen (18) years of age.
   D.   The required application fee has not been paid.
   E.   The adult oriented business does not comply with the zoning ordinance
locational standards, subsections
 9-1T-3D through
9-1T-3F of this Code.
Each adult oriented business regulatory permit shall expire one (1) year from
the date of issuance, and may be renewed only by filing with the City Manager a
written request for renewal, accompanied by the annual permit fee and a copy of
the permit to be renewed. The request for renewal shall be made at least thirty
(30) days before the expiration date of the permit. When made less than thirty
(30) days before the expiration date, the expiration of the permit will not be
stayed. Applications for renewal shall be acted on as provided herein for
action upon applications for permits. (Ord. 99-835; amd. Ord. 17-1022)
5-2F-7: TRANSFER OF ADULT ORIENTED BUSINESS REGULATORY PERMITS:
   A.   A permittee shall not operate an adult oriented business under the
authority of an adult oriented business regulatory permit at any place other
than the address of the adult oriented business stated in the application for
the permit.
   B.   A permittee shall not transfer ownership or control of an adult
oriented business or transfer an adult oriented business regulatory permit to
another person unless and until the transferee obtains an amendment to the
permit from the City Manager stating that the transferee is now the permittee.
Such an amendment may be obtained only if the transferee files an application
with the City Manager in accordance with sections
5-2F-3 and
5-2F-4 of this article, accompanies the application with a transfer fee in an
amount set by resolution of the City Council, and the City Manager determines
in accordance with section
5-2F-5 of this article that the transferee would be entitled to the issuance of
an original permit.
   C.   No permit may be transferred when the City Manager has notified the
permittee that the permit has been or may be suspended or revoked.
   D.   Any attempt to transfer a permit either directly or indirectly in
violation of this section is hereby declared void, and the permit shall be
deemed revoked. (Ord. 99-835; amd. Ord. 17-1022)
5-2F-8: ADULT ORIENTED BUSINESS PERFORMER PERMIT:
   A.   No person shall engage in or participate in any live performance
depicting specified anatomical areas or involving specified sexual activities
in an adult oriented business, without a valid adult oriented business
performer permit issued by the City. All persons who have been issued an adult
oriented business regulatory permit shall promptly supplement the information
provided as part of the application for the permit required by section 5-2F-
2 of this article, with the names of all performers required to obtain an adult
oriented business performer permit, within thirty (30) days of any change in
the information originally submitted. Failure to submit such changes shall be
grounds for suspension of the adult oriented business regulatory permit.
   B.   The City Manager shall grant, deny and renew adult business employee
permits.
   C.   The application for a permit shall be made on a form provided by the
City Manager. An original and two (2) copies of the completed and sworn permit
application shall be filed with the City Manager.
   D.   The completed application shall contain the following information and
be accompanied by the following documents:
      1.   The applicant's legal name and any other names (including "stage
names" and aliases) used by the applicant;
      2.   Age, date and place of birth;
      3.   Height, weight, hair and eye color;
      4.   Present residence address and telephone number;
      5.   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of:
         a.   Any of the offenses set forth in sections 315, 316, 266a, 266b,
266c, 266e, 266g, 266h, 266i, 647(a), 647(b) and 647(D) of the California Penal
Code as those sections now exist or may hereafter be amended or renumbered.
         b.   The equivalent of the aforesaid offenses outside the State of
California;
      6.   Whether such person is or has ever been licensed or registered as a
prostitute, or otherwise authorized by the laws of any other jurisdiction to
engage in prostitution in such other jurisdiction. If any person mentioned in
this subsection has ever been licensed or registered as a prostitute, or
otherwise authorized by the laws of any other state to engage in prostitution,
a statement shall be submitted giving the place of such registration, licensing
or legal authorization, and the inclusive dates during which such person was so
licensed, registered, or authorized to engage in prostitution;
      7.   State driver's license or identification number;
      8.   Satisfactory written proof that the applicant is at least eighteen
(18) years of age;
      9.   The applicant's fingerprints on a form provided by the Police
Department, and a color photograph clearly showing the applicant's face. Any
fees for the photographs and fingerprints shall be paid by the applicant;
      10.   If the application is made for the purpose of renewing a license,
the applicant shall attach a copy of the license to be renewed.
   E.   The completed application shall be accompanied by a nonrefundable
application fee. The amount of the fee shall be set by resolution of the City
Council.
   F.   Upon receipt of an application and payment of the application fees, the
City Manager or his Special Hearing Officer shall immediately stamp the
application as received and promptly investigate the application.
   G.   If the City Manager determines that the applicant has completed the
application improperly, the City Manager shall promptly notify the applicant of
such fact and grant the applicant an extension of time of not more than ten
(10) days to complete the application properly. In addition, the applicant may
request an extension, not to exceed ten (10) days, of the time for the City
Manager to act on the application. The time period for granting or denying a
permit shall be stayed during the period in which the applicant is granted an
extension of time.
   H.   The foregoing time limits shall be subordinate to the overall time
limits set forth in subsection
5-2F-5D of this article. (Ord. 99-835; amd. Ord. 17-1022)
5-2F-9: INVESTIGATION AND ACTION ON PERFORMER PERMIT APPLICATION:
   A.   Within five (5) days after receipt of the properly completed
application, the City Manager or his Special Hearing Officer shall grant or
deny the application and so notify the applicant as follows:
      1.   The City Manager shall write or stamp "Granted" or "Denied" on the
application and date and sign such notation.
      2.   If the application is denied, the City Manager shall attach to the
application a statement of the reasons for denial.
      3.   If the application is granted, the City Manager shall attach to the
application an adult oriented business employee permit.
      4.   The application as granted or denied and the permit, if any, shall
be placed in the United States mail, first class postage prepaid, addressed to
the applicant at the residence address stated in the application.
   B.   The City Manager or his Special Hearing Officer shall grant the
application and issue the permit unless the application is denied for one (1)
or more of the reasons set forth in subsection D of this section.
   C.   The foregoing time limits shall be subordinate to the provisions of
subsection
5-2F-5D of this article.
   D.   The City Manager or his Special Hearing Officer shall deny the
application for any of the following reasons:
      1.   The applicant has knowingly made any false, misleading, or
fraudulent statement of a material fact in the application for a permit or in
any report or document required to be filed with the application;
      2.   The applicant is under eighteen (18) years of age;
      3.   The adult oriented business employee permit is to be used for
performing in a business prohibited by State or City law.
      4.   The applicant has been registered in any state as a prostitute.
      5.   The applicant has been convicted of any of the offenses enumerated
in subsection
5-2F-8D5 of this article or convicted of an offense outside the State of
California that would have constituted any of the described offenses if
committed within the State of California. A permit may be issued to any person
convicted of the described crimes if the conviction occurred more than five (5)
years prior to the date of the application.
   E.   Each adult oriented business performer permit shall expire one (1) year
from the date of issuance and may be renewed only by filing with the City
Manager a written request for renewal, accompanied by the application fee and a
copy of the permit to be renewed. The request for renewal shall be made at
least thirty (30) days before the expiration date of the permit. When made less
than thirty (30) days before the expiration date, the expiration of the permit
will not be stayed. Applications for renewal shall be acted on as provided
herein for applications for permits. (Ord. 99-835; amd. Ord. 17-1022)
5-2F-10: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF ADULT ORIENTED BUSINESS REGULATORY PERMITS
AND ADULT ORIENTED BUSINESS PERFORMER PERMITS:
An adult oriented business regulatory permit or adult oriented business
performer permit may be suspended or revoked in accordance with the procedures
and standards of this section.
   A.   On determining that grounds for permit revocation exist, the City
Manager or his Special Hearing Officer shall furnish written notice of the
proposed suspension or revocation to the permittee. Such notice shall set forth
the time and place of a hearing, and the ground or grounds upon which the
hearing is based, the pertinent Code sections, and a brief statement of the
factual matters in support thereof. The notice shall be mailed, postage
prepaid, addressed to the last known address of the permittee, or shall be
delivered to the permittee personally, at least ten (10) days prior to the
hearing date. Hearings shall be conducted in accordance with procedures
established by the City Manager, but at a minimum shall include the following:
      1.   All parties involved shall have a right to offer testimonial,
documentary, and tangible evidence bearing on the issues; may be represented by
counsel; and shall have the right to confront and cross examine witnesses. Any
relevant evidence may be admitted that is the sort of evidence upon which
reasonable persons are accustomed to rely in the conduct of serious affairs.
Any hearing under this section may be continued for a reasonable time for the
convenience of a party or a witness. The City Manager's or his Special Hearing
Officer's decision may be appealed in accordance with section
5-2F-11 of this article.
   B.   A permittee may be subject to suspension or revocation of his permit,
or be subject to other appropriate disciplinary action, for any of the
following causes arising from the acts or omissions of the permittee, or an
employee, agent, partner, director, stockholder, or manager of an adult
oriented business:
      1.   The permittee has knowingly made any false, misleading or fraudulent
statement of material facts in the application for a permit, or in any report
or record required to be filed with the City.
      2.   The permittee, employee, agent, partner, director, stockholder, or
manager of an adult oriented business has knowingly allowed or permitted, and
has failed to make a reasonable effort to prevent the occurrence of any of the
following on the premises of the adult oriented business, or in the case of an
adult oriented business performer, the permittee has engaged in one (1) of the
activities described below while on the premises of an adult oriented business:
         a.   Any act of unlawful sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation,
or masturbation.
         b.   Use of the establishment as a place where unlawful solicitations
for sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, or masturbation openly occur.
         c.   Any conduct constituting a criminal offense which requires
registration under section 290 of the California Penal Code.
         d.   The occurrence of acts of lewdness, assignation, or prostitution,
including any conduct constituting violations of sections 315, 316, or 318 or
subdivision b of section 647 of the California Penal Code.
         e.   Any act constituting a violation of provisions in the California
Penal Code relating to obscene matter or distribution of harmful matter to
minors, including, but not limited to, sections 311 through 313.4.
         f.   Any conduct prohibited by this article.
      3.   Failure to abide by an disciplinary action previously imposed by an
appropriate City official.
   C.   After holding the hearing in accordance with the provisions of this
section, if the City Manager or his Special Hearing Officer finds and
determines that there are grounds for disciplinary action, based upon the
severity of the violation, the Police Chief shall impose one (1) of the
following:
      1.   A warning;
      2.   Suspension of the permit for a specified period not to exceed six
(6) months;
      3.   Revocation of the permit. (Ord. 99-835; amd. Ord. 17-1022)
5-2F-11: APPEAL OF DENIAL; SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION:
After denial of an application for an adult oriented business regulatory permit
or an adult oriented business performer permit, or after denial of renewal of a
permit, or suspension or revocation of a permit, the applicant or person to
whom the permit was granted may seek review of such administrative action in
accordance with this Code.
   A.   If the denial, suspension or revocation is affirmed on review, the
applicant, permittee may seek prompt judicial review of such administrative
action pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure section 1094.5. The City
shall make all reasonable efforts to expedite judicial review, if sought by the
permittee.
   B.   The time limits set forth in subsection
5-2F-5D of this article shall prevail. (Ord. 99-835; amd. Ord. 17-1022)
5-2F-12: ADULT ORIENTED BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT AND PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
   A.   Maximum occupancy load, fire exits, aisles and fire equipment shall be
regulated, designed and provided in accordance with the Fire Department and
building regulations and standards adopted by the City of Temple City.
   B.   No adult oriented business shall be operated in any manner that permits
the observation of any material or activities depicting, describing or relating
to "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas" from any
public way or from any location outside the building or area of such
establishment. This provision shall apply to any display, decoration, sign,
show window or other opening. No exterior door or window on the premises shall
be propped or kept open at any time while the business is open, and any
exterior windows shall be covered with opaque covering at all times.
   C.   All off street parking area and premises entries of the sexually
oriented business shall be illuminated from dusk to closing hours of operation
with a lighting system which provides an average maintained horizontal
illumination of one (1) foot- candle of light on the parking surface and/or
walkways. The required lighting level is established in order to provide
sufficient illumination of the parking areas and walkways serving the sexually
oriented business for the personal safety of patrons and employees and to
reduce the incidence of vandalism and criminal conduct. The lighting shall be
shown on the required sketch or diagram of the premises.
   D.   The premises within which the adult oriented business is located shall
provide sufficient sound absorbing insulation so that noise generated inside
said premises shall not be audible anywhere on any adjacent property or public
right-of-way or within any other building or other separate unit within the
same building.
   E.   Except for those businesses also regulated by the California Department
of Alcoholic Beverage Control, an adult oriented business shall be open for
business only between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and twelve o'clock
(12:00) midnight on any particular day.
   F.   The building entrance to an adult oriented business shall be clearly
and legibly posted with a notice indicating that persons under eighteen (18)
years of age are precluded from entering the premises. Said notice shall be
constructed and posted to the satisfaction of the Community Development
Director or designee. No person under the age of eighteen (18) years shall be
permitted within the premises at any time.
   G.   All indoor areas of the adult oriented business within which patrons
are permitted, except restrooms, shall be open to view by the management at all
times.
   H.   Any adult oriented business which is also an "adult arcade", shall
comply with the following provisions:
      1.   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from a manager's station of every area of
the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose, excluding
restrooms. Restrooms may not contain video reproduction equipment. If the
premises has two (2) or more manager's stations designated, then the interior
of the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an
unobstructed view of each area of the premises to which any patron is permitted
access for any purpose from at least one (1) of the manager's stations. The
view required in this subsection must be direct line of sight from the
manager's station.
      2.   The view area specified in subsection H1 of this section shall
remain unobstructed by any doors, walls, merchandise, display racks, or other
materials at all times. No patron is permitted access to any area of the
premises which has been designated as an area in which patrons will not be
permitted.
      3.   No viewing room may be occupied by more than one (1) person at any
one time.
      4.   The walls or partitions between viewing rooms or booths shall be
maintained in good repair at all times, with no holes between any two (2) such
rooms such as would allow viewing from one (1) booth into another or such as to
allow physical contact of any kind between the occupants of any two (2) such
booths or rooms.
      5.   Customers, patrons or visitors shall not be allowed to stand idly by
in the vicinity of any such video booths, or from remaining in the common area
of such business, other than the restrooms, who are not actively engaged in
shopping for or reviewing the products available on display for purchaser
viewing. Signs prohibiting loitering shall be posted in prominent places in and
near the video booths.
      6.   The floors, seats, walls and other interior portions of all video
booths shall be maintained clean and free from waste and bodily secretions.
Presence of human excrement, urine, semen or saliva in any such booths shall be
evidence of improper maintenance and inadequate sanitary controls; repeated
instances of such conditions may justify suspension or revocation of the owner
and operator's license to conduct the adult oriented establishment.
   I.   All areas of the adult oriented business shall be illuminated at a
minimum of the following foot-candles, minimally maintained and evenly
distributed at ground level:
 
Area                        Foot-Candles
Arcades                     10
Bookstores and other retail 20
establishments
Modeling studios            20
Motels/hotels               20 (in public areas)
                            5 (except during performances, at which
Theaters and cabarets       times lighting shall be at least 1.25
                            foot-candles)
 
   J.   Adult oriented business shall provide and maintain separate restroom
facilities for male patrons and employees, and female patrons and employees.
Male patrons and employees shall be prohibited from using the restroom(s) for
females, and female patrons and employees shall be prohibited from using the
restroom(s) for males, except to carry out duties of repair, maintenance and
cleaning of the restroom facilities. The restrooms shall be free from any adult
material. Restrooms shall not contain television monitors or other motion
picture or video projection, recording or reproduction equipment. The foregoing
provisions of this subsection shall not apply to an adult oriented business
which deals exclusively with sale or rental of adult material which is not used
or consumed on the premises, such as an adult bookstore or adult video store,
and which does not provide restroom facilities to its patrons or the general
public.
   K.   The following additional requirements shall pertain to adult oriented
businesses or any other business providing live entertainment depicting
specified anatomical areas or involving specified sexual activities, except for
businesses regulated by the Alcoholic Beverage Control Commission:
      1.   No person shall perform live entertainment for patrons of an adult
oriented business except upon a stage at least eighteen inches (18") above the
level of the floor which is separated by a distance of at least ten feet (10')
from the nearest area occupied by patrons, and no patron shall be permitted
within ten feet (10') of the stage while the stage is occupied by an
entertainer. "Entertainer" shall mean any person who is an employee or
independent contractor of the adult oriented business, or any person who, with
or without any compensation or other form of consideration, performs live
entertainment for patrons of an adult oriented business.
      2.   The adult oriented business shall provide separate dressing room
facilities for entertainers which are exclusively dedicated to the
entertainers' use.
      3.   The adult oriented business shall provide an entrance/exit for
entertainers which is separate from the entrance/exit used by patrons.
      4.   The adult oriented business shall provide access for entertainers
between the stage and the dressing rooms which is completely separated from the
patrons. If such separate access is not physically feasible, the adult oriented
business shall provide a minimum three foot (3') wide walk aisle for
entertainers between the dressing room area and the stage, with a railing,
fence or other barrier separating the patrons and the entertainers capable of
(and which actually results in) preventing any physical contact between patrons
and entertainers.
      5.   No entertainer, either before, during or after performances, shall
have physical contact with any patron and no patron shall have physical contact
with any entertainer either before, during or after performances by such
entertainer. This subsection shall only apply to physical contact on the
premises of the adult oriented business.
      6.   Fixed rail(s) at least thirty inches (30") in height shall be
maintained establishing the separations between entertainers and patrons
required by this subsection.
      7.   No patron shall directly pay or give any gratuity to any entertainer
and no entertainer shall solicit any pay or gratuity from any patron.
      8.   No owner or other person with managerial control over an adult
oriented business (as that term is defined herein) shall permit any person on
the premises of the adult oriented business to engage in a live showing of the
human male or female genitals, pubic area or buttocks with less than a fully
opaque coverage, and/or the female breast with less than a fully opaque
coverage over any part of the nipple or areola and/or covered male genitals in
a discernibly turgid state. This provision may not be complied with by applying
an opaque covering simulating the appearance of the specified anatomical part
required to be covered.
   L.   Adult oriented businesses shall employ security guards in order to
maintain the public peace and safety, based upon the following standards:
      1.   Adult oriented businesses featuring live entertainment shall provide
at least one (1) security guard at all times while the business is open. If the
occupancy limit of the premises is greater than thirty five (35) persons, an
additional security guard shall be on duty.
      2.   Security guards for other adult oriented businesses may be required
if it is determined by the Police Chief that their presence is necessary in
order to prevent any of the conduct listed in subsection
5-2F-10B2 of this article from occurring on the premises.
      3.   Security guard(s) shall be charged with preventing violations of law
and enforcing compliance by patrons of the requirements of these regulations.
Security guards shall be uniformed in such a manner so as to be readily
identifiable as a security guard by the public and shall be duly licensed as a
security guard as required by applicable provisions of State law. No security
guard required pursuant to this subsection shall act as a door person, ticket
seller, ticket taker, admittance person, or sole occupant of the manager's
station while acting as a security guard.
The foregoing applicable requirements of this section shall be deemed
conditions of adult oriented business regulatory permit approvals, and failure
to comply with every such requirement shall be grounds for revocation of the
permit issued pursuant to these regulations. (Ord. 99-835; amd. Ord. 17-1022)
5-2F-13: REGISTER AND PERMIT NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES:
Every permittee of an adult oriented business which provides live entertainment
depicting specified anatomical areas or involving specified sexual activities
must maintain a register of all persons so performing on the premises and their
permit numbers. Such register shall be available for inspection during regular
business hours by any police officer or health officer of the City of Temple
City. (Ord. 99-835; amd. Ord. 17-1022)
5-2F-14: DISPLAY OF PERMIT AND IDENTIFICATION CARDS:
   A.   Every adult oriented business shall display at all times during
business hours the permit issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter for
such adult oriented business in a conspicuous place so that the same may be
readily seen by all persons entering the adult oriented business.
   B.   The City Manager shall provide each adult oriented business performer
required to have a permit pursuant to this chapter, with an identification card
containing the name, address, photograph and permit number of such performer.
   C.   An adult oriented business performer shall have such card available for
inspection at all times during which such person is on the premises of the
adult oriented business. (Ord. 99-835; amd. Ord. 17-1022)
5-2F-15: EMPLOYMENT OF AND SERVICES RENDERED TO PERSONS UNDER THE AGE OF
EIGHTEEN YEARS PROHIBITED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any permittee, operator, or other person in
charge of any adult oriented business to employ, or provide any service for
which it requires such permit, to any person who is not at least eighteen (18)
years of age.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any permittee, operator or other person in
charge of any adult oriented business to permit to enter, or remain within the
adult oriented business, any person who is not at least eighteen (18) years of
age. (Ord. 99-835; amd. Ord. 17-1022)
5-2F-16: INSPECTION:
An applicant or permittee shall permit representatives of the Sheriff's
Department, Health Department, Fire Department, Planning Division, or other
City departments or agencies to inspect the premises of an adult oriented
business for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the law and the
development and performance standards applicable to adult oriented businesses,
at any time it is occupied or opened for business. A person who operates an
adult oriented business or his or her agent or employee is in violation of the
provisions of this section if he/she refuses to permit such lawful inspection
of the premises at any time it is occupied or open for business. (Ord. 99-835;
amd. Ord. 17-1022)
5-2F-17: REGULATIONS NONEXCLUSIVE:
The provisions of this section regulating adult oriented businesses are not
intended to be exclusive and compliance therewith shall not excuse
noncompliance with any other regulations pertaining to the operation of
businesses as adopted by the City Council of the City of Temple City nor shall
it excuse the commission of a public nuisance. (Ord. 99-835; amd. Ord. 17-1022)
5-2F-18: EMPLOYMENT OF PERSONS WITHOUT PERMITS UNLAWFUL:
It shall be unlawful for any owner, operator, manager, or permittee in charge
of or in control of an adult oriented business which provides live
entertainment depicting specified anatomical areas or involving specified
sexual activities to allow any person to perform such entertainment who is not
in possession of a valid, unrevoked adult oriented business performer permit.
(Ord. 99-835; amd. Ord. 17-1022)
5-2F-19: TIME LIMIT FOR FILING APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
All persons who possess an outstanding business license heretofore issued for
the operation of an adult oriented business and all persons required by this
article to obtain an adult oriented business performer permit, must apply for
and obtain such a permit within ninety (90) days of the effective date of these
actions. Failure to do so and continued operation of an adult oriented
business, or the continued performances depicting specified anatomical areas or
specified sexual activities in an adult oriented business after such time
without a permit shall constitute a violation of this section. (Ord. 99-835;
amd. Ord. 17-1022)
5-2F-20: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase
in this article or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this article or any part thereof. The City Council
hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one (1) or more subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences,
clauses, or phrases be declared unconstitutional, or invalid, or ineffective.
(Ord. 99-835; amd. Ord. 17-1022)
5-2F-21: CALIFORNIA ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY ACT FINDING:
The City Council finds that this ordinance is enacted in order to mitigate the
threat posed to the public peace, health, or safety by adult oriented
businesses. In this regard, the findings set forth in section 1 of this
ordinance are incorporated herein by reference. This ordinance either provides
for the amendment of existing regulations applicable to adult oriented
businesses or, for the first time, provides for zoning regulations which are
specifically applicable to adult oriented business uses. Such uses are already
allowed under the City's existing zoning regulations. Therefore, it can be seen
with certainty that there is no possibility that this ordinance may have a
significant adverse effect on the environment, and therefore the adoption of
this ordinance is exempt from CEQA pursuant to section 15061(b)(3) of the CEQA
guidelines. (Ord. 99-835; amd. Ord. 17-1022)
5-2F-22: REPEAL:
All City ordinances inconsistent herewith are hereby repealed. (Ord. 99-835;
amd. Ord. 17-1022)
5-2F-23: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This article shall go into effect and be in full force and operation from and
after thirty (30) days after its final passage and adoption. (Ord. 99-835; amd.
Ord. 17-1022)
CHAPTER 3
BUSINESS TAXES
ARTICLE A. SALES TAX
SECTION:
5-3A-0: Short Title
5-3A-1: Purpose
5-3A-2: Sales Tax
5-3A-3: Place Of Sale
5-3A-4: Amendments To State Code
5-3A-5: Reference To "State"
5-3A-6: Additional Permit Not Required
5-3A-7: Exclusions And Exemptions
5-3A-8: Credit For Taxes Due To Temple City Community Redevelopment Agency
5-3A-0: SHORT TITLE:
This article shall be known as the UNIFORM LOCAL SALES AND USE TAX ORDINANCE OF
THE CITY OF TEMPLE CITY. (1960 Code)
5-3A-1: PURPOSE:
The city council of the city of Temple City hereby declares that this article
is adopted to achieve the following among other purposes, and directs that the
provisions thereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:
   A.   To adopt a sales and use tax ordinance which complies with the
requirements and limitations contained in part 1.5 of division 2 of the Revenue
And Taxation Code of the state of California.
   B.   To adopt a sales and use tax ordinance which incorporates provisions
identical to those of the sales and use tax law of the state of California
insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and
limitations contained in part 1.5 of division 2 of the said Revenue And
Taxation Code.
   C.   To adopt a sales and use tax ordinance which imposes a one percent (1%)
tax and provides a measure therefor that can be administered and collected by
the state board of equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as
practical to, and requires the least possible deviation from, the existing
statutory and administrative procedures followed by the state board of
equalization in administering and collecting the California state sales and use
taxes.
   D.   To adopt a sales and use tax ordinance which can be administered in a
manner that will, to the degree possible consistent with the provisions of part
1.5 of division 2 of the said Revenue And Taxation Code, minimize the cost of
collecting city sales and use taxes and at the same time minimize the burden of
recordkeeping upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this
ordinance. (1960 Code)
5-3A-2: SALES TAX:
For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is
hereby imposed upon all retailers in the city at the rate of one percent (1%)
of the gross receipts of the retailer from the sale of all tangible personal
property sold at retail in the city of Temple City on and after the operative
date of this article. (1960 Code)
5-3A-3: PLACE OF SALE:
For the purpose of this chapter, all retail sales are consummated at the place
of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is
delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out of state destination or to a
common carrier for delivery to an out of state destination. The gross receipts
from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges are subject
to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is
made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business, the place or
places at which the retail sales are consummated shall be determined under the
rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the board of
equalization. (1960 Code)
5-3A-4: AMENDMENTS TO STATE CODE:
Except as hereinafter provided, and except insofar as they are inconsistent
with the provisions of part 1.5 of division 2 of the said code, as amended, and
in force and effect on January 1, 1975, applicable to sales taxes are hereby
adopted and made a part of this section as though fully set forth herein. (1960
Code)
5-3A-5: REFERENCE TO "STATE":
Wherever, and to the extent that, in part 1 of division 2 of the said Revenue
And Taxation Code the state of California is named or referred to as the taxing
agency, the city of Temple City shall be substituted therefor. Nothing in this
subdivision shall be deemed to require the substitution of the name of the city
of Temple City for the word "state" when that word is used as part of the title
of the state controller, the state treasurer, the state board of control, the
state board of equalization, or the name of the state treasury, or of the
constitution of the state of California; nor shall the name of the city be
substituted for that of the state in any section when the result of that
substitution would require action to be taken by or against the city or any
agency thereof, rather than by or against the state board of equalization, in
performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of this
article; and neither shall the substitution be deemed to have been made in
those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to, sections referring
to the exterior boundaries of the state of California, where the result of the
substitution would be to provide an exemption from this tax with respect to
certain gross receipts which would not otherwise be exempt from this tax while
those gross receipts remain subject to tax by the state under the provisions of
part 1 of division 2 of the said Revenue And Taxation Code; not to impose this
tax with respect to certain gross receipts which would not be subject to tax by
the state under the said provisions of that code; and, in addition, the name of
the city shall not be substituted for that of the state in sections 6701, 6702
(except in the last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737, 6797, 6828 of said
Revenue And Taxation Code as adopted. (1960 Code)
5-3A-6: ADDITIONAL PERMIT NOT REQUIRED:
If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer under section 6068 of the
said Revenue And Taxation Code, an additional seller's permit shall not be
required by reason of this section. (1960 Code)
5-3A-7: EXCLUSIONS AND EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   The amount subject to tax shall not include any sales or use tax
imposed by the state of California upon a retailer or consumer.
   B.   The storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property,
the gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to tax under a
sales and use tax ordinance enacted in accordance with part 1.5 of division 2
of the Revenue And Taxation Code by any city and county, county, or city in
this state shall be exempt from the tax due under this chapter.
   C.   There are exempted from computation of the amount of the sales tax the
gross receipts from the sale of tangible personal property to operators of
waterborne vessels to be used or consumed principally outside the city in which
the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the carriage of persons or
property in such vessels for commercial purposes.
   D.   The storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property
purchased by operators of waterborne vessels and used or consumed by such
operators directly and exclusively in the carriage of persons or property of
such vessels for commercial purposes is exempted from the use tax.
   E.   There are exempted from the computation of the amount of the sales tax
the gross receipts from the sale of tangible personal property to operators of
aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the city in which the sale
is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common
carriers of persons or property under the authority of the laws of this state,
the United States, or any foreign government.
   F.   In addition to the exemptions provided in sections 6366 and 6366.1 of
the Revenue And Taxation Code the storage, use or other consumption of tangible
personal property purchased by operators of aircraft and used or consumed by
such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common
carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of
public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this state, the
United States, or any foreign government is exempted from the use tax. (1960
Code; amd. Ord. 83-544)
5-3A-8: CREDIT FOR TAXES DUE TO TEMPLE CITY COMMUNITY REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY:
Any person subject to a sales and use tax under the provisions of this chapter
shall be entitled to credit against the payment of taxes due under this chapter
the amount of sales and use taxes due to the Temple City community
redevelopment agency pursuant to section 7202.6 of the Revenue And Taxation
Code. In the event that the Temple City community redevelopment agency issues
obligations secured in whole or in part by taxes levied pursuant to the
provisions of section 7202.6 of the Revenue And Taxation Code, the city shall
not revoke this credit in whole or in part, nor shall it reduce its sales and
use tax rate, so long as such obligations are outstanding. (Ord. 93-757)
ARTICLE B. USE TAX
SECTION:
5-3B-0: Excise Tax Imposed
5-3B-1: Adoption Of State Code
5-3B-2: Reference To "State"
5-3B-3: Exclusions From Excise Tax
5-3B-4: Amendments To State Code
5-3B-5: Enjoining Collection Forbidden
5-3B-0: EXCISE TAX IMPOSED:
An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in the
city of Temple City of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer
on or after the operative date of this article, for storage, use or other
consumption in the city at the rate of one percent (1%) of the sales price of
the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges when such charges
are subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery
is made. (1960 Code, as amended)
5-3B-1: ADOPTION OF STATE CODE:
Except as hereinafter provided, and except insofar as they are inconsistent
with the provisions of part 1.5 of division 2 of said Revenue And Taxation
Code, all of the provisions of part 1 of division 2 of said code, as amended
and in force and effect on January 1, 1975, applicable to use taxes are hereby
adopted and made a part of this section as though fully set forth herein. (1960
Code, as amended)
5-3B-2: REFERENCE TO "STATE":
Whenever, and to the extent that, in part 1 of division 2 of the said Revenue
And Taxation Code the state of California is named or referred to as the taxing
agency, the city of Temple City shall be substituted therefor. Nothing in this
subdivision shall be deemed to require the substitution of the name of the city
of Temple City for the word "state" when that word issued as part of the title
of state controller, the state treasurer, the state board of control, the state
board of equalization, or the name of the state treasury, or of the
constitution of the state of California, nor shall the name of the city be
substituted for that of the state in any section when the result of that
substitution would require action to be taken by or against the city or any
agency thereof rather than by or against the state board of equalization, in
performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of this
article; and neither shall the substitution be deemed to have been made in
those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to, sections referring
to the exterior boundaries of the state of California, where the result of the
substitution would be to provide an exemption from this tax with respect to
certain storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which
would not otherwise be exempt from this tax while such storage, use or other
consumption remains subject to tax by the state under the provisions of part 1
of division 2 of the said Revenue And Taxation Code, or to impose this tax with
respect to certain storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal
property which would not be subject to tax by the state under the said
provisions of that code; and in addition, the name of the city shall not be
substituted for that of the state in sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last
sentence thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 and 6828 of the said Revenue And
Taxation Code as adopted, and the name of the city shall not be substituted for
the word "state" in the phrase "retailer engaged in business in this state" in
section 6203 nor in the definition of that phrase in section 6203. (1960 Code,
as amended)
5-3B-3: EXCLUSIONS FROM EXCISE TAX:
There shall be exempt from the tax due under this section:
   A.   The amount of any sales or use tax imposed by the state of California
upon a retailer or consumer;
   B.   The storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property,
the gross receipts from the sale of which has been subject to sales tax under a
sales and use tax ordinance enacted in accordance with part 1.5 of division 2
of the Revenue And Taxation Code by any city and county, county, or city in
this state;
   C.   The storage or use of tangible personal property in the transportation
or transmission of persons, property or communications, or in the generation,
transmission or distribution of electricity or in the manufacture, transmission
or distribution of gas in intrastate, interstate or foreign commerce by public
utilities which are regulated by the public utilities commission of the state
of California;
   D.   The use of consumption of property purchased by operators of common
carriers and waterborne vessels to be used or consumed in the operation of such
common carriers or waterborne vessels principally outside the city. (1960 Code,
as amended)
5-3B-4: AMENDMENTS TO STATE CODE:
All amendments of the said Revenue And Taxation Code enacted subsequent to the
effective date of this article which relate to the sales and use tax and which
are not inconsistent with part 1.5 of division 2 of the said Revenue And
Taxation Code shall automatically become a part of this article. (1960 Code, as
amended)
5-3B-5: ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN:
No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall
issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the state or this
city, or against any officer of the state or this city, to prevent or enjoin
the collection under this article, or part 1.5 of division 2 of the Revenue And
Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected. (1960
Code, as amended)
ARTICLE C. DOCUMENTARY STAMP TAX ON SALE OF REAL PROPERTY
SECTION:
5-3C-0: Adoption
5-3C-1: Application Of Tax
5-3C-2: Payment Of Tax
5-3C-3: Inapplicable To Debt Instrument
5-3C-4: Inapplicable To Federal Government
5-3C-5: Exclusions
5-3C-6: Inapplicable To SEC Transfers
5-3C-7: Partnership Property
5-3C-8: Termination Of Partnership
5-3C-9: No Duplication Of Tax
5-3C-10: Enforcement
5-3C-11: Refunds
5-3C-0: ADOPTION:
This article shall be known as the REAL PROPERTY TRANSFER TAX ORDINANCE OF THE
CITY OF TEMPLE CITY. It is adopted pursuant to the authority contained in part
6.7 (commencing with section 11901) of division 2 of the Revenue And Taxation
Code of the state of California. (1960 Code)
5-3C-1: APPLICATION OF TAX:
There is hereby imposed on each deed, instrument or writing by which any lands,
tenements, or other realty sold within the city of Temple City shall be
granted, assigned, transferred or otherwise conveyed to, or vested in, the
purchaser or purchasers, or any other person or persons, by his or their
direction, when the consideration or value of the interest or property conveyed
(exclusive of the value of any lien or encumbrances remaining thereon at the
time of sale) exceeds one hundred dollars ($100.00), a tax at the rate of
twenty seven and one-half cents ($0.275) for each five hundred dollars
($500.00) or fractional part thereof. (1960 Code)
5-3C-2: PAYMENT OF TAX:
Any tax imposed pursuant to these sections shall be paid by any person who
makes, signs or issued any document or instrument subject to the tax, or for
whose use or benefit the same is made, signed or issued. (1960 Code)
5-3C-3: INAPPLICABLE TO DEBT INSTRUMENT:
Any tax imposed pursuant to this article shall not apply to any instrument in
writing given to secure a debt. (1960 Code)
5-3C-4: INAPPLICABLE TO FEDERAL GOVERNMENT:
The United States or any agency or instrumentality thereof, any state or
territory, or political subdivision thereof, or the District Of Columbia shall
not be liable for any tax imposed pursuant to this article with respect to any
deed, instrument or writing to which it is a party, but the tax may be
collected by assessment from any party liable therefor. (1960 Code)
5-3C-5: EXCLUSIONS:
Any tax imposed pursuant to this article shall not apply to the making,
delivering or filing of conveyance to make effective any plan or reorganization
or adjust which is:
   A.   Confirmed under the federal bankruptcy act, as amended;
   B.   Approved in an equity receivership proceeding in a court involving a
railroad corporation, as defined in subdivision (m) of section 205 of title 11
of the United States Code, as amended;
   C.   Approved in an equity receivership proceeding in a court involving a
corporation, as defined in subdivision (3) of section 506 of title 11 of the
United States Code, as amended; or
   D.   A mere change in identity, form or place of organization is effected.
Subsections A to D, inclusive, of this section shall only apply if the making,
delivery or filing of instruments of transfer or conveyances occurs within five
(5) years from the date of such confirmation, approval or change. (1960 Code)
5-3C-6: INAPPLICABLE TO SEC TRANSFERS:
Any tax imposed pursuant to this article shall not apply to the making or
delivery of conveyances to make effective any order of the securities and
exchange commission, as defined in subdivision (a) of section 1083 of the
internal revenue code of 1954; but only if:
   A.   The order of the securities and exchange commission in obedience to
which such conveyance is made recites that such conveyance is necessary or
appropriate to effectuate the provisions of section 79K of title 15 of the
United States Code, relating to the public utility holding company act of 1935;
   B.   Such order specifies the property which is ordered to be conveyed;
   C.   Such conveyance is made in obedience to such order. (1960 Code)
5-3C-7: PARTNERSHIP PROPERTY:
In the case of any realty held by a partnership, no levy shall be imposed
pursuant to this article by reason of any transfer of an interest in a
partnership, or otherwise, if:
   A.   Such partnership (or another partnership) is considered a continuing
partnership within the meaning of section 708 of the internal revenue code of
1954; and
   B.   Such continuing partnership continues to hold the realty concerned.
(1960 Code)
5-3C-8: TERMINATION OF PARTNERSHIP:
If there is a termination of any partnership within the meaning of section 708
of the internal revenue code of 1954, for purposes of this article, such
partnership shall be treated as having executed an instrument whereby there was
conveyed, for fair market value (exclusive of the value of any lien or
encumbrance remaining thereon), all realty held by such partnership at the time
of such termination. (1960 Code)
5-3C-9: NO DUPLICATION OF TAX:
Not more than one tax shall be imposed pursuant to this article by reason of a
termination described in section
5-3C-8 of this article and any transfer pursuant thereto with respect to the
realty held by such partnership at the time of such termination. (1960 Code)
5-3C-10: ENFORCEMENT:
The county recorder shall administer this article in conformity with the
provisions of part 6.7 of division 2 of the Revenue And Taxation Code and the
provisions of any county ordinance adopted pursuant thereto. (1960 Code)
5-3C-11: REFUNDS:
Claims for refund of taxes imposed pursuant to this article shall be governed
by the provisions of chapter 5 (commencing with section 5096) of part 9 of
division 1 of the Revenue And Taxation Code of the state of California. (1960
Code)
ARTICLE D. TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX
SECTION:
5-3D-0: Title
5-3D-1: Definitions
5-3D-2: Tax Imposed
5-3D-3: Exemptions
5-3D-4: Operator's Duties
5-3D-5: Registration
5-3D-6: Reporting And Remitting
5-3D-7: Penalties And Interest
5-3D-8: Failure To Collect And Report Tax; Determination Of Tax By Tax
Administrator
5-3D-9: Appeal
5-3D-10: Records
5-3D-11: Refunds
5-3D-12: Actions To Collect
5-3D-13: Violations, Misdemeanor
5-3D-14: Severability
5-3D-0: TITLE:
This article shall be known as the UNIFORM TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX ORDINANCE OF
THE CITY OF TEMPLE CITY. (1960 Code)
5-3D-1: DEFINITIONS:
Except where the context otherwise requires, the definitions given in this
section govern the construction of this article:
   HOTEL: Any structure, or any portion of any structure, which is occupied or
intended or designed for occupancy by transients for dwelling, lodging or
sleeping purposes, and includes any hotel, inn, tourist home or house, rooming
house, apartment house, dormitory, public or private club, mobilehome or house
trailer at a fixed location or other similar structure or portion thereof.
   OCCUPANCY: The use or possession, or the right to the use or possession of
any room or rooms or portion thereof, in any hotel for dwelling, lodging or
sleeping purposes.
   OPERATOR: The person who is proprietor of the hotel, whether in the capacity
of owner, lessee, sublessee, mortgagee in possession, licensee, or any other
capacity. Where the operator performs his functions through a managing agent of
any type or character other than an employee, the managing agent shall also be
deemed an operator for the purposes of this article and shall have the same
duties and liabilities as his principal. Compliance with the provisions of this
article by either the principal or the managing agent shall, however, be
considered to be compliance by both.
   PERSON: Any individual firm, partnership, joint venture, association, social
club, fraternal organization, joint stock company, corporation, estate, trust,
business trust, receiver, trustee, syndicate or any other group or combination
acting as a unit.
   RENT: The consideration charged, whether or not received, for the occupancy
of space in a hotel valued in money, whether to be received in money, goods,
labor or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits and property and
services of any kind or nature, without any deduction therefrom whatsoever.
   TAX ADMINISTRATOR: The city treasurer of the city of Temple City.
   TRANSIENT: Any person who exercises occupancy or is entitled to occupancy by
reason of concession, permit, right of access, license or other agreement for a
period of thirty (30) consecutive calendar days or less, counting portions of
calendar days as full days. Any such person so occupying space in a hotel shall
be deemed to be a transient until the period of thirty (30) days has expired
unless there is an agreement in writing between the operator and the occupant
providing for a longer period of occupancy. In determining whether a person is
a transient, uninterrupted periods of time extending both prior and subsequent
to the effective date of this article may be considered. (1960 Code; amd. Ord.
89-658)
5-3D-2: TAX IMPOSED:
For the privilege of occupancy in any motel, hotel, each transient is subject
to and shall pay tax in the amount of ten percent (10%) of the rent charged by
the operator. Said tax constitutes a debt owed by the transient to the city
which is extinguished only by payment to the operator or to the city. The
transient shall pay the tax to the operator of the motel or hotel at the time
the rent is paid. If the rent is paid in installments, a proportionate share of
the tax shall be paid with each installment. The unpaid tax shall be due upon
the transient's ceasing to occupy space in the motel or hotel. If for any
reason the tax due is not paid to the operator of the motel or hotel, the tax
administrator may require that such tax shall be paid directly to the tax
administrator. (1960 Code; amd. Ord. 91-707)
5-3D-3: EXEMPTIONS:
No tax shall be imposed upon:
   A.   Any person as to whom, or any occupancy as to which, it is beyond the
power of the city to impose the tax herein provided;
   B.   Any federal or state of California officer or employee when on official
business;
   C.   Any officer or employee of a foreign government who is exempt by reason
of express provision of federal law or international treaty.
No exemption shall be granted except upon a claim therefor made at the time
rent is collected and under penalty of perjury upon a form prescribed by the
tax administrator. (1960 Code)
5-3D-4: OPERATOR'S DUTIES:
Each operator shall collect the tax imposed by this article to the same extent
and at the same time as the rent is collected from every transient. The amount
of the tax shall be separately stated from the amount of the rent charged, and
each transient shall receive a receipt for payment from the operator. No
operator of a hotel shall advertise or state in any manner, whether directly or
indirectly, that the tax or any part thereof will be assumed or absorbed by the
operator, or that it will not be added to the rent, or that, if added, any part
will be refunded except in the manner hereinafter provided. (1960 Code)
5-3D-5: REGISTRATION:
Within thirty (30) days after the effective date of this article, or within
thirty (30) days after commencing business, whichever is later, each operator
of any hotel renting occupancy to transients shall register said hotel with the
tax administrator and obtain from him a "transient occupancy registration
certificate" to be at all times posted in a conspicuous place on the premises.
Said certificate shall, among other things, state the following:
   A.   The name of the operator;
   B.   The address of the hotel;
   C.   The date upon which the certificate was issued;
   D.      This Transient Occupancy Registration Certificate signifies that the
person named on the face hereof has fulfilled the requirements of the Uniform
Transient Occupancy Tax Ordinance by registering with the Tax Administrator for
the purpose of collecting from transients the Transient Occupancy Tax and
remitting said tax to the Tax Administrator. This certificate does not
authorize any person to conduct any lawful business in an unlawful manner, nor
to operate a hotel without strictly complying with all local applicable laws,
including but not limited to those requiring a permit from any board,
commission, department or office of this City. This Certificate does not
constitute a permit.
(1960 Code)
5-3D-6: REPORTING AND REMITTING:
Each operator shall, on or before the last day of the month following the close
of each calendar quarter, or at the close of any shorter reporting period which
may be established by the tax administrator, make a return to the tax
administrator, on forms provided by him, of the total rents charged and
received and the amount of tax collected for transient occupancies. At the time
the return is filed, the full amount of the tax collected shall be remitted to
the tax administrator. The tax administrator may establish shorter reporting
periods for any certificate holder if he deems it necessary in order to insure
collection of the tax and he may require further information in the return.
Returns and payments are due immediately upon cessation of business for any
reason. All taxes collected by operator pursuant to this article shall be held
in trust for the account of the city until payment thereof is made to the tax
administrator. (1960 Code)
5-3D-7: PENALTIES AND INTEREST:
   A.   Original Delinquency: Any operator who fails to remit any tax imposed
by this article within the time required shall pay a penalty of ten percent
(10%) of the amount of the tax in addition to the amount of the tax.
   B.   Continued Delinquency: Any operator who fails to remit any delinquent
remittance on or before a period of thirty (30) days following the date on
which the remittance first became delinquent shall pay a second delinquency
penalty of ten percent (10%) of the amount of the tax in addition to the amount
of the tax and the ten percent (10%) penalty first imposed.
   C.   Fraud: If the tax administrator determines that the nonpayment of any
remittance due under this article is due to fraud, a penalty of twenty five
percent (25%) of the amount of the tax shall be added thereto in addition to
the penalties stated in subsections A and B of this section.
   D.   Interest: In addition to the penalties imposed, any operator who fails
to remit any tax imposed by this article shall pay interest at the rate of one-
half of one percent (0.05%) per month or fraction thereof on the amount of the
tax, exclusive of penalties, from the date on which the remittance first became
delinquent until paid.
   E.   Penalties Merged With Tax: Every penalty imposed and such interest as
accrues under the provisions of this section shall become a part of the tax
herein required to be paid. (1960 Code)
5-3D-8: FAILURE TO COLLECT AND REPORT TAX; DETERMINATION OF TAX BY TAX
ADMINISTRATOR:
If any operator shall fail or refuse to collect said tax and to make, within
the time provided in this article, any report and remittance of said tax or any
portion thereof required by this article, the tax administrator shall proceed
in such manner as he may deem best to obtain facts and information on which to
base his estimate of the tax due. As soon as the tax administrator shall
procure such facts and information as he is able to obtain upon which to base
the assessment of any tax imposed by this article and payable by any operator
who has failed or refused to collect the same and to make such report and
remittance, he shall proceed to determine and assess against such operator the
tax, interest and penalties provided for by this article. In case such
determination is made, the tax administrator shall give a notice of the amount
so assessed by serving it personally or be depositing it in the United States
mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the operator so assessed at this last known
place of address. Such operator may within ten (10) days after the serving or
mailing of such notice make application in writing to the tax administrator for
a hearing on the amount assessed. If application by the operator for a hearing
is not made within the time prescribed, the tax, interest and penalties, if
any, determined by the tax administrator shall become final and conclusive and
immediately due and payable. If such application is made, the tax administrator
shall give not less than five (5) days' written notice in the manner prescribed
herein to the operator to show cause at a time and place fixed in said notice
why said amount specified therein should not be fixed for such tax, interest
and penalties. At such hearing, the operator may appear and offer evidence why
such specified tax, interest and penalties should not be so fixed. After such
hearing the tax administrator shall determine the proper tax to be remitted and
shall thereafter give written notice to the person in the manner prescribed
herein of such determination and the amount of such tax, interest and
penalties. The amount determined to be due shall be payable after fifteen (15)
days unless an appeal is taken as provided in section
5-3D-9 of this article. (1960 Code)
5-3D-9: APPEAL:
Any operator aggrieved by any decision of the tax administrator with respect to
the amount of such tax, interest and penalties, if any, may appeal to the city
council by filing a notice of appeal with the city clerk within fifteen (15)
days of the serving or mailing of the determination of the tax due. The council
shall fix a time and place for hearing such appeal, and the city clerk shall
give notice in writing to such operator at his last known place of address. The
findings of the council shall be final and conclusive and shall be served upon
the appellant in the manner prescribed above for service of notice of hearing.
Any amount found to be due shall be immediately due and payable upon the
service of notice. (1960 Code)
5-3D-10: RECORDS:
It shall be the duty of every operator liable for the collection and payment to
the city of any tax imposed by this article to keep and preserve, for a period
of three (3) years, all records as may be necessary to determine the amount of
such tax as he may have been liable for the collection of and payment to the
city, which records the tax administrator shall have the right to inspect at
all reasonable times. (1960 Code)
5-3D-11: REFUNDS:
   A.   Whenever the amount of any tax, interest or penalty has been overpaid
or paid more than once or has been erroneously or illegally collected or
received by the city under this article, it may be refunded as provided in
subsections B and C of this section provided a claim in writing therefor,
stating under penalty of perjury the specific grounds upon which the claim is
founded, is filed with the tax administrator within three (3) years of the date
of payment. The claim shall be on forms furnished by the tax administrator.
   B.   An operator may claim a refund or take as credit against taxes
collected and remitted the amount overpaid, paid more than once or erroneously
or illegally collected or received when it is established in a manner
prescribed by the tax administrator that the person from whom the tax has been
collected was not a transient; provided, however, that neither a refund nor a
credit shall be allowed unless the amount of the tax so collected has either
been refunded to the transient or credited to rent subsequently payable by the
transient by the operator.
   C.   A transient may obtain a refund of taxes overpaid or paid more than
once or erroneously or illegally collected or received by the city by filing a
claim in the manner provided in subsection A of this section, but only when the
tax was paid by the transient directly to the tax administrator, or when the
transient having paid the tax to the operator, establishes to the satisfaction
of the tax administrator that the transient has been unable to obtain a refund
from the operator who collected the tax.
   D.   No refund shall be paid under the provisions of this section unless the
claimant establishes his right thereto by written records showing entitlement
thereto. (1960 Code)
5-3D-12: ACTIONS TO COLLECT:
Any tax required to be paid by any transient under the provisions of this
article shall be deemed a debt owed by the transient to the city. Any such tax
collected by an operator which has not been paid to the city shall be deemed a
debt owned by the operator to the city. Any person owing money to the city
under the provisions of this chapter shall be liable to an action brought in
the name of the city of Temple City for the recovery of such amount. (1960
Code)
5-3D-13: VIOLATIONS, MISDEMEANOR:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be punishable therefor by a fine of not more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00) or by imprisonment in the county jail for a period of
not more than six (6) months or by both such fine and imprisonment.
Any operator or other person who fails or refuses to register as required
herein, or to furnish any return required to be made, or who fails or refuses
to furnish a supplemental return or other data required by the tax
administrator, or who renders a false or fraudulent return or claim, is guilty
of a misdemeanor, and is punishable as aforesaid. Any person required to make,
render, sign or verify any report or claim with intent to defeat or evade the
determination of any amount due required by this article to be made, is guilty
of a misdemeanor and is punishable as aforesaid. (1960 Code)
5-3D-14: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this article or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portions of this chapter or any part thereof. The city council hereby declares
that it would have passed each section, subsection, subdivisions, paragraph,
sentence, clause or phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or
more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or
phrases be declared unconstitutional. (1960 Code)
ARTICLE E. MOBILE SOURCE AIR POLLUTION REDUCTION
SECTION:
5-3E-0: Title
5-3E-1: Intent
5-3E-2: Definitions
5-3E-3: Administration Of Vehicle Registration Fee
5-3E-0: TITLE:
This article shall be known as the MOBILE SOURCE AIR POLLUTION REDUCTION
ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF TEMPLE CITY. (1960 Code)
5-3E-1: INTENT:
This article is intended to support the SCAQMD's imposition of the vehicle
registration fee and to bring the city into compliance with the requirements
set forth in section 44243 of the Health And Safety Code in order to receive
fee revenues for the purpose of implementing programs to reduce air pollution
from motor vehicles. (1960 Code)
5-3E-2: DEFINITIONS:
Except where the context otherwise requires, the definitions given in this
section govern the construction of this article:
   CITY: The city of Temple City.
   FEE ADMINISTRATOR: The finance director of the city or his/her designee.
   MOBILE SOURCE AIR POLLUTION REDUCTION PROGRAMS: Any program or project
implemented by the city to reduce air pollution from motor vehicles which it
determines will be consistent with the California clean air act of 1988 or the
plan proposed pursuant to article 5 (commencing with 40460) of chapter 5.5 of
part 3 of the California Health And Safety Code. (1960 Code)
5-3E-3: ADMINISTRATION OF VEHICLE REGISTRATION FEE:
   A.   Receipt Of Fee: The additional vehicle registration fees disbursed by
the SCAQMD and remitted to the city, pursuant to this article, shall be
accepted by the fee administrator.
   B.   Establishment Of Air Quality Improvement Trust Fund: The fee
administrator shall establish a separate interest bearing trust fund account in
a financial institution authorized to receive deposits of city funds.
   C.   Transfer Of Funds: Upon receipt of vehicle registration fees, the fee
administrator shall deposit such funds into the separate account established
pursuant to section
5-3E-1 of this article. All interest earned by the trust fund account shall be
credited only to that account.
   D.   Expenditure Of Air Quality Trust Fund Revenues: All revenues received
from the SCAQMD and deposited in the trust fund account shall be exclusively
expended on mobile source emission reduction programs as defined in section
5-3E-2 of this article. Such revenues and any interest earned on the revenues
shall be expended within one year of the completion of the programs.
   E.   Audits: The city consents to an audit of all programs and projects
funded by vehicle registration fee revenues received from the SCAQMD pursuant
to section 44223 of the Health And Safety Code. The audit shall be conducted by
an independent auditor selected by the SCAQMD as provided in sections 44244 and
44244.1(a) of the Health And Safety Code. (1960 Code)
TITLE 6
PUBLIC HIGHWAYS, SEWER AND UTILITIES
CHAPTER 1
PUBLIC HIGHWAYS
ARTICLE A. ADOPTION OF CODE
SECTION:
6-1A-0: Adoption Of Code
6-1A-1: Copies On File
6-1A-2: Terms Used
6-1A-3: Fees
6-1A-0: ADOPTION OF CODE:
Except as hereinafter provided, that certain highway permit ordinance known and
designated as the Los Angeles County highway permit ordinance as contained in
ordinances 3597 and 9879 of the county of Los Angeles and including all
amendments and supplements enacted and in effect on or before December 7, 1979,
shall be and become the highway permit ordinance of the city of Temple City
which regulates streets and highways and provides for permits for the moving of
buildings and the making of excavations in public streets and the laying,
constructing and repairing of curbs and sidewalks. (1960 Code, as amended)
6-1A-1: COPIES ON FILE:
Three (3) copies of ordinances 3597 and 9879, as amended, of the county of Los
Angeles, are on deposit in the office of the city clerk and shall be at all
times maintained by said city clerk for use and examination by the public.
(1960 Code, as amended)
6-1A-2: TERMS USED:
Whenever any of the following names or terms are used in said ordinances, each
such name or term shall be deemed and construed to have the meaning ascribed to
it in this section as follows:
   COUNTY, COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES OR UNINCORPORATED AREA: The city of Temple
City.
   SUPERINTENDENT OF STREETS: The road commissioner of the county of Los
Angeles or such other person as may be appointed to act in such capacity by the
city council of the city of Temple City from time to time by resolution or
minute order. (1960 Code, as amended)
6-1A-3: FEES:
The fees payable for permits pursuant to ordinance 3597, as amended, of the
county of Los Angeles, shall be from time to time adopted by resolution. (Ord.
77-451)
ARTICLE B. OBSTRUCTION ABATEMENT
SECTION:
Part 1. Corner Properties
6-1B-0: Short Title
6-1B-1: Contents
6-1B-2: Obstructions Prohibited
6-1B-3: Exceptions
6-1B-4: Investigation
6-1B-5: Appeals
6-1B-6: Remedies
Part 2. Intersections
6-1B-20: Obstructions Between Intersections
6-1B-21: Obstructions Prohibited
6-1B-22: Gutter And Edge Of Roadway Defined
6-1B-23: Exceptions
6-1B-24: Investigation
6-1B-25: Appeals
6-1B-26: Remedies
PART 1. CORNER PROPERTIES
6-1B-0: SHORT TITLE:
This article shall be known as the OBSTRUCTION ABATEMENT CODE. (1960 Code)
6-1B-1: CONTENTS:
This article embraces only obstructions to visibility which unreasonably or
substantially interfere with such visibility in areas covered by this article.
(1960 Code)
6-1B-2: OBSTRUCTIONS PROHIBITED:
On property at any corner formed by intersecting streets it shall be unlawful
to install, set out or maintain or to allow the installation, setting out or
maintenance of any sign, hedge, shrubbery, natural growth or other obstruction
to the view higher than forty inches (40") above the reference point located
at:
   A.   The point of intersection with the prolongation of the curb lines; or
in the absence of such; or
   B.   The point of intersection of the prolongation of the edge of the paved
roadway;
within the triangular area between the curb or edge of the paved roadway lines
and a diagonal line joining points on the curb or edge of paved roadway lines
forty feet (40') from the point of their intersection or in the case of rounded
corners, the triangular area included between the reference point and the curb
line or edge of paved roadway line forty feet (40') from the point of
intersection. (1960 Code)
6-1B-3: EXCEPTIONS:
The foregoing provision shall not apply to permanent buildings, public utility
poles, young saplings or trees trimmed (to the trunk) to a line at least six
feet (6') above the level of the reference point as defined in section
6-1B-2 of this article, official traffic signs or to places where the natural
contour of the ground is such that there can be no crossing visibility at the
intersection. (1960 Code)
6-1B-4: INVESTIGATION:
The enforcement of this part shall be under the direction of the city manager,
as follows:
   A.   The city manager shall cause alleged violations of this code to be
investigated forthwith;
   B.   The city manager shall review these findings within thirty (30) days
and either authorize the sheriff of Los Angeles County to post such notice as
is hereinafter set forth and perform such other duties to enforce this code as
are necessary or shall notify the said sheriff in writing, that no abatement is
necessary. (1960 Code)
6-1B-5: APPEALS:
The owner of such posted property may appeal to the traffic commission of the
city and show cause why said work should not be done or why the time therefor
should be extended. Such appeal shall be in writing and shall be filed with the
city clerk of the city within ten (10) days from the date of posting notice.
The said traffic commission shall hear and pass upon such appeal, and its
determination thereon shall be final except for an appeal that may be filed
with the city council within ten (10) days of the date of the mailing of the
traffic commission's decision. (1960 Code)
6-1B-6: REMEDIES:
Any obstruction maintained in violation of this article shall be deemed
nuisance and upon failure to abate the same within twenty (20) days after the
posting upon the premises of notice to abate the nuisance, the city manager or
his authorized agent may enter upon the premises and remove or eliminate the
obstruction. In such event, the cost to the city of the abatement of the
nuisance shall be a lien upon the premises provided a claim therefor be filed
within the time and in the manner as prescribed in sections 3093, 3097, 3115
and 3118 of the Civil Code of the state of California. The cost of such
abatement shall, in addition, be a personal obligation against the owner of the
premises upon which the nuisance was maintained, recoverable by the city in an
action before any court of competent jurisdiction. (1960 Code)
PART 2. INTERSECTIONS
6-1B-20: OBSTRUCTIONS BETWEEN INTERSECTIONS:
Obstructions to visibility at edge of roadway between intersecting streets
which unreasonably or substantially interfere with the safety of pedestrian
movements and/or vehicular movements are hereby declared to be matters of
public safety and subject to regulation under the police power of the city.
(1960 Code)
6-1B-21: OBSTRUCTIONS PROHIBITED:
There shall not be maintained upon any property facing any public street any
sign, hedge, shrubbery, natural growth or other obstruction to the view, higher
than forty inches (40") above the gutter (or if there be no gutter, the edge of
the roadway) within a distance of ten feet (10') from the edge of the gutter or
roadway as hereinafter defined. (1960 Code)
6-1B-22: GUTTER AND EDGE OF ROADWAY DEFINED:
   EDGE OF ROADWAY: The average edge of the paved roadway existing in front of
any parcel of property.
   GUTTER: The bottom of the curb at the juncture of the curb and gutter. (1960
Code)
6-1B-23: EXCEPTIONS:
The foregoing provisions shall not apply to permanent buildings, public utility
poles, young saplings or trees trimmed (to the trunk) to a line at least six
feet (6') above the level of the reference point as defined in section
6-1B-22 of this article, or to places where the natural contour of the ground
is such that there can be no cross visibility at the midblock location. (1960
Code)
6-1B-24: INVESTIGATION:
The enforcement of sections
6-1B-20 through
6-1B-26 of this article shall be under the direction of the city manager.
   A.   The city manager shall cause alleged violations of this code to be
investigated forthwith.
   B.   The city manager or his authorized agent shall review these findings
within thirty (30) days and either authorize the sheriff of Los Angeles County
to post such notice as is hereinafter set forth and perform such other duties
to enforce this code as are necessary or shall notify the said sheriff, in
writing, that no abatement is necessary. (1960 Code)
6-1B-25: APPEALS:
The owner of such posted property may appeal to the traffic commission of the
city and show cause why such work should not be done or why the time therefor
should be extended. Such appeal shall be in writing and shall be filed with the
city clerk of the city within ten (10) days from the date of posting notice.
The said traffic commission shall hear and pass upon such appeal, and its
determination thereon shall be final except for an appeal that may be filed
with the city council within ten (10) days of the date of the mailing of the
traffic commission's decision. (1960 Code)
6-1B-26: REMEDIES:
Any obstruction maintained in violation of this article shall be deemed a
nuisance and upon failure to abate the same within twenty (20) days after the
posting upon the premises of the notice to abate the nuisance the city manager
or his authorized agent may enter upon the premises and remove or eliminate the
obstruction. In such event, the cost to the city of the abatement of the
nuisance shall be a lien upon the premises provided a claim therefor be filed
within the time and in the manner as prescribed in sections 3093, 3097, 3115
and 3118 of the Civil Code of the state of California. The cost of such
abatement, shall in addition, be a personal obligation against the owner of the
premises upon which the nuisance was maintained, recoverable by the city in an
action before any court of competent jurisdiction. (1960 Code)
ARTICLE C. STREET CUTTING MORATORIUM
SECTION:
6-1C-0: Moratorium On Cutting Recently Resurfaced Streets
6-1C-1: Exceptions To Moratorium
6-1C-0: MORATORIUM ON CUTTING RECENTLY RESURFACED STREETS:
   A.   No person or entity shall cut, trench, or otherwise disturb or open the
surface of a public street or alley without first obtaining a permit from the
City.
   B.   The City shall not issue a permit to cut, trench, or otherwise disturb
or open the surface of a public street or alley that is subject to a moratorium
pursuant to subsection C of this section, unless the City Engineer grants an
exception pursuant to section
6-1C-1 of this article.
   C.   A moratorium is imposed on the following:
      1.   Public streets and alleys that have been paved, constructed,
reconstructed, or overlaid to an extent covering at least half the width of the
street or alley within the past five (5) years; and
      2.   Public streets and alleys that have been resurfaced with slurry
seal, chip seal, micro surfacing, or other surface seal to an extent covering
at least half the width of the street within the past three (3) years. (Ord.
18-1031)
6-1C-1: EXCEPTIONS TO MORATORIUM:
   A.   The City Engineer is authorized to grant an exception to allow a permit
to be issued for a street that is subject to a moratorium pursuant to section
6-1C-0 of this article for the following circumstances:
      1.   Emergency repairs deemed necessary to protect life or property;
      2.   Emergency repairs deemed necessary to prevent interruption of
utility service;
      3.   Work that is mandated by City, State, or Federal legislation;
      4.   Work that is necessary to provide utility service to a property,
including when necessary to facilitate the development or redevelopment of the
property, and where there is no other reasonable means of providing service; or
      5.   Other work as deemed necessary by the City Engineer.
   B.   When granting an exception to a moratorium, the City Engineer may
impose conditions upon the permit as deemed necessary and appropriate to return
the street or alley to its pre-work condition. Such conditions may include the
following:
      1.   Requiring the method of resurfacing best suited to restore the
surface to its pre-work condition, which may include surface grinding and base
and sub-base repairs;
      2.   Requiring resurfacing to be extended beyond the width of the work
area, up to and including a full lane width, half-street width, or full street
width depending on the area and nature of the work;
      3.   Requiring resurfacing to be extended beyond the length of the work
area up to the width of one or multiple properties, half block length, or full
block length depending on the area and nature of the work;
      4.   Considering multiple individual cuts as one larger combined cut for
the purpose of determining the area to be resurfaced;
      5.   Requiring full restoration of striping and monuments in the
resurfaced area;
      6.   Requiring manhole and valve cover adjustments in the resurfaced
area;
      7.   Requiring the working party to bear the full cost of plan review,
construction inspection, material testing, bonding, and all other expenses
related to the work;
      8.   Requiring a delay in the resurfacing work if deemed necessary due to
weather or other conditions; and/or
      9.   Requiring other work as deemed necessary to establish the optimal
limits of resurfacing work in furtherance of the following goals: minimizing
pavement degradation, maintaining the structural integrity of the street,
maintaining a smooth riding surface for all transportation modes, and limiting
the visual impact of work and maintaining public perception of street
condition. (Ord. 18-1031)
CHAPTER 2
SEWERS AND WASTE
ARTICLE A. ADOPTION OF CODE
SECTION:
6-2A-0: Adoption Of Code
6-2A-1: Copies On File
6-2A-2: Reference To Unincorporated Area
6-2A-3: Terms
6-2A-4: Amendment Of County Code
6-2A-5: County Permits
6-2A-0: ADOPTION OF CODE:
Except as hereinafter provided, that certain code known and designated as the
Los Angeles County code, title 20, utilities, division 2, sanitary sewers and
industrial waste as amended, except as herein provided, shall be and become the
sanitary sewer and industrial waste ordinance of the city of Temple City
providing for the issuance of permits and the collection of fees therefor and
providing penalties for violation of such code.
The fees for the issuance of industrial waste permits shall be the same as
those established by the county of Los Angeles in title 20, utilities, division
2, sanitary sewer and industrial waste ordinance and any subsequent amendments,
modifications or annual COLA adjustments, plus twenty percent (20%) charge,
except as may be modified by resolution of the city council. (1960 Code; amd.
Ord. 89-662; Ord. 95-782)
6-2A-1: COPIES ON FILE:
Three (3) copies of said ordinance 6130, as amended, of the county of Los
Angeles, have been deposited with the city clerk and shall be at all times
maintained by said city clerk for use and examination by the public. (1960
Code)
6-2A-2: REFERENCE TO UNINCORPORATED AREA:
Whenever in the said ordinance 6130 reference is made to the unincorporated
area of the county of Los Angeles, such area shall be deemed to include in its
true geographical location, the area of the city of Temple City. (1960 Code)
6-2A-3: TERMS:
Whenever any of the following names or terms are used in the said ordinance
6130, each such name or term shall be deemed and construed to have the meaning
ascribed to it in this section as follows:
   BOARD: The city council.
   COUNTY ENGINEER: The city engineer.
   COUNTY HEALTH OFFICER: The city health officer.
   COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES: The city of Temple City, except in such instances
where the county of Los Angeles is a correct notation due to circumstances.
   COUNTY SEWER MAINTENANCE DISTRICT: The county sewer maintenance district
except in the instance where the territory concerned either is not within or
has been withdrawn from a county sewer maintenance district. In any such
instance "county sewer maintenance district" shall mean the city of Temple
City.
   ORDINANCE: An ordinance of the city of Temple City, except in such instances
where the reference is to a stated ordinance of the county of Los Angeles.
   PUBLIC SEWER: All sanitary sewers and appurtenances thereto, lying within
streets or easements dedicated to the city, which are under the sole
jurisdiction of the city.
   TRUNK SEWER: A sewer under the jurisdiction of a public entity other than
the city of Temple City. (1960 Code)
6-2A-4: AMENDMENT OF COUNTY CODE:
The following amendments to ordinance 6130 are hereby enacted:
   A.   Section 4007.1 of said ordinance is amended to read as follows:
      The city engineer may recommend that the city council approve an
agreement to reimburse or agree to reimburse a subdivider, school district, an
improvement district formed under special assessment procedures, or person for
the cost of constructing sanitary sewers for public use where such sewers can
or will be used by areas outside of the proposed development; and to establish
a reimbursement district and collection rates are described in the agreement
under the provisions of this ordinance.
   B.   Section 5204.2 of said ordinance is amended to read as follows:
      In the event the city engineer determines that the property described in
the application for a permit is included within a sewer reimbursement district,
which has been formed by the city council in accordance with section 4007.1,
the charge for connecting to the public sewer shall be as set forth in the
agreement.
   C.   Section 5212 of said ordinance is amended to read as follows:
      Except as otherwise provided in this ordinance all money received under
section 5201 shall be deposited with the city treasurer and credited to the
special sewer maintenance fund.
   D.   Section 5221 of said ordinance is hereby repealed.
   E.   Section 5222 of said ordinance is amended to read as follows:
      All monies collected under this section for sewer maintenance are to be
submitted directly to the county sewer maintenance district for inclusion in
the maintenance district's funds.
   F.   Section 5506 of said ordinance is amended to read as follows:
      In the event the damaged public sewer is not in a sewer maintenance
district, the violator shall reimburse the city within thirty (30) days after
the city engineer shall render an invoice for the same. The amount when paid
shall be deposited in the city treasury.
   G.   Section 6109 of said ordinance is amended to read as follows:
      No uncontaminated cooling water shall be discharged into a drainage
system connected with a public sanitary sewer except by written permission from
the city engineer.
   H.   The following is added to section 5212 of said ordinance:
      The city of Temple City shall not be held liable or responsible for
reimbursement to subdividers for any fees paid to the county of Los Angeles.
(1960 Code)
6-2A-5: COUNTY PERMITS:
Any permit heretofore issued by the county of Los Angeles pursuant to the
sanitary sewer and industrial waste ordinance of said county for work within
the territorial limits of the city shall remain in full force and effect
according to its terms. (1960 Code)
ARTICLE B. SEWER CHARGES
SECTION:
6-2B-0: Title
6-2B-1: Purpose
6-2B-2: Definitions
6-2B-3: General Provisions
6-2B-4: Validity
6-2B-5: City Engineer To Enforce
6-2B-6: Capacity Within The City
6-2B-7: Determination Of Capacity
6-2B-8: Charges
6-2B-9: Credits For Existing Capacity
6-2B-10: City Sewer Reconstruction Fund
6-2B-11: Use Of City Sewer Reconstruction Fund
6-2B-12: Refund
6-2B-0: TITLE:
This article shall be known as the CITY OF TEMPLE CITY SEWER RECONSTRUCTION
ORDINANCE, and may be cited as such. (1960 Code)
6-2B-1: PURPOSE:
Most of the existing sewers in the city were constructed years ago and were
designed to serve residential and agriculture properties. However, due to the
ever increasing population density within the city, the erection of many multi-
family dwelling units and growth of the commercial and industrial areas, the
city sewerage system is no longer adequate to accommodate the increased volume
of sewage generated by such developments. The purpose hereof is to establish a
means of providing adequate sewers required by development in the city and to
establish a charge to be collected from all the properties that propose to
discharge, to the public sewer, quantities of sewage in excess of the quantity
for which the existing sewerage system was designed; and to establish a fund
into which these charges may be deposited and from which monies will be
available for the city sewer reconstruction program. (1960 Code)
6-2B-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, the following terms shall be defined as set forth
herein:
   CITY: That portion of the state of California incorporated as the city of
Temple City and all areas subsequently annexed to the city of Temple City.
   CITY COUNCIL: The city council of the city of Temple City, county of Los
Angeles, state of California.
   CITY ENGINEER: The city engineer of the city of Temple City, or its deputy,
agent or representative.
   FLOOR AREA: The area included within the exterior walls of a building or
portion thereof, exclusive of open vent shafts and courts.
   LOT: Any piece or parcel of land bounded, described or shown upon a map,
plot or deed recorded in the office of the county recorder, county of Los
Angeles or shown as a separate parcel on the last equalized assessment roll
which conforms to the boundaries of such lot as shown upon such recorded map,
plot or deed or roll; provided, however, that in the event any building or
structure or intended use covers more area than a lot as herein defined, the
term lot shall include all such pieces or parcels of land upon which said
building or structure or intended use is wholly or partly located, together
with the yards, courts and other unoccupied spaces legally required for the
building or structure.
   OWNER: An individual human being, a firm, partnership, corporation,
organization or anyone having an interest in any lot or parcel of land in the
city of Temple City.
   PEAK FLOW: The instantaneous maximum rate of flow of sewage to be discharged
to the sewer and, for the purpose hereof, shall be as provided herein.
   PUBLIC SEWER: The main line public sanitary sewer. Exception therefrom
sewers under the jurisdiction of a public entity other than the city of Temple
City. (1960 Code)
6-2B-3: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
No person shall, within the city of Temple City, erect, construct, enlarge or
alter any building or structure or cause the same to be done without first
having complied with the provisions hereof. (1960 Code)
6-2B-4: VALIDITY:
If any provision hereof or the application thereof to any person or
circumstance, be held invalid, the remainder hereof, and the application of
such provisions to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected
thereby. (1960 Code)
6-2B-5: CITY ENGINEER TO ENFORCE:
The city engineer shall enforce and administer all the provisions hereof. (1960
Code)
6-2B-6: CAPACITY WITHIN THE CITY:
The city engineer shall determine what capacity is necessary in each public
sewer to provide for the proper collection of sewage in the city. In the event
a lot in the city is to undergo development or redevelopment, and the
anticipated sewage from the proposed use is found by the city engineer to
exceed the capacity available in the public sewer, the building permit for such
development or redevelopment shall not be issued until such time as capacity in
the public sewer is available or can be made available before the building is
occupied. (1960 Code)
6-2B-7: DETERMINATION OF CAPACITY:
The size and grade of each public sewer must be such as to provide at all times
sufficient capacity for peak flow rates of discharge. In order to establish
estimates of sanitary sewage at peak flow, the owner or developer of a building
shall submit plans of intended construction and such other information as the
city engineer may require on printed forms provided for that purpose.
The following table is established as the peak flows for the various
occupancies and shall be used as the basis for computing the discharge rates to
the public sanitary sewer.
 
Occupancy                              Peak Flow
Apartment or multiple-dwelling         600 gallon/day/dwelling unit
Assembly areas                         15 gallon/day/person
Auditorium                             15 gallon/day/seat
Bar and cocktail lounges               60 gallon/day/seat
Gas station:                            
 Without wash rack                    1,500 gallon/day
 With wash rack                       300 gallon/day
Hospital (convalescent)                300 gallon/day/bed
Hospitals                              1,500 gallon/day
Hotels                                 600 gallon/day/room
Ice plant                              1,200 gallon/day/1,000 square feet of
                                       floor area
Industry, light (no water processes)   600 gallon/day/1,000 square feet of
                                       floor area
Laundry, automatic (public)            225 gallon/day/machine
Medical office                         900 gallon/day/1,000 square feet of
                                       floor area
Mobile homes and/or trailer courts     600 gallon/day/unit
Motels                                 600 gallon/day/unit
Office                                 600 gallon/day/1,000 square feet of
                                       floor area
Restaurant                             150 gallon/day/seat
Schools:                                
 Elementary                           27 gallon/day/capita
 Other                                75 gallon/day/capita
Single-family dwelling                 600 gallon/day/dwelling unit
Stand or drive-in for sale of lunches, 900 gallon/day/1,000 square feet of
ice cream, beverages and similar items floor area
Storage garages and warehouses         75 gallon/day/1,000 square feet of floor
                                       area
Stores, commercial and display         300 gallon/day/1,000 square feet of
                                       floor area
 
All others shall be classified by the occupancy it most nearly resembles as
determined by the city engineer or as computed by the city engineer in
accordance with the anticipated use. The city engineer shall determine the
appropriate flow rate for automobile washes.
The peak flow to the sanitary sewer for a building containing mixed occupancies
shall be determined by adding the peak flow characteristics of the various
occupancies as set forth in the above table.
In the event that an area of occupancy, in use prior to the enactment hereof,
is to undergo structural innovations and such innovations shall not increase
the peak flow as it existed from the lot immediately prior to said date of
enactment to the public sewer, the owner shall submit to the city engineer an
affidavit or statement pursuant to section 2015.5 of the Code Of Civil
Procedure, in duplicate, verifying the actual occupancy load prior to said date
of enactment. (1960 Code)
6-2B-8: CHARGES:
The applicant for a permit to build in the city shall declare all information
necessary, as determined by the city engineer, to comply with the provisions
hereof and shall pay, to the city at the time of issuance of a building permit,
a charge based on the anticipated additional peak flow created by the new
construction, or change of use, at the rate of forty cents ($0.40) per gallon
per day of additional peak flow less any credit which might be allowed as
provided herein. (1960 Code)
6-2B-9: CREDITS FOR EXISTING CAPACITY:
In calculating the chargeable peak flow of sewage, each lot within the city
shall be given a credit of six hundred (600) gallons per day per five thousand
(5,000) square feet of lot area. The amount of peak sewage generated by any
existing facilities on the lot shall be deducted from this credit. This credit
shall be applied more than once to the same lot, except when the building on
the lot has been demolished. (1960 Code)
6-2B-10: CITY SEWER RECONSTRUCTION FUND:
The monies collected hereunder shall be deposited with the city treasurer and
credit to the sewer reconstruction fund. (1960 Code)
6-2B-11: USE OF CITY SEWER RECONSTRUCTION FUND:
Money deposited in the city sewer reconstruction fund as provided herein may be
expended by the city council to accomplish any lawful purpose as provided
herein and as set forth in section 5471 of the Health And Safety Code of the
state of California, or for such other sewer purpose that the city council may
lawfully authorize. All engineering costs, refunds as provided herein, mileage,
overhead, incidentals and construction costs necessarily incurred in the
reconstruction costs necessarily incurred in the reconstruction of sewers shall
be charged to the fund, to the extent allowed by law. (1960 Code)
6-2B-12: REFUND:
In the event any person shall have paid the applicable sewer charge based on
the anticipated additional peak flow created by the new construction as
provided herein and no portion of the new construction shall have been
commenced and the permit for such construction shall have been canceled or
expired, said person shall be entitled upon written request to a refund in an
amount equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the sewer charges paid by said
person minus one percent (1%) of said charge. However, the amount retained
shall not be less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than one hundred dollars
($100.00). (1960 Code)
ARTICLE C. ARTICLE C.SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT 1
SECTION:
6-2C-0: Purpose; Findings
6-2C-1: Definitions
6-2C-2: Solid Waste Handling Service Required
6-2C-3: Containers; Use, Placement For Collection, Storage
6-2C-4: Clean-Up
6-2C-5: Disposal Frequency
6-2C-6: AB 939 Fees
6-2C-7: Recycling Of Recyclable Material
6-2C-8: Recycling Of Organic Material
6-2C-9: Provision Of Solid Waste Handling Service
6-2C-10: Solid Waste Franchises
6-2C-11: Manner, Time And Frequency Of Collection
6-2C-12: Liability For Solid Waste Collection Fees
6-2C-13: Recyclable Materials; Ownership, Right To Dispose
6-2C-14: Landscapers; Disposal Of Green Material
6-2C-15: Licensed Contractors; Disposal Of Construction And Demolition (C&D)
Materials
6-2C-16: Removal Of Solid Waste
6-2C-17: Bulky Items
6-2C-18: Hazardous Waste
6-2C-19: Solid Waste Burning
6-2C-20: Franchise Required
6-2C-21: Public Nuisance
6-2C-22: Unauthorized Disposal
6-2C-23: Spills
6-2C-24: Use Of Containers
6-2C-25: Unlawful Dumping
6-2C-26: Solid Waste Facilities
6-2C-27: Enforcement
6-2C-28: Violation
6-2C-29: Fines And Penalties
6-2C-30: Misdemeanor
6-2C-31: Attorney’s Fees
6-2C-32: Impounding Containers
6-2C-33: Edible Food Recovery Required
 
Notes
1 1.    Original chapter 6-2C, “Garbage And Rubbish Disposal” was repealed and
  replaced by Ord. 21-1053.
6-2C-0: PURPOSE; FINDINGS:
   A.   Purpose: The management and proper disposal of solid waste is a matter
of great importance to the City, its citizens, visitors, property owners and
businesses. The City finds that the public health, safety, and well-being
require the generation, accumulation, handling, collection, transportation,
conversion and disposal of solid waste be controlled and regulated by the City
through the comprehensive system provided in this chapter. This chapter is
intended to ensure solid waste handling services are readily available, adhere
to uniform standards, and are reliable, clean, and efficient. The City has a
strong interest in reducing the harboring and breeding of rodents and insects,
reducing the spread of disease, and preventing pollution and other unsightly
degradation of the environment, which can occur with the improper handling of
solid waste and the excess accumulation of solid waste. Lastly, this chapter is
intended to insure compliance with the Integrated Waste Management Act, as
amended by AB 1826, SB 1383, AB 341, AB 901 and AB 1594, as well as other state
laws as they may be adopted from time to time.
   B.   Findings: The City finds and declares:
      1.   Article XI, § 7 of the California Constitution authorizes cities to
make and enforce within their limits all local, police, sanitary, and other
ordinances and regulations not in conflict with general laws.
      2.   The Legislature of the State of California, by enactment of the
California Integrated Waste Management Act of 1989, ("AB 939" or the "Act")
(codified at Public Resources Code §§ 40000 et seq.) established a solid waste
management process that requires cities and other local jurisdictions to adopt
and implement plans to reduce the amount of solid waste generated within their
jurisdiction and to maximize reuse and recycling.
      3.   AB 939 states that the frequency of solid waste collection, the
means of solid waste collection and transportation, levels of services, charges
and fees for services, and the nature, location and extent of providing solid
waste handling services, are matters of local concern.
      4.   AB 939 expressly allows cities to provide solid waste handling
services to its residents by its own forces or by authorizing a private entity
to provide those services.
      5.   This chapter implements Article XI, § 7 of the California
Constitution and AB 939 in the City of Temple City and protects public health
and safety by authorizing the City Council to provide solid waste handling
service itself or to award one (1) or more franchises to private entities.
      6.   AB 1826 and SB 1383 imposes new requirements on the City and
customers which this chapter is intended to address. (Ord. 21-1053)
6-2C-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section. Words and phrases
not defined in this chapter shall have the meaning ascribed in: Division 30,
Part 1, Chapter 2 of the Public Resources Code, Sections 40100 et seq.; the
regulations of the California Department of Resources Recycling and Recovery;
the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act ("RCRA"), 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901, et seq.
and the regulations implementing RCRA, as they may be amended; and the
Franchise Agreement.
 
AB 341:       Assembly Bill 341 from the 2011-2012 Regular Session of the California
              Legislature (Chapter 476, Statutes 2011).
AB 827:       Assembly Bill 827 from the 2019-2020 Regular Session of the California
              Legislature (Chapter 441, Statutes 2019).
              The California Integrated Waste Management Act of 1989, currently codified as
AB 939:       California Public Resources Code Section 40000 et seq., as it may be amended from
              time to time.
AB 1594:      Assembly Bill 1594 from the 2013-2014 Regular Session of the California
              Legislature (Chapter 719, Statutes 2014).
AB 1826:      Assembly Bill 1826 from the 2013-2014 Regular Session of the California
              Legislature (Chapter 727, Statutes 2014).
ACCOUNT       The persons or entities whose name(s) are on a solid waste franchisee's account
HOLDER:       for a premises.
              A container provided by a solid waste franchisee, including dumpsters,
BINS:         compactors, and any similar such devices with a capacity of under ten (10) cubic
              yards.
              Solid waste that cannot and/or would not typically be accommodated within a cart
              including specifically: furniture (including chairs, sofas, mattresses, and
              rugs); appliances (including refrigerators with and without Freon, ranges,
              washers, dryers, water heaters, dishwashers, plumbing, small household appliances
              and other similar items, commonly known as "white goods"); residential wastes
              (including wood waste, tree branches, scrap wood, in the aggregate not exceeding
              one (1) cubic yard per collection); and clothing. For purposes of this chapter,
              bulky items shall not include items commonly known in the waste industry as
BULK ITEMS or "brown goods," "e-waste" and "universal waste" (including, without limitation all
BULKY WASTE:  types of electronic waste, stereos, televisions, computers and monitors, cellular
              phones, VCRs, microwaves and other sdmilar type of equipment and products). Bulky
              items do not include car bodies, construction and Demolition (C&D) debris or
              (with the exception of appliances/white goods described above) items that cannot
              reasonably and safely be loaded and unloaded into a vehicle by two (2) people
              using equipment of the type which, pursuant to industry standards, would normally
              be carried in a vehicle used in collecting bulky Items. In the event a question
              arises as to whether specific items, or category of items meets the definition of
              bulky items, City shall be responsible to determine whether said definition shall
              apply, which determination shall be final and binding on the parties.
              The State of California Department of Resources Recycling and Recovery, the
CALRECYCLE:   department within the State Natural Resources Agency responsible for the
              administration of AB 939, or any successor department or agency created or
              designated for such purpose pursuant to the Act.
              A plastic container, typically thirty-five (35), sixty- four (64) and ninety-six
CART:         (96) gallons, provided by a solid waste franchisee, with a hinged lid and wheels
              serviced by an automated or semi-automated process, as opposed to a manual
              process of lifting and dumping.
CITY:         The City of Temple City, a municipal corporation of the State of California.
              The territorial boundaries of the City together with all amendments and changes
CITY LIMITS:  thereto, which boundaries are depicted on maps, incorporated herein by reference,
              that are kept on file in the office of the City Clerk of the City of Temple City,
              and which are from time to time amended to reflect changes.
CITY MANAGER: The City Manager of the City of Temple City or his or her designee.
CITY          City-owned or operated premises where solid waste is generated or accumulated.
PREMISES:
COLLECT/      To take physical possession of, transport, and remove solid waste from a
COLLECTION :  premises.
              Premises upon which business activity is conducted, including but not limited to
              retail sales, services, wholesale operations, manufacturing and industrial
              operations, but excluding residential premises upon which business activities are
COMMERCIAL    conducted when such activities are permitted under applicable zoning regulations
PREMISES:     and are not the primary use of the property. For purposes of this chapter, a
              premises upon which hotels, and motels are operated shall be deemed to be
              commercial premises. For the purposes of this chapter, multi-family residential
              premises that receive bin services, shall be deemed to be commercial premises.
CONSTRUCTION  Solid waste generated, produced, or discarded in connection with construction,
AND           demolition, landscaping, land clearing, or general clean-up activities within the
DEMOLITION    City, including, but not limited to, concrete, plaster, drywall, green material,
(C&D) DEBRIS: wood, wood scraps, dirt, rock and rubble.
CONTAINER:    Any and all types of solid waste receptacles, including carts, bins, and
              receptacles provided by solid waste franchisee.
              Shall mean: (i) an organic material container that, by visual or digital
              inspection, five percent (5%) or more by volume, contains comingled garbage,
CONTAMINATED  recyclable materials, or yard waste; (ii) a recyclable materials container that,
CONTAINER:    by visual or digital inspection, five percent (5%) or more by volume, contains
              commingled garbage; or (iii) a yard waste container that, by visual or digital
              inspection, five percent (5%) or more by volume, contains commingled garbage,
              organic material, or recyclables.
              A receptacle for refuse, recyclable material, or green material having a capacity
DEBRIS BOX:   of ten (10) cubic yards or greater that is picked up in its entirety by a
              dedicated truck for emptying at a separate location.
DWELLING      Shall have the meaning set forth in the Municipal Code.
UNIT:
              All food intended and usable for human consumption, or as otherwise defined in 14
              CCR Section 1892(a)(18). For the purposes of this chapter or as otherwise defined
EDIBLE FOOD:  in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(18), "Edible Food" is not solid waste if it is
              recovered and not discarded. Nothing in this chapter or in 14 CCR, Division 7,
              Chapter 12 requires or authorizes the recovery of edible food that does not meet
              the food safety requirements of the California Retail Food Code.
              All federal and state statutes, county, local and City ordinances concerning
              public health, safety and the environment including, by way of example and not
              limitation, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability
              Act of 1980, 42 USC §9601 et seq.; the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, 42
              USC §6901 et seq.; the Federal Clean Water Act, 33 USC §1251 et seq.; the Federal
              Clean Air Act, USC §7401 et seq.; the Toxic Substances Control Act, 15 USC §2601
ENVIRONMENTAL et seq.; the Occupational Safety and Health Act, 29 USC §651 et seq.; the
LAWS:         California Hazardous Waste Control Act, California Health and Safety Code §25100
              et seq.; the Carpenter-Presley-Tanner Hazardous Substance Account Act, California
              Health and Safety Code §25300 et seq.; the Porter-Cologne Water Quality Control
              Act, California Water Code §13000 et seq.; the Safe Drinking Water and Toxic
              Enforcement Act, California Health and Safety Code §25249.5 et seq.; the CalGreen
              Building Code and Water Efficient Landscape Standards set forth in the Municipal
              Code; as currently in force or as hereafter amended, and all rules and
              regulations promulgated thereunder.
              An entity that engages in the collection or receipt of edible food from
              commercial edible food generators and distributes that edible food to the public
              for food recovery either directly or through other entities or as otherwise
FOOD RECOVERY defined in Title 14, California Code of Regulations Section 18982(a)(25),
ORGANIZATION: including, but not limited to: (1) a food bank as defined in Section 113783 of
              the Health and Safety Code; (2) a nonprofit charitable organization as defined in
              Section 113841 of the Health and Safety code; and/or (3) a nonprofit charitable
              temporary food facility as defined in Section 113842 of the Health and Safety
              Code.
              Food scraps and trimmings and other putrescible waste that results from food
              production, preparation, storage, consumption, or handling. For the avoidance of
FOOD WASTE:   doubt, food waste includes, without limitation, meat, fish and dairy wastes,
              fruit and vegetable wastes, grain waste, and compostable food contaminated paper
              products.
FRANCHISE     An agreement between the City and a solid waste franchisee concerning the
AGREEMENT:    performance of one (1) or more solid waste handling services within the City or a
              portion thereof.
FRANCHISE     All premises within the City limits.
AREA:
GARBAGE:      All putrescible and non-putrescible solid, semi-solid and associated liquid
              waste, as defined in California Public Resources Code section 40191.
              Any plant material that is kept separate from other solid waste at the point of
              generation and contains no greater than one percent (1%) of physical contaminants
              by weight. Green material and yard waste includes, but is not limited to, yard
              trimmings, untreated wood wastes, natural fiber products, and construction and
GREEN         demolition (C&D) debris wood waste. Green material and yard waste does not
MATERIAL AND  include food waste, biosolids, plant material mixed with solid waste, material
YARD WASTE:   processed from commingled waste, wood containing lead-based paint or wood
              preservative, or mixed construction and demolition (C&D) debris. "Green Material"
              and "Yard Waste" is not a "Recyclable Material". "Green Material" and "Yard
              Waste" is garbage if it is not segregated from garbage and is discarded into the
              garbage stream.
              Any of the following: (a) any substances defined, regulated or listed (directly
              or by reference) as "hazardous substances," "hazardous materials," "hazardous
HAZARDOUS     wastes," "toxic waste," "pollutant" or "toxic substances" or similarly identified
SUBSTANCE:    as hazardous to human health or the environment, in or pursuant to (i) the
              Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, 42
              USC §9601 et seq.(CERCLA); (ii) the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act, 49
              USC §5101, et seq.; (iii) the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, 42 USC §
              All substances defined as hazardous waste, acutely hazardous waste, or extremely
              hazardous waste by the State of California in Public Resources Code §40141,
HAZARDOUS     Health and Safety Code §25110.02, §25115, and §25117 or in the future amendments
WASTE:        to or recodifications of such statutes or identified and listed as hazardous
              waste by the US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), pursuant to the Federal
              Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (42 USC §6901 et seq.), all future
              amendments thereto, and all rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
              Dry cell household batteries; cell phones and PDAs; used motor oil; used oil
HOUSEHOLD     filters when contained in a sealed plastic bag; cooking oil; compact fluorescent
HAZARDOUS     light bulbs contained in a sealed plastic bag; cleaning products; pesticides;
WASTE:        herbicides; insecticides; painting supplies; automotive products; solvents;
              stripes; and adhesives; auto batteries; and universal waste generated at a
              residential premises.
              Any structure or structures having five (5) or more dwelling units under common
MULTI-FAMILY  ownership, or developed into a multi-family development with individual unit
DWELLING UNIT owners, sharing common walls, common areas, common utilities, or common
(S) OR MFDs:  facilities, including without limitation apartment buildings, townhomes,
              condominiums, group living facilities, assisted living facilities, and similar
              structure uses.
MUNICIPAL     The City's Municipal Code.
CODE:
              Those materials which are capable of being composted and which would otherwise be
              processed as recyclable material or disposed of as garbage. Organic material
              includes any vegetative matter resulting from normal yard and landscaping
ORGANIC       maintenance and fits in the organic material cart utilized by the person in
MATERIAL:     charge. Organic material includes green material and other forms of vegetative
              waste. Organic material also includes food waste, stable matter, and acceptable
              food packaging items such as pizza boxes, paper towels, waxed cardboard and food
              contaminated paper products. Organic material does not include items defined
              herein as hazardous substances.
ORGANIC       A commercial facility permitted by the State of California which accepts and
MATERIAL      processes, by composting or other permissible methods, organic material for
PROCESSING    diversion from landfill disposal.
FACILITY:
OWNER:        The persons or entities listed on the last equalized assessment roll as the owner
              of a lot or parcel of real property within the City.
              Any individual, firm, association, organization, partnership, corporation,
PERSON:       business trust, joint venture, the United States, the State of California, the
              County of Los Angeles, towns, cities, and special purpose districts.
PERSON IN     An owner, account holder, tenant, occupant or other person or persons responsible
CHARGE:       for the day to day operation of a premises.
PREMISES:     Any land, building, and/or structure within the City limits where solid waste is
              generated or accumulated.
              The process of collecting, sorting, cleaning, treating and reconstituting
RECYCLE OR    materials that would otherwise be disposed of and returning these materials to
RECYCLING:    the economic mainstream in the form of raw materials for new, reused or
              reconstituted products.
              That material discarded within the franchise area which is capable of being
              recycled, consistent with the requirements of AB 939, including but not limited
              to the following:
              1.   Aluminum cans;
              2.   Glass jars and bottles;
              3.   Steel, bi-metal and tin cans, and empty aerosol containers;
              4.   PVC pipe;
RECYCLABLE    5.   Juice boxes and milk cartons (aseptic packaging, Tetra Pak, and waxed
MATERIAL OR   cardboard);
RECYCLEABLES: 6.   Detergent containers;
              7.   Scrap metal, coat hangers and metal foil;
              8.   Newspapers and telephone books;
              9.   Mixed paper (e.g., ledger, computer, junk mail, magazines, paperback books,
              cereal boxes, envelopes, paper shopping bags and non-metallic wrapping paper);
              10.   Corrugated cardboard and chipboard;
              11.   Chlorofluorocarbons (contained in bulky items set out for collection); and
              12.   Wood (incidental scrap pieces set out for collection with green material,
              and larger quantities if set out for collection with bulky items).
              A building or lot containing one (1) dwelling unit, and includes buildings and
              lots with more than one (1) dwelling unit where such dwelling units are
              determined by the City to be reasonably able to receive individualized solid
              waste handling service and the number of dwelling units on the premises is less
RESIDENTIAL   than five (5). For the purposes of this chapter, multi-family residential
PREMISES:     premises that receive cart services, shall be deemed to be residential premises.
              Multi-family residential premises that receive bin services, shall be deemed to
              be commercial premises. Any ambiguity as to whether a premises qualifies as a
              residential premises or commercial premises shall be resolved by the City Manager
              whose decision shall be final.
SB 1383:      Senate Bill 1383 from the 2015-2016 Regular Session of the California Legislature
              (Lara Chapter 395, Statutes 2016).
              Garbage, recyclable material, and organic material. Solid waste does not include
SOLID WASTE:  hazardous contaminants, hazardous substances, hazardous waste, low-level
              radioactive waste, untreated medical waste, or special wastes.
SOLID WASTE   Any individual, partnership, joint venture, unincorporated private organization,
ENTERPRISE:   or private corporation, which is regularly engaged in the business of providing
              solid waste handling services.
SOLID WASTE   A solid waste enterprise that has been granted the right and privilege by the
FRANCHISEE:   City, or by operation of law, to perform one (1) or more solid waste handling
              services within the City or a portion thereof.
SOLID WASTE   The collection, and thereafter the transfer, transport, recycling, processing,
HANDLING      and disposal of garbage, organic material, recyclable materials, construction and
SERVICES:     demolition materials, bulky items, and/or universal waste.
              Wastes other than solid waste including sewage, sludge, industrial sludge,
              asbestos, auto bodies, tires, used motor oil, hazardous waste, animal waste,
SPECIAL       explosive substances, radioactive materials, and other materials which may not be
WASTES:       disposed of at a Class III landfill or which require special handling. "Animal
              waste" shall mean animal carcasses, dead animals, and/or parts or portions of
              dead animals. Animal waste shall not include manure.
              Deposited, released, spilled, leaked, pumped, poured, emitted, emptied,
              discharged, injected, dumped or disposed into the environment, or which otherwise
SPILLED:      has come to be located outside an authorized container. The term "disposed into
              the environment" shall include, but is not limited to, the abandonment or
              discarding of barrels, bags, cans and other closed receptacles containing
              garbage, recyclable materials or organic material.
              A commercial edible food generator that is one (1) of the following:
TIER ONE      1.   Supermarkets with gross annual sales of two million dollars ($2,000,000.00)
COMMERCIAL    or more;
EDIBLE FOOD   2.   Grocery store with a total facility size equal to or greater than ten
GENERATOR:    thousand (10,000) square feet;
              3.   Food service provider; or
              4.   Wholesale food vendor.
              A commercial edible food generator that is one (1) of the following:
              1.   Restaurant with two hundred fifty (250) or more seats, or a total facility
              size equal to or greater than five thousand (5,000) square feet;
              2.   Hotel with an on-site food facility and two hundred (200) or more rooms;
TIER TWO      3.   Health facility with an on-site food facility and one hundred (100) or more
COMMERCIAL    beds;
EDIBLE FOOD   4.   Large venue;
GENERATOR:    5.   Large event;
              6.   A state agency with a cafeteria with two hundred fifty (250) or more seats
              or total cafeteria facility size equal to or greater than five thousand (5,000)
              square feet; or
              7.   A local education agency facility with an on-site food facility.
              Means and includes, but is not limited to, “Universal Waste Electronic Devices"
              or "UWEDs," (i.e., electronic devices subject to the regulation of the Department
              of Toxic Substances Control, 23 CCR §§ 66273.1, et seq.), and other universal
              wastes, including, but not limited to non-empty aerosol cans, fluorescent tubes,
UNIVERSAL     high intensity discharge lamps, sodium vapor lamps, and any other lamp exhibiting
WASTE:        a characteristic of a hazardous waste, batteries (rechargeable nickel-cadmium
              batteries, silver button batteries, mercury batteries, small sealed lead acid
              batteries [burglar alarm and emergency light batteries] alkaline batteries,
              carbon-zinc batteries and any other batteries which exhibit the characteristic of
              a hazardous waste), mercury thermometers, and mercury-containing switches. (Ord.
              21-1053)
 
6-2C-2: SOLID WASTE HANDLING SERVICE REQUIRED:
In order to protect the public health, safety and wellbeing, and to prevent the
spread of vectors, the person in charge of a premises shall make arrangements
with the City's solid waste franchisee for solid waste handling services.
Organic material generators subject to the requirements of SB 1383 shall fully
comply with all applicable SB 1383 regulatory requirements or be subject to the
penalties as prescribed in Section 18997.2 of SB 1383, as determined by the
City Manager.
6-2C-3: CONTAINERS; USE, PLACEMENT FOR COLLECTION, STORAGE:
   A.   Use: Every person in charge of a premises shall:
      1.   Keep on the premises a sufficient number of containers that will
hold all garbage, recyclable materials, and organic material that accumulates
on the premises each week without spilling, leaking, or the emission of
unreasonable or excessive odors. It shall be the duty of every person in charge
to keep the containers used for solid waste handling services in a clean and
sanitary condition.
      2.   Deposit or cause to be deposited all garbage, recyclable materials
and organic material generated or accumulated on the premises into containers
meeting the requirements of this chapter.
      3.   Use those containers provided by the appropriate solid waste
franchisee.
      4.   Shall enroll in garbage and recycling collection services provided
by the appropriate solid waste franchisee. Enroll in organic material
collection services provided by the appropriate solid waste franchisee, as
required by this chapter and AB 939.
   B.   Placement For Collection: To minimize interference with public rights-
of-way, no person shall place a container in a public right-of-way for
collection by the appropriate solid waste franchisee more than twenty-four (24)
hours prior to the normal collection time. Containers placed in a public right-
of-way for collection shall be removed from the right-of-way within twelve (12)
hours after collection.
   C.   Storage: Except during the time a cart or bin is placed for collection,
reasonable efforts shall be made to limit the visibility of carts or bins from
the public right-of-way. A debris box may be placed in a location that is
visible from the public right of way at a residential premises for up to thirty
(30) consecutive days and for no more than sixty (60) total days during any
twelve (12) month period.
   D.   Bins At Residential Premises:
      1.   Solid waste franchisee shall not supply bins to residential premises
in place of refuse carts, or otherwise use bins for solid waste handling
services at such premises; excepting, however, that bins may be used for solid
waste collection when requested by the owner of the premises receiving service
at residential premises and an exception permit is granted by the City Manager.
      2.   Recycling carts must still be provided to any residential premises
provided with bins in place of refuse carts. In each such situation, bins may
only be provided by solid waste franchisee if an enclosed storage area exists,
or they are otherwise kept on the premises in such a manner as to not be
visible from the public right-of-way.
      3.   Owners of residential premises who currently have bins at their
residential premises shall have three (3) years from the effective date of this
provision to either: (1) build an enclosure following City Standards, or make
reasonable efforts to limit the visibility of the bin from the public right-of-
way; or (2) remove the bin from the property and have it replaced by carts.
(Ord. 21-1053)
6-2C-4: CLEAN UP:
   A.   Until garbage, recyclable materials, or organic material has been
picked up by the appropriate solid waste franchisee, each person in charge of a
premises shall be responsible for the cleanup of any and all garbage,
recyclable material, or organic material generated or accumulated on the
premises that is spilled on, at, or in the premises. This cleanup
responsibility includes the cleanup of garbage, recyclable materials, and
organic material spilled for any reason, including but not limited to human or
animal interference with a container, wind or other natural forces, at any time
during storage, collection, removal, or transfer of the materials.
   B.   The City's solid waste franchisee(s) shall clean up any garbage,
recyclable material, or organic material spilled during its collection,
removal, or transfer, as soon as the spill occurs. (Ord. 21-1053)
6-2C-5: DISPOSAL FREQUENCY:
Unless waived in accordance with this chapter, all solid waste accumulating
upon a premises must be disposed of as frequently as required to avoid an
accumulation of solid waste, but in no case shall disposal occur less
frequently than one (1) time per week, except that less than weekly disposal is
permitted during any period of time the premises is temporarily unoccupied and
solid waste is not accumulating on the premises due to out-of-town travel or
other similar situations. The City may alter the collection frequency required
by this section through written agreement with the City's solid waste
franchisee(s). (Ord. 21-1053)
6-2C-6: AB 939 FEES:
Pursuant to Division 30, Part 2, Chapter 8 of the Public Resources Code,
Section 41900 et seq., the City may impose fees on premises in amounts
sufficient to pay the costs of preparing, adopting, and implementing a
countywide integrated waste management plan, including the costs of preparing,
adopting and implementing the City's required source reduction and recycling
element, household hazardous waste element, and nondisposal facility element,
and the costs of setting and collecting the fees. In the event such fees are
imposed, the City's solid waste franchisee(s) shall collect the fees as part of
its standard billing process. (Ord. 21-1053)
6-2C-7: RECYCLING OF RECYCLABLE MATERIAL:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to establish mandatory
requirements for the recycling of recyclable materials generated from
commercial premises, residential premises, and City premises. These
requirements are intended to increase the diversion of recyclable materials
from landfills, conserve capacity and extend the useful life of landfills
utilized by the City, reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and avoid the potential
financial and other consequences to the City of failing to meet State law
diversion requirements.
   B.   General Requirements: The person in charge of each commercial premises
and multi-family residence shall be responsible for ensuring and demonstrating
its compliance with the following requirements with regard to the recycling of
recyclable materials:
      1.   Owners, landlords, tenants and occupants, jointly or severally,
shall recycle recyclable materials by depositing the appropriate containers
provided by the City's solid waste franchisee.
      2.   Occupants or landlords shall designate, for the convenience and use
of occupants, employees, and independent contractors, recycling collection and
storage areas and shall prominently place appropriate signs in and around the
proximity of such areas.
      3.   Occupants or landlords shall ensure that their employees, occupants,
and independent contractors are educated about recycling services available at
the site. Information, including the types of recyclable materials accepted,
the location of recycling containers, and the employees' and occupants
responsibility to recycle shall be distributed periodically, and all new
occupants, employees when hired, and independent contractors when retained,
shall also be given such information and instruction. All occupants, employees
and independent contractors shall also be given appropriate information and
instructions concerning any change in recycling services to the premises.
      4.   Ensuring that recyclable materials generated at their site will be
taken only to a recycling facility and not to a landfill for disposal by
complying with all requirements under this chapter.
   C.   Liability:
      1.   No solid waste enterprise shall be liable for the failure of its
customers to comply with the provisions of this section.
      2.   No recyclable materials generator shall be liable for the failure of
the solid waste franchisee to deliver recyclable materials to a recycling or
processing facility. (Ord. 21-1053)
6-2C-8: RECYCLING OF ORGANIC MATERIAL:
   A.   Obtaining Services: Without exception, every commercial premises shall
make arrangements with the City or the City's solid waste franchisee for
organic material recycling services. Every residential premises, multi-family
residential premises, and City premises shall make arrangements with the City
or the City's solid waste franchises for organic material recycling services in
compliance with AB 1826, SB 1383, AB 341, and AB 827 (California Public
Resources Code section 42649.8 et seq.) or any other applicable law relating to
the recycling of organic material, as it may be amended from time to time.
   B.   General Requirements: The person in charge of each commercial premises
and multi-family residence shall be responsible for ensuring and demonstrating
its compliance with the following requirements with regard to the recycling of
organic materials:
      1.   All organic materials must be generated by and at the premises
wherein the organic materials are collected.
      2.   Owners, landlords, tenants and occupants, jointly or severally,
shall recycle organic materials by depositing the appropriate containers
provided by the City's solid waste franchisee.
      3.   Occupants or landlords shall designate, for the convenience and use
of occupants, employees, and independent contractors, recycling collection and
storage areas and shall prominently place appropriate signs in and around the
proximity of such areas.
      4.   Occupants or landlords shall ensure that their employees, occupants,
and independent contractors are educated about recycling services available at
the site. Information, including the types of organic materials accepted, the
location of recycling containers, and the employees' and occupants
responsibility to recycle shall be distributed periodically, and all new
occupants, employees when hired, and independent contractors when retained,
shall also be given such information and instruction. All occupants, employees
and independent contractors shall also be given appropriate information and
instructions concerning any change in recycling services to the premises.
      5.   Ensuring that organic materials generated at their site will be
taken only to a recycling facility and not to a landfill for disposal by
complying with all requirements under this chapter.
   C.   Liability:
      1.   No solid waste enterprise shall be liable for the failure of its
customers to comply with the provisions of this section.
      2.   No organic materials generator shall be liable for the failure of
the solid waste franchisee to deliver organic materials to a recycling or
processing facility. (Ord. 21-1053)
6-2C-9: PROVISION OF SOLID WASTE HANDLING SERVICE:
   A.   The City Council may grant franchises to one (1) or more solid waste
enterprises to make arrangements with the persons in charge of premises within
the City for solid waste handling services, in accordance with this chapter.
   B.   The City Council may determine solid waste collection categories,
(e.g., residential, commercial, construction and demolition debris, household
hazardous waste, universal waste, recyclable materials, organic material, food
recovery and others) and may make or impose franchise, license, contract or
permit requirements which may vary for such categories. (Ord. 21-1053)
6-2C-10: SOLID WASTE FRANCHISES:
   A.   The City Council may award exclusive, partially exclusive, or non-
exclusive franchises for one (1) or more types of solid waste handling services
for all or a portion of the premises in the City. Any such franchise shall be
in the form of a written agreement, approved by the City Council, and shall be
subject to all of the continuation rights, if any, held by any other solid
waste enterprise pursuant to Public Resources Code § 49520 et seq. Where the
franchise agreement is silent on an issue, the provisions of this chapter shall
govern. Where a franchise agreement predates the effective date of this
chapter, the provisions of the franchise agreement shall govern over any
inconsistent provisions contained in this chapter.
   B.   Any franchise granted pursuant to paragraph A of this section shall be
granted on such terms and conditions as the City Council shall establish in its
sole discretion. At a minimum, the franchise shall provide:
      1.   The solid waste franchisee shall comply with the provisions of this
chapter;
      2.   The solid waste franchisee shall protect, defend, indemnify and hold
the City harmless from such acts, omissions, liabilities and damages related to
the agreement as the City Attorney and City Manager determine to be reasonable
necessary to adequately protect the City; and
      3.   The solid waste franchisee shall be required to cooperate with the
City in solid waste disposal characterization studies and the preparation of
waste stream audits, and to submit information required by the City to meet the
reporting requirements of AB 939, or any other law or regulation, and to
implement measures consistent with the City's source reduction and recycling
element to reach the solid waste and recycling goals mandated by the AB 939, as
it may be amended from time to time;
      4.   The solid waste franchisee shall provide commercial recycling
service in a manner to exceed or meet compliance with AB 939, as it may be
amended from time to time. Solid waste franchisee will notify all remises of
the requirements to comply with the law and must provide the necessary volume
of collection services in order for all premises to be in full compliance with
the law. The solid waste franchisee will conduct in-person outreach to all non-
participating premises a minimum of once per calendar year or as identified
within the franchise agreement; and
      5.   The solid waste franchisee shall provide services to ensure the City
is in compliance with State law diversion requirements and deliver all green
materials to a processing facility. (Ord. 21-1053)
6-2C-11: MANNER, TIME AND FREQUENCY OF COLLECTION:
   A.   Regular Collection: The City's solid waste franchisee(s) shall make
arrangements with its account holders specifying the manner in which solid
waste handling services are to be regularly provided, subject to the terms of
its franchise.
   B.   Special Collections: The City's solid waste franchisee(s) shall provide
special collections, such as bulky item pick-up, in accordance with the
franchise agreement. At minimum, the City's solid waste franchisee(s) shall
provide on-call collection of bulky items to its account holders, and shall
provide its account holders with debris boxes when requested and collect the
debris box when the account holder no longer requires the debris box. (Ord. 21-
1053)
6-2C-12: LIABILITY FOR SOLID WASTE COLLECTION FEES:
   A.   Joint And Several Liability: The owner of a premises and the account
holder for a premises are jointly and severally liable for solid waste handling
services provided to the premises by a solid waste franchisee.
   B.   Delinquent Accounts:
      1.   Any premises that has a solid waste handling service account unpaid
by the due date listed on the solid waste franchisee's billing statement shall
be deemed delinquent. Except to the extent otherwise provided by this chapter,
it shall be the sole responsibility of solid waste franchisee to take any
authorized measures to collect any delinquent sums owed. Any delinquent fees or
solid waste handling service charges to be imposed in connection with
delinquent accounts shall be set by solid waste franchisee and be subject to
City Manager review. Solid waste franchisee may charge a fee for any check
returned for insufficient funds at a rate not exceeding the maximum rate set
forth in the franchise agreement.
      2.   Solid waste franchisee may discontinue solid waste handling services
to any premises that is delinquent by sixty (60) days or more. Prior to
discontinuing service, solid waste franchisee shall provide the person in
charge with notice that solid waste handling services may be discontinued
fifteen (15) days from the date of notice if payment is not made before that
time. If payment is not made by the expiration of said fifteen (15) day period,
solid waste franchisee may discontinue solid waste handling services forty-
eight (48) hours thereafter.
      3.   Solid waste franchisee shall resume solid waste handling services on
the next regularly scheduled collection day for any premises where solid waste
handling service is discontinued upon receipt of payment of all outstanding
charges, including delinquent fees, any deposit required by this section, and
any fees for redelivery of equipment, or at such sooner time as directed to do
so by City. Solid waste franchisee may not charge for solid waste handling
services during any period in which solid waste handling service was suspended.
Any delinquent fees or service charges to be imposed in connection with
delinquent accounts shall be set by solid waste franchisee and is subject to
City Manager approval.
      4.   A deposit equal to the maximum rate for one (1) month's solid waste
handling services, as such rates may be amended from time to time, may be
required of accounts which have been discontinued for non-payment prior to re-
instituting solid waste handling service at such accounts. (Ord. 21-1053)
6-2C-13: RECYCLABLE MATERIALS; OWNERSHIP, RIGHT TO DISPOSE:
   A.   Upon placement by the owner of recyclable material at a designated
recycling collection location, or placement of recyclable materials in a
container provided by the appropriate solid waste franchisee, the recyclable
material becomes the property of the recycler or solid waste franchisee, by
operation of state law.
   B.   Nothing in this chapter shall limit the right of any person,
organization or other entity to donate or sell to third parties its own
recyclable material personally source separate from the solid waste stream
owned by the generator. For purposes of this provision, no donation or sale
shall be deemed to have occurred in any instance where a generator directly or
indirectly pays the third party any sum regardless of form or amount (including
without limit as a consulting fee, container rental, broker or other fees or
tangible consideration) either: (i) in lieu of being directly charged for
collecting, transporting, processing or recycling such item; or (ii) to offset
the payment to the generator for the purported sale of such item to the third
party. Nor shall the receipt of a discount of, or reduction in, the disposal
service rate on unsegregated solid waste containing an item which would be
recyclable material materials, if separated, be deemed to be the donation or
sale of such an item to a third party. (Ord. 21-1053)
6-2C-14: LANDSCAPERS; DISPOSAL OF GREEN MATERIAL:
Landscapers may collect, transport and compost or dispose of green material,
provided that any such green material is transported to a site permitted by
CalRecycle or exempt from permitting.
Landscapers shall not contract with a solid waste enterprise to collect,
transport and compost or dispose of green material unless that solid waste
enterprise has a franchise from the City to perform said services. (Ord. 21-
1053)
6-2C-15: LICENSED CONTRACTORS; DISPOSAL OF CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION (C&D)
MATERIALS:
   A.   Prior to commencing any construction or demolition project, every
applicant shall submit a properly completed "Construction Waste Management
Plan" (CWMP) to the CWMP Compliance Official or Building Inspector, in a form
as prescribed by that official, as a portion of the building or demolition
permit process.
   B.   Submission Of The CWMP: The completed CWMP shall contain, at a minimum,
the following information:
      1.   The estimated volume or weight of project waste to be generated by
material type;
      2.   Declaration of whether the materials will be sorted on site or
mixed;
      3.   The maximum volume or weight of such materials that can feasibly be
diverted via reuse, recycling or salvage for future use or sale by material
type;
      4.   The vendor(s) that the applicant proposes to use to haul the
materials;
      5.   Facility(ies) the materials will be hauled to, and their expected
diversion rates (by volume or weight) by material type; and
      6.   Estimated "feasible" volume or weight of construction and demolition
waste that will be disposed of.
      Because actual material weights are not available in this stage,
estimates are used. In estimating the volume or weight of materials as
identified in the CWMP, the applicant shall use the standardized conversion
rates approved by the City of Temple City for this purpose. Approval of the
CWMP as complete and accurate shall be a condition precedent to the issuance of
any building or demolition permit. If the applicant calculates the projected
estimated feasible diversion rate as described above, and finds the rate does
not meet the diversion goal of sixty-five percent (65%), the applicant must
then submit information supporting the lower diversion rate. If this
documentation is not included, the CWMP shall be deemed incomplete.
   C.   Compliance With The CWMP; Documentation: Prior to final inspection of
any covered project, the applicant shall submit to the CWMP Compliance Official
or Building Inspector, documentation proving that it has met the diversion
requirement for the project. The diversion requirement shall be that the
applicant has diverted at least sixty-five (65%) of the total C&D debris
generated by the project via reuse or recycling. This documentation shall
include all of the following:
      1.   Receipts from the vendor or facility that collected or received each
material showing the actual weight or volume of that material;
      2.   A copy of the previously submitted CWMP for the project adding the
actual volume of weight of each material diverted and landfilled; and
      3.   Any additional information the applicant believes is relevant to
determining its efforts to comply in good faith with this chapter.
   D.   Licensed contractors performing work within the scope of their licenses
within the City may collect, transport and dispose or recycle self-generated
construction and demolition materials using their own vehicles and employees,
after obtaining a self-haul permit, provided that the licensed contractor
adheres to the standards for disposal of construction and demolition material
provided in the California Green Building Standards Code (California Code of
Regulations Title 24, Part 11), as those provisions may be amended.
Construction and demolition materials must be transported to a landfill or
recycling facility permitted by CalRecycle or exempt from permitting.
   E.   Licensed contractors shall not contract with a solid waste enterprise
to collect, transport and dispose or recycle of construction and demolition
materials unless that solid waste enterprise has a franchise from the City to
perform said services. (Ord. 21-1053)
6-2C-16: REMOVAL OF SOLID WASTE:
No person other than the person in charge of any premises or a City solid waste
franchisee shall:
   A.   Remove any container from the location where the container was placed
for storage or collection by the person in charge of the premises;
   B.   Remove any garbage, recyclable materials, organic materials, or green
materials from any container; or
   C.   Move a container from the location in which it was placed for storage
or collection without the prior written approval of the person in charge of the
premises. (Ord. 21-1053)
6-2C-17: BULKY ITEMS:
No person shall place bulky items adjacent to or in a street or public right-
of-way for collection or removal purposes without first making arrangements
with the appropriate solid waste franchisee for the collection or removal of
such bulky items. (Ord. 21-1053)
6-2C-18: HAZARDOUS WASTE:
Unless specifically provided for by the solid waste franchisee and clearly
designated for hazardous waste, household hazardous waste or universal waste,
no person shall place or deposit hazardous waste, household hazardous waste, or
universal waste in any container provided by a solid waste franchisee, or
deposit, release, spill, leak, pump, pour, emit, empty, discharge, inject, dump
or dispose into the environment any hazardous waste, household hazardous waste
or universal waste. (Ord. 21-1053)
6-2C-19: SOLID WASTE BURNING:
No person shall burn any solid waste within the City, except in an approved
incinerator or transformation facility or other device for which a permit has
been issued, and which complies with all applicable permit and other
regulations of air pollution control authorities, and provided any such act of
burning in all respects complies with all other laws, rules and regulations.
(Ord. 21-1053)
6-2C-20: FRANCHISE REQUIRED:
No person, except a solid waste franchisee, a landscaper, or a licensed
contractor performing work within the scope of that license, shall collect or
remove any garbage, recyclable materials or organic material from any premises
within the City. (Ord. 21-1053)
6-2C-21: PUBLIC NUISANCE:
It is unlawful and a public nuisance if one (1) of the following conditions
exists at a premises:
   A.   The person in charge of the premises has not made arrangements with the
appropriate solid waste franchisee for solid waste handling services; or
   B.   The person in charge of the premises has made arrangements with the
appropriate solid waste franchisee for solid waste handling services, but the
solid waste franchisee has terminated services to the premises due to the
account holder's failure to pay for such services. (Ord. 21-1053)
6-2C-22: UNAUTHORIZED DISPOSAL:
No person shall place anything in another person's containers without the
permission of such other person. (Ord. 21-1053)
6-2C-23: SPILLS:
It is unlawful for any person transporting garbage, recyclable materials or
organic material not to clean up, or arrange for the cleanup, of any garbage,
recyclable materials or organic material spilled during removal or transport
within the City by such person. If any person transporting garbage, recyclable
materials or organic material spills any such materials and does not clean up
or arrange for the cleanup of the spill, the City may clean up the spill and
charge the person responsible for the spill one hundred percent (100%) of the
costs the City incurred in cleaning up the spill. (Ord. 21-1053)
6-2C-24: USE OF CONTAINERS:
   A.   Having or maintaining a contaminated container is prohibited and shall
constitute a public nuisance. No person in charge of a premises shall keep
garbage, recyclable materials, organic material, or yard waste in any container
other than a container provided by the appropriate solid waste franchisee.
Recyclable materials must be separated by the person in charge of a premises
from garbage, organic material, and yard waste. Organic material must be
separated by the person in charge of a premises from garbage, recyclable
materials, and yard waste. Yard waste must be separated by the person in charge
of a premises from garbage, recyclable materials, and organic material.
   B.   Any container not provided by the appropriate solid waste franchisee is
prima facie evidence that the owner of the container is engaging in solid waste
disposal in violation of this chapter. Any such unauthorized container may be
abated as a public nuisance and impounded as provided in this chapter.
   C.   Notwithstanding subsections A. and B. of this section, composting
organic material at a residential premise in a container other than one
provided by a solid waste franchisee shall not be a violation of this section.
   D.   No person in charge of a premises may place an overfilled container out
for collection by a solid waste franchisee. "Overfilled" means a container
filled in a manner such that the lid of the container is unable to fully close
and exceeds a 45-degree angle. (Ord. 21-1053)
6-2C-25: UNLAWFUL DUMPING:
It is unlawful for any person to negligently or intentionally spill upon any
property within the City any garbage, recyclable materials or organic material,
or to cause, suffer, or permit garbage, recyclable materials or organic
material to be located upon any property in the City, except as authorized by
law. (Ord. 21-1053)
6-2C-26: SOLID WASTE FACILITIES:
No person shall construct or operate a solid waste management facility,
including but not limited to a materials recovery facility, solid waste
transfer or processing station, composting facility, a buy-back or drop-off
center, disposal facility or a recycling center without first satisfying all
City requirements for land use, environmental and other approvals. (Ord. 21-
1053)
6-2C-27: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Pursuant to California Penal Code Section 836.5, any City code
enforcement officer is authorized to enforce the provisions of this chapter and
as well as those of California Penal Code Sections 374, 374a, 374.2, 374.3,
374.4, 374d, 374.7, and 375; California Government Code Section 68055 et seq.;
and California Vehicle Code Sections 23111 and 23112.
   B.   Any violation of this chapter may be enforced in any manner authorized
by law, including but not limited to, any enforcement mechanism set forth in
the Act, a criminal citation, a civil citation, and/or administrative citation,
or nuisance abatement action as authorized by the City's Municipal Code. The
City may simultaneously pursue more than one method of enforcement for any
violation of this chapter. (Ord. 21-1053)
6-2C-28: VIOLATION:
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, violations of this chapter are
punishable as set out in Title 1, Chapter 2 of this Municipal Code. (Ord. 21-
1053)
6-2C-29: FINES AND PENALTIES:
The City Council may, by resolution, establish fines and penalties for the
violation of this chapter and the Act. (Ord. 21-1053)
6-2C-30: MISDEMEANOR:
Violation of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor. The City may cite violations
as infractions where an appropriate downgrade is approved by the City
Prosecutor or City Attorney. (Ord. 21-1053)
6-2C-31: ATTORNEY’S FEES:
In any action or proceeding brought to enforce a violation of this chapter,
including but not limited to a nuisance abatement action and an action to
foreclose on a special assessment, the prevailing party shall recover its
reasonable attorney's fees and costs. (Ord. 21-1053)
6-2C-32: IMPOUNDING CONTAINERS:
   A.   Containers Subject To Impounding: Any container within the City that is
not provided by the appropriate solid waste franchisee may be impounded in
accordance with this section. Containers used for composting at residential
premises, as allowed by this chapter, shall not be subject to impounding
pursuant to this section.
   B.   Notice To Remove: The City Manager may cause a notice to remove to be
posted on the illegal container. The notice to remove shall state that the
container must be removed from the premises within three (3) calendar days from
the date the notice is posted on the container or it will be removed and stored
by the City and the contents disposed of at the expense of the owner of the
container. The posting of the notice to remove constitutes constructive notice
to the owner of the container and the person in charge of the premises that the
container must be removed from the premises.
   C.   Removal Of Containers: If the container is not removed within three (3)
calendar days of the notice to remove, the City Manager may direct the removal
and storage of the container and the disposal of its contents. The City may
employ the services of its solid waste franchisee(s) or any other contractor to
remove said containers. Any person whose duty it is to remove and store
containers may enter upon private property with the consent of the owner or
other person in charge of the premises, or by authority of a warrant, or
without consent or a warrant if exigent circumstances exist.
   D.   Storage Of Containers: After a container is removed and placed in
storage, the City Manager shall mail to the owner of the container a notice to
claim the stored container, if the identity of the owner of the container is
known. The City Manager shall make reasonable efforts to identify the owner of
a stored container. If the container is not claimed within thirty (30) calendar
days after notice to the owner is mailed, or thirty (30) days after the
container is removed if the owner is not known, the container shall be deemed
abandoned property and may be disposed of accordingly.
   E.   Release Of Container: No container shall be released to its owner
unless the owner has paid the City for the actual costs of the removal, storage
and disposal of contents, plus any administrative and ancillary fees, fines or
penalties established by resolution of City Council. All amounts due to the
City shall constitute a civil debt owed to the City by the owner of the
container. (Ord. 21-1053)
6-2C-33: EDIBLE FOOD RECOVERY REQUIRED:
   A.   Tier One Commercial Edible Food Generators shall comply with the
requirements of Title 14, Division 7, Chapter 12 of the California Code of
Regulations commencing January 1, 2022. Tier Two Commercial Edible Food
Generators shall comply with the requirements of Title 14, Division 7, Chapter
12 of the California Code of Regulations commencing January 1, 2024.
   B.   A large venue or large event operator that does not provide food
services, but allows for food to be provided, shall require food facilities
operating at the large venue or large event to comply with the requirements of
Title 14, Division 7, Chapter 12 of the California Code of Regulations.
   C.   Commercial edible food generators shall comply with the following
requirements:
      1.   Arrange to recover the maximum amount of edible food that would
otherwise be disposed.
      2.   Contract with, or enter into a written agreement with food recovery
organizations or food recovery services for: (i) the collection of edible food
for food recovery; or (ii) acceptance of the edible food that the commercial
edible food generator shelf haulers to the food recovery organization for food
recovery.
      3.   Shall not intentionally spoil edible food that is capable of being
recovered by a food recovery organization or a food recovery service.
      4.   Commercial edible food generators and food recovery organizations
shall maintain a record acceptable to City Manager in compliance with
applicable law.
      5.   Keep records that include the following information, or as otherwise
specified in Title 14 California Code of Regulations Section 18991.4. (Ord. 21-
1053)
ARTICLE D. INTEGRATED WASTE MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
(Rep. by Ord. 21-1053)
CHAPTER 3
PUBLIC UTILITIES
ARTICLE A. GENERAL
SECTION:
6-3A-0: Definitions
6-3A-1: Public Hearing By Council
6-3A-2: Report By City Engineer
6-3A-3: Designation Of Underground Utility Districts
6-3A-4: Unlawful Acts
6-3A-5: Exceptions
6-3A-6: Other Exceptions
6-3A-7: Notice To Property Owners And Utility Companies
6-3A-8: Responsibility Of Utility Companies
6-3A-9: Responsibility Of Property Owners
6-3A-10: Responsibility Of City
6-3A-11: Extension Of Time
6-3A-0: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall be defined as set forth
herein:
   COMMISSION: The public utilities commission of the state of California.
   POLES, OVERHEAD WIRES AND ASSOCIATED OVERHEAD STRUCTURES: Poles, towers,
supports, wires, conductors, guys, stubs, platforms, crossarms, braces,
transformers, insulators, cutouts, switches, communication circuit, appliances,
attachments and appurtenances located aboveground within a district and used or
useful in supplying electric, communication or similar or associated service.
   UNDERGROUND UTILITY DISTRICT OR DISTRICT: That area in the city within which
poles, overhead wires and associated overhead structures are prohibited as such
area is described in a resolution adopted pursuant to the provisions of section
6-3A-3 of this article.
   UTILITY: Includes all persons or entities supplying electric, communication
or similar or associated service by means of electrical materials or devices.
(1960 Code)
6-3A-1: PUBLIC HEARING BY COUNCIL:
The council may from time to time call public hearings to ascertain whether the
public necessity, health, safety or welfare requires the removal of poles,
overhead wires and associated overhead structures within designated areas of
the city and the underground installation of wires and facilities for supplying
electric, communication or similar or associated service. The city clerk shall
notify all affected property owners as shown on the last equalized assessment
roll and utilities concerned by mail of the time and place of such hearings at
least ten (10) days prior to the date thereof. Each such hearing shall be open
to the public and may be continued from time to time. At such hearing all
persons interested shall be given an opportunity to be heard. The decision of
the council shall be final and conclusive. (1960 Code)
6-3A-2: REPORT BY CITY ENGINEER:
Prior to holding such public hearing, the city engineer shall consult all
affected utilities and shall prepare a report for submission at such hearing
containing, among other information, the extent of such utilities participation
and estimates of the total costs to the city and affected property owners. Such
report shall also contain an estimate of the time required to complete such
underground installation and removal of overhead facilities. (1960 Code)
6-3A-3: DESIGNATION OF UNDERGROUND UTILITY DISTRICTS:
If, after any such public hearing, the council finds that the public necessity,
health, safety or welfare requires such removal and such underground
installation with a designated area, the council shall, by resolution, declare
such designated areas an underground utility district and order such removal
and underground installation. Such resolution shall include a description of
the area comprising such district and shall fix the time within which such
removal and underground installation shall be accomplished and within which
affected property owners must be ready to receive underground service. A
reasonable time shall be allowed for such removal and underground installation,
having due regard for the availability of labor, materials and equipment
necessary for such removal and for the installation of such underground
facilities as may be occasioned thereby. (1960 Code)
6-3A-4: UNLAWFUL ACTS:
Whenever the council creates an underground utility district and orders the
removal of poles, overhead wires and associated overhead structures therein as
provided in section
6-3A-3 of this article, it shall be unlawful for any person or utility to
erect, construct, place, keep, maintain, continue, employ or operate poles,
overhead wires and associated overhead structures in the district after the
date when said overhead facilities are required to be removed by such
resolution, except as said overhead facilities may be required to furnish
service to an owner or occupant of property prior to the performance of such
owner or occupant of the underground work necessary for such owner or occupant
to continue to receive utility services as provided in section
6-3A-9 of this article, and for such reasonable time required to remove said
facilities after said work has been performed, and except as otherwise provided
in this article. (1960 Code)
6-3A-5: EXCEPTIONS:
Notwithstanding the provisions of this article, overhead facilities may be
installed and maintained for a period of not to exceed thirty (30) days,
without authority of the city engineer in order to provide emergency service.
The city engineer may grant special permission, on such terms as he may deem
appropriate, in cases of unusual circumstances and without discrimination as to
any person or utility, to erect, construct, install, maintain, use or operate
poles, overhead wires and associated overhead structures for not to exceed
another thirty (30) days. Any further extensions shall be granted only by the
city council. (1960 Code)
6-3A-6: OTHER EXCEPTIONS:
In any resolution adopted pursuant to section
6-3A-3 of this article, the city may authorize any or all of the following
exceptions:
   A.   Any municipal facilities or equipment installed under the supervision
and to the satisfaction of the city engineer;
   B.   Poles or electroliers used exclusively for street lighting;
   C.   Overhead wires (exclusive of supporting structures) crossing any
portion of a district within which overhead wires have been prohibited or
connecting to buildings on the perimeter of a district, when such wires
originate in an area from which poles, overhead wires and associated overhead
structures are not prohibited;
   D.   Poles, overhead wires and associated overhead structures used for the
transmission of electric energy at nominal voltages in excess of thirty four
thousand five hundred (34,500) volts;
   E.   Overhead wires attached to the exterior surface of a building by means
of a bracket or other fixture and extending from one location on the building
to another location on the same building or to an adjacent building without
crossing any public street;
   F.   Antennas, associated equipment and supporting structures, used by a
utility for furnishing communication services;
   G.   Equipment appurtenant to underground facilities such as surface mounted
transformers, pedestal mounted terminal boxes and meter cabinets and concealed
ducts;
   H.   Temporary poles, overhead wires and associated overhead structures used
or to be used in conjunction with construction projects. (1960 Code)
6-3A-7: NOTICE TO PROPERTY OWNERS AND UTILITY COMPANIES:
Within ten (10) days after the effective date of a resolution adopted pursuant
to section
6-3A-3 of this article, the city clerk shall notify all affected utilities and
all persons owning real property within the district created by said resolution
of the adoption thereof. Said city clerk shall further notify such affected
property owners of the necessity that, if they or any person occupying such
property desire to continue to receive electric, communication or similar or
associated service, they or such occupant shall provide all necessary facility
changes on their premises so as to receive such service from the lines of the
supplying utility or utilities at a new location, subject to the applicable
rules, regulations and tariffs of the respective utility or utilities on file
with the commission.
Notification by the city clerk shall be made by mailing a copy of the
resolution adopted pursuant to section
6-3A-3 of this article, together with a copy of the ordinance, to affected
property owners as such are shown on the last equalized assessment roll and to
the affected utilities. (1960 Code)
6-3A-8: RESPONSIBILITY OF UTILITY COMPANIES:
If underground construction is necessary to provide utility service within a
district created by any resolution adopted pursuant to section
6-3A-3 of this article, the supplying utility shall furnish that portion of the
conduits, conductors and associated equipment required to be furnished by it
under its applicable rules, regulations and tariffs on file with the
commission. (1960 Code)
6-3A-9: RESPONSIBILITY OF PROPERTY OWNERS:
The responsibilities of real property owners or others having control over real
property, shall be as follows:
   A.   Every person owning, operating, leasing, occupying or renting a
building or structure within a district shall construct and provide that
portion of the service connection on his property between the facilities
referred to in section
6-3A-8 of this article, and the termination facility on or within said building
or structure being served all in accordance with the applicable rules,
regulations and tariffs of the respective utility or utilities on file with the
commission;
   B.   In the event any person owning, operating, leasing, occupying or
renting said property does not comply with the provisions of subsection A of
this section within the time provided for the resolution enacted pursuant to
section 6-3A-3 of this article, the city engineer may post written notice on
the property being served and thirty (30) days thereafter may authorize the
disconnection and removal of any and all overhead service wires and associated
facilities supplying utility service to said property;
   C.   Every person owning, operating, leasing, occupying or renting a
building or structure within a district shall construct and provide that
portion of the service connection on his property between the facilities
referred to in section
6-3A-8 of this article and the termination facility on or within the time
provided for in the resolution enacted pursuant to section
6-3A-3 of this article, the city engineer shall give notice in writing to the
person in possession of such premises, and a notice in writing to the owner
thereof as shown on the last equalized assessment roll, to provide the require
underground facilities within ten (10) days after receipt of such notice;
   D.   The notice to provide the required underground facilities may be given
either by personal service or by mail. In case of service by mail on either of
such persons, the notice must be deposited in the United States mail in a
sealed envelope with postage prepaid, addressed to the person in possession of
such premises at such premises, and the notice must be addressed to the owner
thereof as such owner's name appears, and must be addressed to such owner's
last known address as the same appears on the last equalized assessment roll
and when no address appears, to general delivery, city of Temple City. If
notice is given by mail, such notice shall be deemed to have been received by
the person to whom it has been sent within forty eight (48) hours after the
mailing thereof. If notice is given by mail to either the owner or occupant of
such premises, the city engineer shall, within forty eight (48) hours after the
mailing thereof, cause a copy thereof, printed on a card not less than eight
inches by ten inches (8" x 10") in size, to be posted in a conspicuous place on
said premises;
   E.   The notice given by the city engineer to provide the required
underground facilities shall particularly specify what work is required to be
done, and shall state that if said work is not completed within thirty (30)
days after receipt of such notice, the city engineer will provide such required
underground facilities, in which case the cost and expense thereof will be
assessed against the property benefited and become a lien upon such property;
   F.   If upon the expiration of the thirty (30) day period, the said required
underground facilities have not been provided, the city engineer shall
forthwith proceed to do the work, provided, however, if such premises are
unoccupied and no electric or communications services are being furnished
thereto, the city engineer may in lieu of providing the required underground
facilities, authorize the disconnection and removal of any and all overhead
service wires an associated facilities supplying utility services to said
property. Upon completion of the work by the city engineer, he shall file a
written report with the city council setting for the fact that the required
underground facilities have been provided and the cost thereof, together with a
legal description of the property against which such cost is to be assessed.
The council shall thereupon fix a time and place for hearing protests against
the assessment of the cost of such work upon such premises, which said time
shall not be less than ten (10) days thereafter;
   G.   The city engineer shall forthwith, upon the time for hearing such
protests having been fixed, give a notice in writing to the person in
possession of such premises, and a notice in writing thereof to the owner
thereof, in the manner hereinabove provided for the giving of the notice to
provided the required underground facilities, of the time and place that the
council will pass upon such report and will hear protests against such
assessment. Such notice shall also set forth the amount of the proposed
assessment;
   H.   Upon the date and hour set for the hearing of protests, the council
shall hear and consider the report and all protests, if there be any, and then
proceed to affirm, modify or reject the assessment;
   I.   If any assessment is not paid within five (5) days after its
confirmation by the council, the amount of the assessment shall become a lien
upon the property against which the assessment is made by the city engineer,
and the city engineer is directed to turn over to the assessor and tax
collector a notice of lien on each of said properties on which the assessment
has not been paid, and said assessor and tax collector shall add the amount of
said assessment to the next regular bill for taxes levied against the premises
upon which said assessment was not paid. Said assessment shall be due and
payable at the same time as said property taxes are due and payable, and if not
paid when due and payable shall bear interest at the rate of six percent (6%)
per annum. (1960 Code)
6-3A-10: RESPONSIBILITY OF CITY:
City shall remove at its own expense all city owned equipment from all poles
required to be removed hereunder in ample time to enable the owner or user of
such poles to remove the same within the time specified in the resolution
enacted pursuant to section
6-3A-3 of this article. (1960 Code)
6-3A-11: EXTENSION OF TIME:
In the event that any act required by this article or by a resolution adopted
pursuant to section
6-3A-3 of this article cannot be performed within the time provided on account
of shortage of materials, war, restraint by public authorities, strikes, labor
disturbances, civil disobedience or any other circumstances, beyond the control
of the actor, then the time within which such act will be accomplished shall be
extended for a period equivalent to the time of such limitation. (1960 Code)
ARTICLE B. UNDERGROUNDING OF UTILITIES
SECTION:
6-3B-0: Undergrounding Of Utilities
6-3B-1: Surface Equipment
6-3B-2: Responsibility For Compliance
6-3B-3: Exceptions
6-3B-4: Granting Exceptions
6-3B-5: Decision Of Commission
6-3B-6: Appeals
6-3B-0: UNDERGROUNDING OF UTILITIES:
Except where undergrounding of utilities shall be required by districts
established pursuant to the provisions of this title, commencing with section
6-3A-0 of this chapter, the undergrounding of utility facilities shall be
required, except as hereinafter provided, in all of the following
circumstances, in accordance with all applicable rules, regulations and tariffs
of the respective utility companies providing such service:
   A.   All land subdivisions of five (5) lots or more; and
   B.   All new multiple residential uses consisting of five (5) or more
dwelling units; and
   C.   All new commercial or manufacturing uses. (1960 Code)
6-3B-1: SURFACE EQUIPMENT:
Notwithstanding the provisions of section
6-3B-0 of this article, underground installation shall not be required for
surface mounted transformers, pedestal mounted terminal boxes, meter cabinets,
concealed ducts in underground systems, and other related accessory
appurtenances and equipment. Provided, however, that any of the aforesaid
facilities which are not located underground shall not be located within any
front yard area. (1960 Code)
6-3B-2: RESPONSIBILITY FOR COMPLIANCE:
The owner and/or occupant of any property to which section
6-3B-0 of this article applies shall be responsible for compliance therewith,
including, but not limited to, obtaining the installation of required
facilities by the appropriate utility company or companies in accordance with
applicable rules and regulations set forth by the public utilities commission
of the state of California. (1960 Code)
6-3B-3: EXCEPTIONS:
The owner and/or occupant of any property may, within ten (10) days of the
mailing of notice by the planning director requiring compliance with the
provisions of section
6-3B-0 of this article, file a written request for an exemption from the
provisions thereof with the secretary of the planning commission. (1960 Code)
6-3B-4: GRANTING EXCEPTIONS:
The matter shall thereafter be heard by the planning commission which may grant
an exemption from compliance with the provisions of section
6-3B-0 of this article if it finds that compliance with the provisions of
section
6-3B-0 of this article would render the proposed development economically
unfeasible. (1960 Code)
6-3B-5: DECISION OF COMMISSION:
The decision of the planning commission shall be final and conclusive at twelve
o'clock (12:00) noon of the tenth day following the date of its decision in the
absence of a written appeal in the manner hereinafter specified. Upon the
filing of an appeal in the manner hereinafter set forth, the decision of the
planning commission shall be suspended and of no force or effect. (1960 Code)
6-3B-6: APPEALS:
Any applicant who is aggrieved by the decision of the planning commission may
file a written letter of appeal with the city clerk together with a filing and
processing fee of fifty dollars ($50.00), prior to the planning commission's
action becoming final. Upon receipt of such a written letter of appeal,
together with said fee, the matter shall be placed upon the council agenda at
the next regularly scheduled meeting of the council at which time the matter
shall be heard by the city council and a decision rendered thereon in
accordance with the provisions specified in sections hereof. The decision of
the city council shall be final. (1960 Code)
ARTICLE C. COMMUNITY ANTENNA TELEVISION SYSTEMS
SECTION:
6-3C-0: Authority
6-3C-1: Findings
6-3C-2: Short Title
6-3C-3: Definitions
6-3C-4: Franchise Purposes
6-3C-5: Franchise Required
6-3C-6: Term Of Franchise
6-3C-7: Franchise Territory
6-3C-8: Federal Or State Jurisdiction
6-3C-9: Franchise Nontransferable
6-3C-10: Geographical Coverage
6-3C-11: Nonexclusive Franchise
6-3C-12: Multiple Franchises
6-3C-13: Filing Of Applications
6-3C-14: Applications, Contents
6-3C-15: Consideration Of Initial Applications
6-3C-16: Franchise Renewal
6-3C-17: Operational Standards
6-3C-18: Service Standards
6-3C-19: Billing And Information Standards
6-3C-20: Verification Of Compliance With Standards
6-3C-21: Subscriber Complaints And Disputes
6-3C-22: Other Requirements
6-3C-23: Franchise Fee
6-3C-24: Security Fund
6-3C-25: System Construction
6-3C-26: Multiple Franchises
6-3C-27: Applicable Technical Standards
6-3C-28: Noncompliance With Standards
6-3C-29: Hold Harmless
6-3C-30: Insurance
6-3C-31: Records Required
6-3C-32: Annual Reports
6-3C-33: Opinion Survey
6-3C-34: Annual Review
6-3C-35: Special Review
6-3C-36: Special Evaluation Sessions
6-3C-37: Remedies For Violations
6-3C-38: Procedure For Remedying Franchise Violations
6-3C-39: Grantor's Power To Revoke
6-3C-40: Appeal Of Finding Of Revocation
6-3C-41: Procedures Applicable To Arbitration
6-3C-42: Force Majeure, Grantee's Inability To Perform
6-3C-43: Abandonment Or Removal
6-3C-44: Restoration By Grantor; Reimbursement Of Costs
6-3C-45: Extended Operation And Continuity Of Services
6-3C-46: Receivership And Foreclosure
6-3C-47: Reservation Of Grantor Rights
6-3C-48: Waiver
6-3C-49: Rights Of Individuals
6-3C-50: Separability
6-3C-0: AUTHORITY:
The city of Temple City, pursuant to applicable federal and state law, is
authorized to grant one or more nonexclusive franchises to construct, operate,
maintain and reconstruct cable television systems within the city limits. (Ord.
96-793)
6-3C-1: FINDINGS:
The city council finds that the development of cable television and
telecommunications systems has the potential of having great benefit and impact
upon the residents of Temple City. Because of the complex and rapidly changing
technology associated with cable television, the city council further finds
that the public convenience, safety and general welfare can best be served by
establishing regulatory powers which should be vested in the city or such
persons as the city may designate. It is the intent of this article and
subsequent amendments to provide for and specify the means to attain the best
possible cable television and telecommunications service to the public and any
franchises issued pursuant to this article shall be deemed to include this as
an integral finding thereof. It is the further intent of this article to
establish regulatory provisions that permit the city to regulate cable
television and telecommunications franchises to the extent permitted by federal
and state law, including, but not limited to, the federal cable communications
policy act of 1984, the federal cable television consumer protection and
competition act of 1992, the telecommunications act of 1996, applicable federal
communications commission regulations and applicable California law. (Ord. 96-
793)
6-3C-2: SHORT TITLE:
This article shall constitute the CABLE TELEVISION AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS
REGULATORY ORDINANCE of the city of Temple City and may be referred to as such.
(Ord. 96-793)
6-3C-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this article, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meaning given herein. Words used in the present
tense include the future, words in the plural number include the singular
number, and words in the singular number include the plural number. Words not
defined shall be given their common and ordinary meaning.
   BASIC CABLE SERVICE: Any service tier which includes the retransmission of
local television broadcast signals.
   CABLE SERVICE: The total of the following:
   A.   The one-way transmission to subscribers of video programming or other
programming service; and
   B.   Subscriber interaction, if any, which is required for the selection of
such video programming or other programming service.
   CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEM OR SYSTEM (Also Referred To As CABLE COMMUNICATIONS
SYSTEM OR CABLE SYSTEM): A facility consisting of a set of closed transmission
paths and associated signal generation, reception, and control equipment, that
is designed to provide cable service which includes video programming and any
other lawful telecommunications services and which is provided to multiple
subscribers within a community, but such term does not include:
   A.   A facility that serves only to transmit television signals of one or
more television broadcast stations;
   B.   A facility that serves only subscribers in one or more multiple-unit
dwellings under common ownership, control, or management, unless such facility
uses any public rights of way;
   C.   A facility of a common carrier, except that such facility shall be
considered a cable system to the extent such facility is used in the
transmission of video programming directly to subscribers; or
   D.   Any facilities of any electric utility used solely for operating its
electric utility system.
   CHANNEL OR CABLE CHANNEL: A portion of the electromagnetic frequency
spectrum which is used in a cable system which is capable of delivering a
television channel as defined by the federal communications commission.
   COUNCIL: The city council of the city of Temple City.
   FRANCHISE: An initial authorization, or renewal thereof, issued by the city
council, whether such authorization is designated as a franchise, permit,
license, resolution, contract, certificate, agreement, or otherwise, which
authorizes the construction or operation of a cable system. Any such
authorization, in whatever form granted, shall not supersede the requirement to
obtain any other license or permit required for the privilege of transacting
business within the city as required by the other ordinances and laws of the
city.
   FRANCHISE AGREEMENT: A franchise grant ordinance or a contractual agreement,
containing the specific provisions of the franchise granted, including
references, specifications, requirements and other related matters.
   FRANCHISE FEE: Any fee or assessment of any kind imposed by the city on a
grantee as compensation for the grantee's use of the public rights of way. The
term "franchise fee" does not include:
   A.   Any tax, fee or assessment of general applicability (including any such
tax, fee, or assessment imposed on both utilities and cable operators or their
services, but not including a tax, fee or assessment which is unduly
discriminatory against cable operators or cable subscribers);
   B.   Capital costs which are required by the franchise to be incurred by
grantee for public, educational, or governmental access facilities;
   C.   Requirements or charges incidental to the awarding or enforcing of the
franchise, including payments for bonds, security funds, letters of credit,
insurance, indemnification, penalties, or liquidated damages; or
   D.   Any fee imposed under title 17, United States Code.
   GRANTEE: Any "person" receiving a franchise pursuant to this article and
under the granting franchise ordinance or agreement, and its lawful successor,
transferee or assignee.
   GRANTOR OR CITY: The city of Temple City as represented by the council or
any delegate, acting within the scope of its jurisdiction.
   GROSS ANNUAL CABLE SERVICE REVENUES: The annual gross revenues received by a
grantee from all sources of operations of the cable television system within
the city utilizing the public streets and rights of way for which a franchise
is required in order to deliver such cable service, excluding refundable
deposits, rebates or credits, except that any sales, excise or other taxes or
charges collected for direct pass through to local, state or federal government
shall not be included. Revenues collected as franchise fees from subscribers
shall not be included in gross annual cable service revenues pending any
possible litigation of the FCC's decision with respect to the franchise fee
issue in United Artists Cable Of Baltimore, 77 RR 2d 1306 (released April 6,
1995). If the final decision (following all judicial appeals) in this case
results in a determination that franchise fees should be included in gross
annual cable service revenues, then grantee shall pay any underpayment of
franchise fees owed to the grantor based on such determination, within ninety
(90) days of the final decision.
   GROSS ANNUAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE REVENUES: The annual revenues
received by a grantee from the operation of the cable system to provide
telecommunications services, other than cable service.
   INSTALLATION: The connection of the system to subscribers' terminals, and
the provision of service.
   PERSON: An individual, partnership, association, joint stock company, trust,
corporation or governmental entity.
   PUBLIC, EDUCATIONAL OR GOVERNMENT ACCESS FACILITIES OR PEG ACCESS
FACILITIES: The total of the following:
   A.   Channel capacity designated for noncommercial public, educational, or
government use; and
   B.   Facilities and equipment for the use of such channel capacity.
SECTION: Any section, subsection or provision of this article.
   SERVICE AREA OR FRANCHISE AREA: The entire geographic area within the city
as it is now constituted or may in the future be constituted, unless otherwise
specified in the franchise granting ordinance or agreement.
   SERVICE TIER: A category of cable service or other services provided by a
grantee and for which a separate rate is charged by the grantee.
   STATE: The state of California.
   STREET OR PUBLIC WAY: Each of the following which have been dedicated to the
public or are hereafter dedicated to the public and maintained under public
authority or by others and located within the city limits: streets, roadways,
highways, avenues, lanes, alleys, sidewalks, easements, rights of way and
similar public property and areas that the grantor shall permit to be included
within the definition of street from time to time.
   SUBSCRIBER OR CUSTOMER OR CONSUMER: Any person who or which elects to
subscribe to, for any purpose, a service provided by the grantee by means of or
in connection with the cable system, and who pays the charges therefor. (Ord.
96-793)
6-3C-4: FRANCHISE PURPOSES:
A franchise granted by the city under the provisions of this article shall
encompass the following purposes:
   A.   To engage in the business of providing cable service, and such other
telecommunications service as may be permitted by law, which grantee chooses to
provide to subscribers within the designated service area.
   B.   To erect, install, construct, repair, rebuild, reconstruct, replace,
maintain, and retain, cable lines, related electronic equipment, supporting
structures, appurtenances, and other property in connection with the operation
of the cable system in, on, over, under, upon, along and across streets or
other public places within the designated service area.
   C.   To maintain and operate said franchise properties for the origination,
reception, transmission, amplification, and distribution of television and
radio signals and for the delivery of cable services, and such other services
as may be permitted by law.
   D.   To set forth the obligations of a grantee under the franchise. (Ord.
96-793)
6-3C-5: FRANCHISE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, install or operate a cable
television system in the city within any public street without a properly
granted franchise awarded pursuant to the provisions of this article. (Ord. 96-
793)
6-3C-6: TERM OF FRANCHISE:
   A.   A franchise granted hereunder shall be for a term established in the
franchise agreement, commencing on the grantor's adoption of an ordinance or
resolution authorizing the franchise.
   B.   A franchise granted hereunder may be renewed upon application by the
grantee pursuant to the provisions of applicable state and federal law and of
this article. (Ord. 96-793)
6-3C-7: FRANCHISE TERRITORY:
Any franchise shall be valid within all the territorial limits of the city, and
within any area added to the city during the term of the franchise, unless
otherwise specified in the franchise granting ordinance or agreement. (Ord. 96-
793)
6-3C-8: FEDERAL OR STATE JURISDICTION:
This article shall be construed in a manner consistent with all applicable
federal and state laws, and shall apply to all franchises granted or renewed
after the effective date of this article to the extent permitted by applicable
law. (Ord. 96-793)
6-3C-9: FRANCHISE NONTRANSFERABLE:
   A.   Grantee shall not sell, transfer, lease, assign, sublet or dispose of,
in whole or in part, either by forced or involuntary sale, or by ordinary sale,
contract, consolidation or otherwise, the franchise or any of the rights or
privileges therein granted, without the prior consent of the council and then
only upon such terms and conditions as may be prescribed by the council, which
consent shall not be unreasonably denied or delayed. Any attempt to sell,
transfer, lease, assign or otherwise dispose of the franchise without the
consent of the council shall be null and void. The granting of a security
interest in any grantee assets, or any mortgage or other hypothecation, shall
not be considered a transfer for the purposes of this section.
   B.   The requirements of subsection A of this section shall apply to any
change in control of grantee. The word "control" as used herein is not limited
to major stockholders or partnership interests, but includes actual working
control in whatever manner exercised. In the event that grantee is a
corporation, prior authorization of the council shall be required where
ownership or control of more than ten percent (10%) of the voting stock of
grantee is acquired by a person or group of persons acting in concert, none of
whom own or control the voting stock of the grantee as of the effective date of
the franchise, singularly or collectively.
   C.   Grantee shall notify grantor in writing of any foreclosure or any other
judicial sale of all or a substantial part of the franchise property of the
grantee or upon the termination of any lease or interest covering all or a
substantial part of said franchise property. Such notification shall be
considered by grantor as notice that a change in control of ownership of the
franchise has taken place and the provisions under this section governing the
consent of grantor to such change in control of ownership shall apply.
   D.   For the purpose of determining whether it shall consent to such change,
transfer, or acquisition of control, grantor may inquire into the
qualifications of the prospective transferee or controlling party, and grantee
shall assist grantor in such inquiry. In seeking grantor's consent to any
change of ownership or control, grantee shall have the responsibility of
insuring that the grantee and/or the proposed transferee complete an
application in accordance with federal communications commission form 394 or
equivalent. An application shall be submitted to grantor not less than one
hundred twenty (120) days prior to the proposed date of transfer. The
transferee shall be required to establish that it possesses the qualifications
and financial and technical capability to operate and maintain the system and
comply with all franchise requirements for the remainder of the term of the
franchise. If the legal, financial, character, and technical qualifications of
the applicant are satisfactory, the grantor shall consent to the transfer of
the franchise. The consent of the grantor to such transfer shall not be
unreasonably denied or delayed.
   E.   Any financial institution having a pledge of the grantee or its assets
for the advancement of money for the construction and/or operation of the
franchise shall have the right to notify the grantor that it or its designee
satisfactory to the grantor shall take control of and operate the cable
television system, in the event of a grantee default of its financial
obligations. Further, said financial institution shall also submit a plan for
such operation within ninety (90) days of assuming such control that will
insure continued service and compliance with all franchise requirements during
the term the financial institution exercises control over the system. The
financial institution shall not exercise control over the system for a period
exceeding one year unless extended by the grantor in its discretion and during
said period of time it shall have the right to petition the grantor to transfer
the franchise to another grantee.
   F.   Upon transfer, grantee shall reimburse grantor for grantor's reasonable
out of pocket processing and review expenses in connection with the transfer of
the franchise or of control of the franchise. Any such reimbursement shall not
be charged against any franchise fee due to grantor during the term of the
franchise. (Ord. 96-793)
6-3C-10: GEOGRAPHICAL COVERAGE:
   A.   Grantee shall design, construct and maintain the cable television
system to have the capability to pass every dwelling unit in the city, subject
to any service area line extension requirements of the franchise agreement.
   B.   After service has been established by activating trunk and/or
distribution cables for any service area, grantee shall provide service to any
requesting subscriber within that service area within thirty (30) days from the
date of request, provided that the grantee is able to secure all rights of way
necessary to extend service to such subscriber within such thirty (30) day
period on reasonable terms and conditions. (Ord. 96-793)
6-3C-11: NONEXCLUSIVE FRANCHISE:
Any franchise granted shall be nonexclusive. The grantor specifically reserves
the right to grant, at any time, such additional franchises for a cable
television system or any component thereof, as it deems appropriate, subject to
applicable state and federal law, provided that if the grantor grants an
additional franchise on terms more favorable to the second grantee (whether by
the grant of greater benefits or the imposition of lesser obligations), or if
another entity utilizing the public rights of way offers service competitive
with grantee then the initial grantee shall have the right to renegotiate its
franchise to incorporate the more favorable terms and/or reduce its obligations
to achieve competitively neutral and nondiscriminatory treatment. (Ord. 96-793)
6-3C-12: MULTIPLE FRANCHISES:
   A.   Grantor may grant any number of franchises subject to applicable state
or federal law. Grantor may limit the number of franchises granted, based upon,
but not necessarily limited to, the requirements of applicable law and specific
local considerations, such as:
      1.   The capacity of the public rights of way to accommodate multiple
cables in addition to the cables, conduits and pipes of the utility systems,
such as electrical power, telephone, gas and sewerage.
      2.   The benefits that may accrue to cable subscribers as a result of
cable system competition, such as lower rates and improved service.
      3.   The disadvantages that may result from cable system competition,
such as the requirement for multiple pedestals on residents' property, and the
disruption arising from numerous excavations of the rights of way.
   B.   Developers of new residential housing with underground utilities shall
provide conduit to accommodate cables for at least two (2) cable systems and
dedicate the use of such conduit to the city.
   C.   Grantor may require that any new grantee be responsible for its own
underground trenching and the costs associated therewith, if, in grantor's
opinion, the rights of way in any particular area cannot feasibly and
reasonably accommodate additional cables. (Ord. 96-793)
6-3C-13: FILING OF APPLICATIONS:
Any person desiring an initial franchise for a cable television system shall
file an application with the city. A reasonable nonrefundable application fee
established by the city shall accompany the application to cover all costs
associated with processing and reviewing the application, including, without
limitation, costs of administrative review, financial, legal and technical
evaluation of the applicant, consultants (including technical and legal experts
and all costs incurred by such experts), notice and publication requirements
with respect to the consideration of the application and document preparation
expenses. In the event such costs exceed the application fee, the selected
applicant(s) shall pay the difference to the city within thirty (30) days
following receipt of an itemized statement of such costs. (Ord. 96-793)
6-3C-14: APPLICATIONS, CONTENTS:
An application for an initial franchise for a cable television system shall
contain, where applicable:
   A.   A statement as to the proposed franchise and service area;
   B.   Resume of prior history of applicant, including the expertise of
applicant in the cable television field;
   C.   List of the partners, general and limited, of the applicant, if a
partnership, or the percentage of stock owned or controlled by each
stockholder, if a corporation;
   D.   List of officers, directors and managing employees of applicant,
together with a description of the background of each such person;
   E.   The names and addresses of any parent or subsidiary of applicant or any
other business entity owning or controlling applicant in whole or in part, or
owned or controlled in whole or in part by applicant;
   F.   A current financial statement of applicant verified by a certified
public accountant audit or otherwise certified to be true, complete and correct
to the reasonable satisfaction of the city;
   G.   Proposed construction and service schedule;
   H.   Any reasonable additional information that the city deems applicable.
(Ord. 96-793)
6-3C-15: CONSIDERATION OF INITIAL APPLICATIONS:
   A.   Upon receipt of any application for an initial franchise, the city's
chief administrator or a delegate shall prepare a report and make
recommendations respecting such application to the city council.
   B.   A public hearing shall be set prior to any initial franchise grant, at
a time and date approved by the council. Within thirty (30) days after the
close of the hearing, the council shall make a decision based upon the evidence
received at the hearing as to whether or not the franchise(s) should be
granted, and, if granted, subject to what conditions. The council may grant one
or more franchises, or may decline to grant any franchise. (Ord. 96-793)
6-3C-16: FRANCHISE RENEWAL:
Franchise renewals shall be in accordance with applicable law. Grantor and
grantee, by mutual consent, may enter into renewal negotiations at any time
during the term of the franchise. (Ord. 96-793)
6-3C-17: OPERATIONAL STANDARDS:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided in the franchise agreement, grantee shall
maintain the necessary facilities, equipment and personnel to comply with the
following consumer protection and service standards under normal conditions of
operation:
      1.   Sufficient toll free telephone line capacity during normal business
hours to assure that telephone calls shall be answered before the fourth ring;
telephone answer time by a customer service representative, including wait
time, shall not exceed thirty (30) seconds; and callers needing to be
transferred shall not be required to wait more than thirty (30) seconds before
being connected to a service representative. Under normal operating conditions,
a caller shall receive a busy signal less than three percent (3%) of the time.
      2.   Emergency toll free telephone line capacity on a twenty four (24)
hour basis, including weekends and holidays. After normal business hours, the
telephone calls may be answered by a service or an automated response system,
including an answering machine. Calls received after normal business hours must
be responded to by a trained company representative on the next business day.
      3.   A conveniently located local business and service and/or payment
office open during normal business hours at least eight (8) hours daily, and at
least four (4) hours weekly on evenings or weekends, and adequately staffed to
accept subscriber payments and respond to service requests and complaints.
      4.   An emergency system maintenance and repair staff, capable of
responding to and repairing major system malfunction on a twenty four (24) hour
per day basis.
      5.   An installation staff, capable of installing service to any
subscriber requiring a standard installation within seven (7) days after
receipt of a request, in all areas where trunk and feeder cable have been
activated. "Standard installations" shall be those that are located up to one
hundred fifty feet (150') from the existing distribution system, unless
otherwise defined in any franchise agreement.
      6.   Grantee shall schedule, within a specified four (4) hour time period
during normal business hours, all appointments with subscribers for
installation of service, service calls and other activities at the subscriber
location. Grantee may schedule installation and service calls outside of normal
business hours for the express convenience of the customer. Grantee shall not
cancel an appointment with a customer after the close of business on the
business day prior to the scheduled appointment. If a grantee representative is
running late for an appointment with a customer and will not be able to keep
the appointment as scheduled, the customer shall be contacted and the
appointment rescheduled, as necessary, at a time which is convenient for the
customer.
   B.   The standards of subsections A1 through A6 of this section shall be met
not less than ninety percent (90%) of the time measured on a quarterly basis.
(Ord. 96-793)
6-3C-18: SERVICE STANDARDS:
   A.   Grantee shall render efficient service, make repairs promptly, and
interrupt service only for good cause and for the shortest time possible.
Scheduled interruptions, insofar as possible, shall be preceded by notice and
shall occur during a period of minimum use of the cable system, preferably
between twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and six o'clock (6:00) A.M.
   B.   The grantee shall maintain a repair force of technicians normally
capable of responding to subscriber requests for service within the following
time frames:
      1.   For A System Outage: Within two (2) hours, including weekends, of
receiving subscriber calls or requests for service which by number identify a
system outage of sound or picture of one or more channels, affecting at least
ten percent (10%) of the subscribers of the system.
      2.   For An Isolated Outage: Within twenty four (24) hours, including
weekends, of receiving requests for service identifying an isolated outage of
sound or picture for one or more channels that affects three (3) or more
subscribers. On weekends, an outage affecting fewer than three (3) subscribers
shall result in a service call no later than the following Monday morning.
      3.   For Inferior Signal Quality: Within forty eight (48) hours,
excluding Sundays and holidays, of receiving a request for service identifying
a problem concerning picture or sound quality.
   C.   Grantee shall be deemed to have responded to a request for service
under the provisions of this section when a technician arrives at the service
location and begins work on the problem. In the case of a subscriber not being
home when the technician arrives, the technician shall leave written
notification of arrival.
   D.   Grantee shall not charge for the repair or replacement of defective or
malfunctioning equipment provided by grantee to subscribers, unless the defect
was caused by the subscriber.
   E.   Unless excused, grantee shall determine the nature of the problem
within forty eight (48) hours of beginning work and resolve all cable system
related problems within five (5) business days unless technically infeasible.
(Ord. 96-793)
6-3C-19: BILLING AND INFORMATION STANDARDS:
   A.   Subscriber bills shall be clear, concise and understandable. Bills
shall be fully itemized, with itemizations including, but not limited to, basic
and premium service charges and equipment charges. Bills shall also clearly
delineate all activity during the billing period, including optional charges,
rebates and credits.
   B.   In case of a billing dispute, the grantee shall respond to a written
complaint from a subscriber within thirty (30) days.
   C.   Upon request, grantee shall provide credits or refunds to subscribers
whose service has been interrupted for four (4) or more hours. All credits for
service shall be issued no later than the customer's next billing cycle
following the determination that a credit is warranted. For subscribers
terminating service, refunds shall be issued promptly, but no later than thirty
(30) days after the return of any grantee supplied equipment.
   D.   Grantee shall provide written information on each of the following
areas at the time of the installation of service, at least annually to all
subscribers, and at any time upon request:
      1.   Products and services offered; and
      2.   Prices and options for programming services and conditions of
subscription to programming and other services; and
      3.   Installation and service maintenance policies; and
      4.   Instructions on how to use the cable service; and
      5.   Channel positions of programming carried on the system; and
      6.   Billing and complaint procedures, including the address and
telephone number of the grantor office designated for dealing with cable
related issues.
   E.   Subscribers shall be notified of any changes in rates, programming
services or channel positions as soon as possible through announcements on the
cable system and in writing. Notice must be given to subscribers a minimum of
thirty (30) days in advance of such changes if the change is within the control
of the grantee. In additions, grantee shall notify subscribers thirty (30) days
in advance of any significant changes in the information required in subsection
D of this section. (Ord. 96-793)
6-3C-20: VERIFICATION OF COMPLIANCE WITH STANDARDS:
   A.   Upon five (5) days' notice, grantee shall establish its compliance with
any or all of the standards required above. Grantee shall provide sufficient
documentation to permit grantor to verify the compliance.
   B.   A repeated and verifiable pattern of noncompliance with the consumer
protection standards of section
6-3C-18 of this article, after grantee's receipt of due notice and an
opportunity to cure, may be deemed a material breach of the franchise
agreement. (Ord. 96-793)
6-3C-21: SUBSCRIBER COMPLAINTS AND DISPUTES:
   A.   Grantee shall establish written procedures for receiving, acting upon
and resolving subscriber complaints without intervention by the grantor. The
written procedures shall prescribe the manner in which a subscriber may submit
a complaint either orally or in writing specifying the subscriber's grounds for
dissatisfaction. Grantee shall file a copy of these procedures with grantor.
Said procedures shall include a requirement that grantee respond to any written
complaint from a subscriber within thirty (30) days of receipt.
   B.   Grantor shall have the right to review grantee's response to subscriber
complaints in order to determine grantee's compliance with the franchise
requirements, subject to the subscriber's right to privacy.
   C.   It shall be the right of all subscribers to continue receiving service
insofar as their financial and other obligations to the grantee are honored. In
the event that the grantee elects to rebuild, modify, or sell the system, or
the grantor gives notice of intent to terminate or not to renew the franchise,
the grantee shall act so as to ensure that all subscribers receive service so
long as the franchise remains in force.
   D.   In the event of a change of control of grantee, or in the event a new
operator acquires the system, the original grantee shall cooperate with the
grantor, new grantee or operator in maintaining continuity of service to all
subscribers. During such period, grantee shall be entitled to the revenues for
any period during which it operates the system. (Ord. 96-793)
6-3C-22: OTHER REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   In the event grantee fails to operate the system for seven (7)
consecutive days without prior approval or subsequent excuse of the grantor,
the grantor may, at its sole option, operate the system or designate an
operator until such time as grantee restores service under conditions
acceptable to the grantor or a permanent operator is selected. If the grantor
should fulfill this obligation for the grantee, then during such period as the
grantor fulfills such obligation, the grantor shall be entitled to collect all
revenues from the system, and the grantee shall indemnify the grantor against
any damages grantor may suffer as a result of such failure.
   B.   All officers, agents or employees of grantee or its contractors or
subcontractors who, in the normal course of work come into contact with members
of the public or who require entry onto subscribers' premises shall carry a
photo identification card in a form approved by grantor. Grantee shall account
for all identification cards at all times. Every vehicle of the grantee or its
major subcontractors shall be clearly identified as working for grantee.
   C.   Additional service standards and standards governing consumer
protection and response by grantee to subscriber complaints not otherwise
provided for in this article may be established in the franchise agreement or
by separate ordinance, and grantee shall comply with such standards in the
operations of the cable television system. A verified and continuing pattern of
noncompliance may be deemed a material breach of the franchise, provided that
grantee shall receive due process, including written notification and an
opportunity to cure, prior to any sanction being imposed. (Ord. 96-793)
6-3C-23: FRANCHISE FEE:
   A.   Following the issuance and acceptance of the franchise, the grantee
shall pay to the grantor a franchise fee on cable service revenues in the
amount and at the times set forth in the franchise agreement. For
telecommunications service revenues, the grantee shall pay an in lieu of
franchise fee payment in the maximum amount permitted by applicable law.
   B.   The grantor, on an annual basis, shall be furnished a statement within
sixty (60) days of the close of the calendar year, either audited and certified
by an independent certified public accountant or certified by an officer of the
grantee, reflecting the total amounts of gross revenues and all payments,
deductions and computations for the period covered by the payment. Upon thirty
(30) days' prior written notice, grantor shall have the right to conduct an
independent audit of grantee's records, in accordance with generally accepted
accounting procedures, and if such audit indicates a franchise fee and/or in
lieu fee underpayment of two percent (2%) or more, the grantee shall assume all
reasonable costs of such audit.
   C.   Except as otherwise provided by law, no acceptance of any payment by
the grantor shall be construed as a release or as an accord and satisfaction of
any claim the grantor may have for further or additional sums payable as a
franchise fee and/or in lieu fee under this article or for the performance of
any other obligation of the grantee.
   D.   In the event that any franchise and/or in lieu fee payment or
recomputed amount is not made on or before the dates specified in the franchise
agreement, grantee shall pay as additional compensation:
      1.   An interest charge, computed from such due date, at an annual rate
equal to the prime lending rate of any national bank selected by grantor, plus
one percent (1%) during the period for which payment was due; and
      2.   If the payment is late by forty five (45) days or more, a sum of
money equal to five percent (5%) of the amount due in order to defray those
additional expenses and costs incurred by the grantor by reason of delinquent
payment.
   E.   Franchise fee and/or in lieu fee payments shall be made in accordance
with the schedule indicated in the franchise agreement. (Ord. 96-793)
6-3C-24: SECURITY FUND:
   A.   Grantor may require grantee to provide a security fund, in an amount
and form established in the franchise agreement. The amount of the security
fund shall be established based on the extent of the grantee's obligations
under the terms of the franchise.
   B.   The security fund shall be available to grantor to satisfy all claims,
liens and/or taxes due grantor from grantee which arise by reason of
construction, operation, or maintenance of the system, and to satisfy any
actual or liquidated damages arising out of a franchise breach, subject to the
procedures and amounts designated in the franchise agreement.
   C.   If the security fund is drawn upon by grantor in accordance with the
procedures established in this article and the franchise agreement, grantee
shall cause the security fund to be replenished to the original amount no later
than thirty (30) days after each withdrawal by grantor. Failure to replenish
the security fund shall be deemed a material breach of the franchise. (Ord. 96-
793)
6-3C-25: SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Grantee shall not construct any cable system facilities until grantee
has secured the necessary permits from grantor, or other cognizant public
agencies.
   B.   In those areas of the city where transmission lines or distribution
facilities of the public utilities providing telephone and electric power
service are underground, the grantee likewise shall construct, operate and
maintain its transmission and distribution facilities therein underground.
   C.   In those areas of the city where the grantee's cables are located on
the aboveground transmission or distribution facilities of the public utility
providing telephone or electric power service, and in the event that the
facilities of both such public utilities subsequently are placed underground,
then the grantee likewise shall reconstruct, operate and maintain its
transmission and distribution facilities underground, at grantee's cost.
Certain of grantee's equipment, such as pedestals, amplifiers and power
supplies, which normally are placed above ground, may continue to remain in
aboveground enclosures, unless otherwise provided in the franchise agreement.
   D.   Any changes in or extensions of any poles, anchors, wires, cables,
conduits, vaults, laterals or other fixtures and equipment (herein referred to
as "structures"), or the construction of any additional structures, in, upon,
along, across, under or over the streets, alleys and public ways shall be made
under the direction of grantor's city engineer or a designee, who shall, if the
proposed change, extension or construction conforms to the provisions hereof,
issue written permits therefor. The height above public thoroughfares of all
aerial wires shall conform to the requirements of the California regulatory
body having jurisdiction thereof.
      1.   All transmission and distribution structures, lines and equipment
erected by the grantee shall be located so as not to interfere with the proper
use of streets, alleys and other public ways and places, and to cause minimum
interference with the rights or reasonable convenience of property owners who
adjoin any of the said streets, alleys or other public ways and places, and not
to interfere with existing public utility installations.
      2.   In the event that any property or improvement of the grantor in the
public rights of way is disturbed or damaged by the grantee or any of its
contractors, agents or employees in connection with undertaking any and all
work pursuant to the right granted to the grantee pursuant to this article, the
grantee shall promptly, at the grantee's sole cost and expense, restore as
nearly as practicable to their former condition said property or improvement
which was so disturbed or damaged, and in the event that any such property or
improvement shall at any later time become uneven, unsettled or otherwise
require restoration, repair or replacement because of such disturbance or
damage by the grantee, then the grantee, as soon as reasonably possible, shall,
promptly upon receipt of notice from the grantor and at the grantee's sole cost
and expense, restore as nearly as practicable to their former condition said
property or improvement which was disturbed or damaged. Any such restoration by
the grantee shall be made in accordance with such materials and specifications
as may, from time to time, be then provided for by grantor ordinance.
      3.   Prior to commencing any work in the public rights of way, the
grantee shall obtain any and all permits lawfully required by such grantor
codes and ordinances of general application for such work. In the event that
emergency work may be required by the grantee, however, the grantee shall
obtain any and all such permits within three (3) working days after the
beginning of such emergency work.
      4.   There shall be no unreasonable or unnecessary obstruction of the
public rights of way by the grantee in connection with any of the work herein
provided for, and the grantee shall maintain such barriers, signs and warning
signals during any such work performed on or about the public rights of way or
adjacent thereto as may be necessary to reasonably avoid injury or damage to
life and property.
      5.   If at any time during the period of this franchise the grantor shall
lawfully elect to alter or change the grade or location of any street, alley or
other public rights of way, the grantee shall, upon reasonable notice by the
grantor, remove, relay and relocate its poles, wires, cables, underground
conduits, manholes and other fixtures at it own expense, and in each instance
comply with the requirements of the grantor.
      6.   The grantee shall not place poles, conduits or other fixtures above
or below ground where the same will interfere with any gas, electric, telephone
fixtures, water hydrants or other utility, and all such poles, conduits or
other fixtures placed in any street shall be so placed as to comply with all
ordinances of the grantor.
      7.   The grantee may be required by the grantor to permit joint use of
its property and appurtenances located in the streets, alleys or other public
rights of way, by utilities insofar as such joint use may be reasonably
practicable and upon payment of reasonable rental therefore; provided that in
the absence of agreement regarding such joint use, the city council shall
provide for arbitration of the terms and conditions of such joint use and the
compensation to be paid therefrom, which award shall be final.
      8.   The grantee shall, on request of any person holding a moving permit
issued by the grantor, temporarily move its wires or fixtures to permit the
moving of buildings, the expense of such temporary removal to be paid by the
person requesting the same, and the grantee shall be given not less than forty
eight (48) hours' advance notice to arrange for such temporary changes.
      9.   The grantee shall have the authority, except when in conflict with
existing grantor ordinances, to trim any trees upon and overhanging the
streets, alleys, sidewalks and public places so as to prevent the branches of
such trees from coming in contact with the wires and cables of the grantee,
except that at the option of the grantor, such trimming may be done by it, or
under its supervision and direction, at the expense of the grantee. (Ord. 96-
793)
6-3C-26: MULTIPLE FRANCHISES:
   A.   In the event that more than one franchise is awarded, the grantor
reserves the right to limit the number of drop cables per residence, or to
require that the drop cable(s) be utilized only by the cable operator selected
by the resident to provide service.
   B.   The grantor reserves the right to grant an encroachment permit to a
cable franchisee applicant to install conduit and/or cable in anticipation of
the granting of a franchise. Such installations shall be at the applicant's
risk, with no recourse against the grantor in the event the pending franchise
application is not granted. The grantor may require an applicant to provide a
separate trench for its conduit and/or cable, at the applicant's cost. (Ord.
96-793)
6-3C-27: APPLICABLE TECHNICAL STANDARDS:
The grantee shall construct, install, operate and maintain its system in a
manner consistent with all applicable laws, ordinances, construction standards,
governmental requirements, FCC technical standards, and any detailed standards
set forth in its franchise agreement. In addition, the grantee shall provide to
the grantor, upon request, a written report of the results of the grantee's
periodic proof of performance tests conducted pursuant to FCC and franchise
standards and guidelines. (Ord. 96-793)
6-3C-28: NONCOMPLIANCE WITH STANDARDS:
Repeated and verified failure to maintain specified technical standards shall
constitute a material breach of the franchise. (Ord. 96-793)
6-3C-29: HOLD HARMLESS:
Grantee shall indemnify, defend and hold grantor, its officers, agents and
employees harmless from any liability, claims, damages, costs or expenses, to
the extent provided in the franchise agreement. (Ord. 96-793)
6-3C-30: INSURANCE:
   A.   On or before commencement of franchise operations, the grantee shall
obtain policies of liability, workers' compensation and property insurance from
appropriately qualified insurance companies, which shall be "admitted" in the
state of California.
   B.   The policy of liability insurance shall:
      1.   Be issued to grantee and name grantor, its officers, agents and
employees as additional insureds;
      2.   Indemnify for all liability for personal and bodily injury, death
and damage to property arising from activities conducted and premises used
pursuant to this article by providing coverage therefor, including, but not
limited to:
         a.   Negligent acts or omissions of grantee, and its agents, servants
and employees, committed in the conduct of franchise operations, and/or
         b.   Use of motor vehicles;
      3.   Provide a combined single limit for comprehensive general liability
and comprehensive automobile liability insurance in the amount provided for in
the franchise agreement. Such insurance policy shall be subject to review by
grantor's legal counsel; and
      4.   Be noncancelable without thirty (30) days' prior written notice
thereof directed to grantor.
   C.   The policy of workers' compensation insurance shall comply with the
laws of the state of California.
   D.   The policy of property insurance shall provide fire insurance with
extended coverage on the franchise property used by grantee in the conduct of
franchise operations in an amount adequate to enable grantee to resume
franchise operations following the occurrence of any risk covered by this
insurance.
   E.   Grantee shall file with grantor prior to commencement of franchise
operations a certificate of insurance for each of the required policies
executed by the company issuing the policy or by a broker authorized to issue
such a certificate, certifying that the policy is in force and providing the
following information with respect to said policy:
      1.   The policy number;
      2.   The date upon which the policy will become effective and the date
upon which it will expire;
      3.   The names of the named insureds and any additional insured required
by the franchise agreement;
      4.   The subject of the insurance;
      5.   The type of coverage provided by the insurance; and
      6.   The amount or limit of coverage provided by the insurance.
If the certificate of insurance does not provide all of the above information,
grantor reserves the right to inspect the relevant insurance policies.
   F.   Conduct of franchise operations shall not commence until grantee has
complied with the aforementioned provisions of this section.
   G.   In the event grantee fails to maintain any of the above described
policies in full force and effect, grantor shall, upon forty eight (48) hours'
notice to grantee, have the right to procure the required insurance and recover
the cost thereof from grantee. Grantor shall also have the right to suspend the
franchise during any period that grantee fails to maintain said policies in
full force and effect. In order to account for increases in consumer prices, no
more than once during any five (5) year period, grantor shall have the right to
order grantee to increase the amounts of the insurance provided in the
franchise agreement. Such order may be made by grantor after conducting a duly
noticed public hearing. Increases in insurance coverage shall be based upon
current prudent business practices of like enterprises involving the same or
similar risks. (Ord. 96-793)
6-3C-31: RECORDS REQUIRED:
   A.   Grantee shall at all times maintain:
      1.   A record of all service calls and interruptions or degradation of
service experienced for the preceding two (2) years, provided that such
complaints result in or require a service call, subject to the subscriber's
right of privacy.
      2.   A full and complete set of plans, records and "as built" maps
showing the locations of the cable television system installed or in use in the
city, exclusive of subscriber service drops and equipment provided in
subscriber's homes.
      3.   If requested by grantor, a summary of service calls, identifying the
number, general nature and disposition of such calls, on a monthly basis. A
summary of such service calls shall be submitted to the grantor within thirty
(30) days following any grantor request, in a form reasonably acceptable to the
grantor.
   B.   The grantor may impose reasonable requests for additional information,
records and documents from time to time, provided they reasonably relate to the
scope of the city's rights under this article or the grantee's franchise
agreement.
   C.   Upon reasonable notice, and during normal business hours, grantee shall
permit examination by any duly authorized representative of the grantor of all
franchise property and facilities, together with any appurtenant property and
facilities of grantee situated within or without the city, and all records
relating to the franchise, provided they are necessary to enable the grantor to
carry out its regulatory responsibilities under this article or the franchise
agreement. Grantee shall have the right to be present at any such examination.
(Ord. 96-793)
6-3C-32: ANNUAL REPORTS:
   A.   Within ninety (90) days after the end of the calendar year, grantee
shall submit a written annual report to grantor, if requested, with respect to
the preceding calendar year in a form approved by grantor, including, but not
limited to, the following information:
      1.   A summary of the previous year's (or in the case of the initial
reporting year, the initial year's) activities in development of the cable
system, including, but not limited to, services begun or discontinued during
the reporting year;
      2.   A list of grantee's officers, members of its board of directors, and
other principals of grantee;
      3.   A list of stockholders or other equity investors holding five
percent (5%) or more of the voting interest in grantee;
      4.   An indication of any residences in grantee's service area where
service is not available, and a schedule for providing service;
      5.   Information as to the number of homes passed, subscribers,
additional television outlets, and the number of basic and pay subscribers.
      6.   Any other information relevant to franchise regulation which the
grantor shall reasonably request, and which is relevant to its regulatory
responsibilities.
   B.   Upon request, grantee shall submit to grantor copies of all pleadings,
applications and reports submitted by grantee to, as well as copies of all
decisions, correspondence and actions by, any federal, state or local court,
regulatory agency, or other governmental body which are nonroutine in nature
and which will materially affect its cable television operations within the
franchise area. Information otherwise confidential by law and so designated by
grantee, which is submitted to grantor, shall be retained in confidence by
grantor and its authorized agents and shall not be made available for public
inspection. Notwithstanding the foregoing, grantee shall have no obligation to
provide copies of documents to grantor which contain trade secrets of grantee
or which are otherwise of a confidential or proprietary nature to grantee
unless it receives satisfactory assurances from grantor that such information
can and will be held in strictest confidence by the grantor. To the extent
possible, grantee will provide grantor with summaries of any required documents
or copies thereof with trade secrets and proprietary matters deleted therefrom.
The burden of proof shall be on grantee to establish the confidential nature of
any information submitted, to the reasonable satisfaction of the grantor.
   C.   If grantee is publicly held, a copy of each grantee's annual and other
periodic reports and those of its parent, shall be submitted to grantor within
forty five (45) days of its issuance.
   D.   Upon grantor's request, but no more than annually, grantee shall submit
to grantor a privacy report indicating the degree of compliance with the
provisions contained in subsections
 6-3C-19C, D and E of this article and all steps taken to assure that the
privacy rights of individuals have been protected.
   E.   All reports required under this article, except those required by law
to be kept confidential, shall be available for public inspection in the
grantor's offices during normal business hours.
   F.   All reports and records required under this article shall be furnished
at the sole expense of grantee, except as otherwise provided in the franchise
agreement.
   G.   The wilful refusal, failure, or neglect of grantee to file any of the
reports required as and when due under this article, may be deemed a material
breach of the franchise agreement if such reports are not provided to grantor
within thirty (30) days after written request therefor, and may subject the
grantee to all remedies, legal or equitable, which are available to grantor
under this article or the franchise agreement.
   H.   Any materially false or misleading statement or representation made
knowingly and wilfully by the grantee in any report required under this article
or under the franchise agreement may be deemed a material breach of the
franchise and may subject grantee to all remedies, legal or equitable, which
are available to grantor. (Ord. 96-793)
6-3C-33: OPINION SURVEY:
Upon request of the grantor, but not more than once annually, the grantee shall
conduct a subscriber satisfaction survey pertaining to quality of service,
which may be transmitted to subscribers in grantee's invoice for cable
services. The results of such survey shall be provided to the grantor on a
timely basis. The cost of such survey shall be borne by the grantee. (Ord. 96-
793)
6-3C-34: ANNUAL REVIEW:
   A.   Each year throughout the term of the franchise, if requested by the
grantor, grantor and grantee shall meet publicly to review system performance
and quality of service. The various reports required pursuant to this article,
results of technical performance tests, the record of subscriber complaints and
grantee's response to complaints, and the information acquired in any
subscriber surveys, shall be utilized as the basis for review. In addition, any
subscriber may submit comments or complaints during the review meetings, either
orally or in writing, and these shall be considered. Within thirty (30) days
after the conclusion of a system performance review meeting, grantor may issue
findings with respect to the cable system's franchise compliance and quality of
service.
   B.   If grantor determines that grantee is not in compliance with the
requirements of this article or the grantee's franchise, grantor may direct
grantee to correct the areas of noncompliance within a reasonable period of
time. Failure of grantee, after due notice, to correct the areas of
noncompliance within the period specified therefor or to commence compliance
within such period and diligently achieve compliance thereafter, shall be
considered a material breach of the franchise, and grantor may exercise any
remedy within the scope of this article and the franchise agreement considered
appropriate. (Ord. 96-793)
6-3C-35: SPECIAL REVIEW:
When there have been complaints made or where there exists other evidence
which, in the judgment of the grantor, casts reasonable doubt on the
reliability or quality of cable service to the effect that the grantee is not
in compliance with the requirements of this article or its franchise, the
grantor shall have the right to compel the grantee to test, analyze and report
on the performance of the system in order to protect the public against
substandard cable service. Grantor may not compel grantee to provide such tests
or reports unless and until grantor has provided grantee with at least thirty
(30) days' notice of its intention to exercise its rights under this section
and has provided grantee with an opportunity to be heard prior to its exercise
of such rights. Such test or tests shall be made and the report shall be
delivered to the grantor no later than thirty (30) days after the grantor
notifies the grantee that it is exercising such right, and shall be made at
grantee's sole cost. Such report shall include the following information: the
nature of the complaints which precipitated the special tests, what system
component was tested, the equipment used and procedures employed in said
testing, the results of such tests, and the method by which such complaints
were resolved. Any other information pertinent to the special test shall be
recorded. (Ord. 96-793)
6-3C-36: SPECIAL EVALUATION SESSIONS:
The grantor may hold special evaluation sessions at any time during the term of
a franchise, provided such sessions are held no more often than once every
three (3) years. The grantee shall be notified of the place, time and date
thereof and the topics to be discussed. Such sessions may be open to the public
and advertised in a newspaper of general circulation at least thirty (30) days
before each session. The sessions may include an evaluation of any items
considered relevant to the cable system, the subscribers and the city. Either
the grantor or the grantee may propose items for discussion or evaluation.
(Ord. 96-793)
6-3C-37: REMEDIES FOR VIOLATIONS:
If grantee fails to perform in a timely manner any material obligation required
by this article or a franchise granted hereunder, following notice from the
grantor and an opportunity to cure such nonperformance in accordance with the
provisions of section
6-3C-38 of this article and the franchise, grantor may at its option and in its
sole discretion:
   A.   Cure the violation and recover the actual cost thereof from the
security fund established herein if such violation is not cured within thirty
(30) days after written notice to the grantee of grantor's intention to cure
and draw upon the security fund;
   B.   Assess against grantee liquidated damages in an amount set forth in the
franchise agreement for any such violation(s) if such violation is not cured,
or if grantee has not commenced a cure, on a schedule acceptable to grantor,
within thirty (30) days after written notice to the grantee of grantor's
intention to assess liquidated damages. Such assessment may be withdrawn from
the security fund, and shall not constitute a waiver by grantor of any other
right or remedy it may have under the franchise or applicable law, including,
without limitation, its right to recover from grantee such additional damages,
losses, costs and expenses, including actual attorney fees, as may have been
suffered or incurred by grantor by reason of or arising our of such breach of
the franchise. (Ord. 96-793)
6-3C-38: PROCEDURE FOR REMEDYING FRANCHISE VIOLATIONS:
Prior to imposing any remedy or other sanction against grantee specified in
this article, grantor shall give grantee notice and opportunity to be heard on
the matter, in accordance with the following procedures:
   A.   Grantor shall first notify grantee of the violation in writing by
personal delivery or registered or certified mail, and demand correction within
a reasonable time, which shall not be less than fifteen (15) days in the case
of the failure of the grantee to pay any sum or other amount due the grantor
under this article or the grantee's franchise and thirty (30) days in all other
cases. If grantee fails to correct the violation within the time prescribed or
if grantee fails to commence correction of the violation within the time
prescribed and diligently remedy such violation thereafter, the grantor shall
then give written notice of not less than twenty (20) days of a public hearing
to be held before the city council. Said notice shall specify the violations
alleged to have occurred.
   B.   Subsequent to the public hearing, the council shall hear and consider
all other relevant evidence, and thereafter render findings and its decision.
   C.   In the event the council finds that the grantee has corrected the
violation or has diligently commenced correction of such violation after notice
thereof from grantor and is diligently proceeding to fully remedy such
violation, or that no material violation has occurred, the proceedings shall
terminate and no penalty or other sanction shall be imposed.
   D.   In the event the council finds that material violations exist and that
grantee has not corrected the same in a satisfactory manner or has not
diligently commenced correction of such violation after notice thereof from
grantor and is not diligently proceeding to fully remedy such violation, the
council may impose one or more of the remedies provided in this article and the
franchise agreement as it, in its discretion, deems appropriate under the
circumstances. (Ord. 96-793)
6-3C-39: GRANTOR'S POWER TO REVOKE:
Grantor reserves the right to revoke any franchise granted pursuant to this
article and rescind all rights and privileges associated with it in the
following circumstances, each of which shall represent a default by grantee and
a material breach under the franchise grant:
   A.   If grantee shall default in the performance of its material obligations
under this article or the franchise agreement and shall continue such default
after receipt of due notice and reasonable opportunity to cure the default;
   B.   If grantee shall fail to provide or maintain in full force and effect
the insurance coverage or security fund as required in the franchise agreement;
   C.   If grantee shall violate any order or ruling of any regulatory body
having jurisdiction over the grantee relative to the grantee's franchise,
unless such order or ruling is being contested by grantee by appropriate
proceedings conducted in good faith;
   D.   If grantee practices any fraud or deceit upon grantor;
   E.   If grantee becomes insolvent, unable or unwilling to pay its debts, or
is adjudged a bankrupt.
The termination and forfeiture of the grantee's franchise shall in no way
affect any right of grantor to pursue any remedy under the franchise or any
provision of law. (Ord. 96-793)
6-3C-40: APPEAL OF FINDING OF REVOCATION:
The grantee may appeal a finding of revocation pursuant to section
6-3C-39 of this article to arbitration, but only after the grantor and grantee
engage in mediation with respect to the alleged violation. Any proposed
revocation shall be subject to grantee's right to invoke mediation and
arbitration provisions under this provision. No revocation shall be implemented
until the mediation and arbitration process, including any judicial appeals
thereof has been concluded, or until the time for invoking such rights has
expired.
Within ten (10) days of written notification of a finding of revocation by the
grantor, the grantee shall notify the grantor in writing of its intention to
invoke mediation procedures. Within fifteen (15) days of such notification, the
grantor and grantee shall select a mediator to assist in the resolution of the
dispute. If the dispute is not resolved through the mediation process within
sixty (60) days, the grantee may invoke arbitration procedures under section
6-3C-41 of this article by providing the grantor with written notice within ten
(10) days after the mediation process is terminated. (Ord. 96-793)
6-3C-41: PROCEDURES APPLICABLE TO ARBITRATION:
Any arbitration held pursuant to a proposed revocation shall be conducted as
follows:
   A.   The grantor and the grantee each shall, within fifteen (15) days of the
decision to proceed to arbitration appoint one arbitrator experienced in the
cable television business, which arbitrators shall mutually select a third
arbitrator of similar qualifications.
   B.   Within thirty (30) days after appointment of all arbitrators and upon
fifteen (15) days' written notice to the parties to the arbitration, the
arbitrators shall commence a hearing on the dispute.
   C.   The hearing shall be recorded and may be transcribed and the request of
either the grantor or the grantee.
   D.   At the close of the hearings and within thirty (30) days, the
arbitrators shall prepare written findings and serve such decision upon the
grantor and the grantee.
   E.   Either party may seek judicial relief to the arbitrator's decision.
(Ord. 96-793)
6-3C-42: FORCE MAJEURE, GRANTEE'S INABILITY TO PERFORM:
In the event grantee's performance of any of the terms, conditions or
obligations required by this article or a franchise granted hereunder is
prevented by a cause or event not within grantee's control, such inability to
perform shall be deemed excused and no penalties or sanctions shall be imposed
as a result thereof; provided, however, that such inability to perform shall
not relieve a grantee from the obligations imposed by subsection
6-3C-19C of this article pertaining to refunds and credits for interruptions in
service. For the purpose of this section, causes or events not within the
control of grantee shall include, without limitation, acts of God, strikes,
sabotage, riots or civil disturbances, restraints imposed by order of a
governmental agency or court, explosions, acts of public enemies, and natural
disasters such as floods, earthquakes, landslides, and fires, but shall not
include financial inability of the grantee to perform or failure of the grantee
to obtain any necessary permits or licenses from other governmental agencies or
the right to use the facilities of any public utility where such failure is due
solely to the acts or omissions of grantee, or the failure of the grantee to
secure supplies, services or equipment necessary for the installation,
operation, maintenance or repair of the cable communications system where the
grantee has failed to exercise reasonable diligence to secure such supplies,
services or equipment. (Ord. 96-793)
6-3C-43: ABANDONMENT OR REMOVAL:
   A.   In the event that the use of any property of grantee within the public
rights of way is discontinued for a continuous period of twelve (12) months,
grantee shall be deemed to have abandoned that franchise property. Any part of
the cable system that is parallel or redundant to other parts of the system and
is intended for use only when needed as a backup for the system or a part
thereof, shall not be deemed to have been abandoned because of its lack of use.
   B.   Grantor, upon such terms as grantor may impose, may give grantee
permission to abandon, without removing, any system facility or equipment laid,
directly constructed, operated or maintained under the franchise. Unless such
permission is granted or unless otherwise provided in this article, the grantee
shall remove all abandoned aboveground facilities and equipment upon receipt of
written notice from grantor and shall restore any affected street to its former
state at the time such facilities and equipment were installed, so as not to
impair its usefulness. In removing its plant, structures and equipment, grantee
shall refill, at its own expense, any excavation that shall be made by it and
shall leave all public ways and places in as good condition as that prevailing
prior to such removal without materially interfering with any electrical or
telephone cable or other utility wires, poles, or attachments. Grantor shall
have the right to inspect and approve the condition of the public ways, public
places, cables, wires, attachments and poles prior to and after removal. The
liability, indemnity and insurance provisions of this article and the security
fund as provided herein shall continue in full force and effect during the
period of removal and until full compliance by grantee with the terms and
conditions of this section.
   C.   Upon abandonment of any franchise property in place, the grantee, if
required by the grantor, shall submit to the grantor an instrument,
satisfactory in form to the grantor, transferring to the grantor the ownership
of the franchise property abandoned.
   D.   At the expiration of the term for which the franchise is granted, or
upon its revocation or earlier expiration, as provided herein, in any such case
without renewal, extension or transfer, the grantor shall have the right to
require grantee to remove, at its own expense, all aboveground portions of the
cable television system from all streets and public ways within the city within
a reasonable period of time, which shall not be less than one hundred eighty
(180) days.
   E.   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth in this article, the
grantee may abandon any underground franchise property in place so long as it
does not materially interfere with the use of the street or public rights of
way in which such property is located or with the use thereof by any public
utility or other cable grantee. (Ord. 96-793)
6-3C-44: RESTORATION BY GRANTOR; REIMBURSEMENT OF COSTS:
In the event of a failure by grantee to complete any work required herein or by
any other law or ordinance, and if such work is not completed within thirty
(30) days after receipt of written notice thereof from grantor or, if more than
thirty (30) days are reasonably required therefor, if grantee does not commence
such work within such thirty (30) day period and diligently complete the work
thereafter (except in cases of emergency constituting a threat to public
health, safety or welfare), grantor may cause such work to be done and grantee
shall reimburse grantor the costs thereof within thirty (30) days after receipt
of an itemized list of such costs, or grantor may recover such costs through
the security fund provided by grantee. (Ord. 96-793)
6-3C-45: EXTENDED OPERATION AND CONTINUITY OF SERVICES:
Upon expiration or revocation of the franchise, the grantor shall have the
discretion to permit grantee to continue to operate the cable television system
for an extended period of time. Grantee shall continue to operate the system
under the terms and conditions of this article and the franchise and to provide
the regular subscriber service and any and all of the services that may be
provided at that time. It shall be the right of all subscribers to continue to
receive all available services provided that financial and other obligations to
grantee are honored. The grantee shall use reasonable efforts to provide
continuous, uninterrupted service to its subscribers, including operation of
the system during transition periods following franchise expiration or
termination. (Ord. 96-793)
6-3C-46: RECEIVERSHIP AND FORECLOSURE:
   A.   A franchise granted hereunder shall, at the option of grantor, cease
and terminate one hundred twenty (120) days after appointment of a receiver or
receivers, or trustee or trustees, to take over and conduct the business of
grantee, whether in a receivership, reorganization, bankruptcy or other action
or proceeding, unless such receivership or trusteeship shall have been vacated
prior to the expiration of said one hundred twenty (120) days, or unless: 1)
such receivers or trustees shall have, within one hundred twenty (120) days
after their election or appointment, fully complied with all the terms and
provisions of this article and the franchise granted pursuant hereto, and the
receivership or trustees within said one hundred twenty (120) days shall have
remedied all the faults under the franchise or provided a plan for the remedy
of such faults which is satisfactory to the grantor; and 2) such receivers or
trustees shall, within said one hundred twenty (120) days, execute an agreement
duly approved by the court having jurisdiction in the premises whereby such
receivers or trustees assume and agree to be bound by each and every term,
provision and limitation of the franchise granted.
   B.   In the case of a foreclosure or other judicial sale of the franchise
property, or any material part thereof, grantor may serve notice of termination
upon grantee and the successful bidder at such sale, in which event the
franchise granted and all rights and privileges of the grantee hereunder shall
cease and terminate thirty (30) days after service of such notice, unless: 1)
grantor shall have approved the transfer of the franchise, as and in the manner
that this article provides; and 2) such successful bidder shall have covenanted
and agreed with grantor to assume and be bound by all terms and conditions of
the franchise. (Ord. 96-793)
6-3C-47: RESERVATION OF GRANTOR RIGHTS:
In addition to any rights specifically reserved to the grantor by this article,
the grantor reserves to itself every right and power which is required to be
reserved by a provision of any ordinance or under the franchise. (Ord. 96-793)
6-3C-48: WAIVER:
The grantor shall have the right to waive any provision of the franchise,
except those required by federal or state regulation, if the grantor
determines: a) that it is in the public interest to do so, and b) that the
enforcement of such provision will impose an undue hardship on the grantee or
the subscribers. To be effective, such waiver shall be evidenced by a statement
in writing signed by a duly authorized representative of the grantor. Waiver of
any provision in one instance shall not be deemed a waiver of such provision
subsequent to such instance nor be deemed a waiver of any other provision of
the franchise unless the statement so recites. (Ord. 96-793)
6-3C-49: RIGHTS OF INDIVIDUALS:
   A.   Grantee shall not deny service, deny access, or otherwise discriminate
against subscribers, channel users, or general citizens on the basis of race,
color, religion, national origin, age or sex. Grantee shall comply at all times
with all other applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations
relating to nondiscrimination.
   B.   Grantee shall adhere to the applicable equal employment opportunity
requirements of federal, state and local regulations, as now written or as
amended from time to time.
   C.   Neither grantee, nor any person, agency, or entity shall, without the
subscriber's consent, tap, or arrange for the tapping, of any cable, line,
signal input device, or subscriber outlet or receiver for any purpose except
routine maintenance of the system, detection of unauthorized service, polling
with audience participation, or audience viewing surveys to support advertising
research regarding viewers where individual viewing behavior cannot be
identified.
   D.   In the conduct of providing its services or in pursuit of any
collateral commercial enterprise resulting therefrom, grantee shall take
reasonable steps to prevent the invasion of a subscriber's or general citizen's
right of privacy or other personal rights through the use of the system as such
rights are delineated or defined by applicable law. Grantee shall not without
lawful court order or other applicable valid legal authority utilize the
system's interactive two-way equipment or capability for unauthorized personal
surveillance of any subscriber or general citizen.
   E.   No cable line, wire amplifier, converter, or other piece of equipment
owned by grantee shall be installed by grantee in the subscriber's premises,
other than in appropriate easements, without first securing any required
consent. If a subscriber requests service, permission to install upon
subscriber's property shall be presumed.
   F.   The grantee, or any of its agents or employees, shall not sell, or
otherwise make available to any party without consent of the subscriber
pursuant to state and federal privacy laws:
      1.   Any list of the names and addresses of subscribers containing the
names and addresses of subscribers who request in writing to be removed from
such list; and
      2.   Any list which identifies the viewing habits of individual
subscribers, without the prior written consent of such subscribers. This does
not prohibit the grantee from providing composite ratings of subscriber viewing
to any party. (Ord. 96-793)
6-3C-50: SEPARABILITY:
If any provision of this article is held by any court or by any federal or
state agency of competent jurisdiction, to be invalid as conflicting with any
federal or state law, rule or regulation now or hereafter in effect, or is held
by such court or agency to be modified in any way in order to conform to the
requirements of any such law, rule or regulation, such provision shall be
considered a separate, distinct, and independent part of this article, and such
holding shall not affect the validity and enforceability of all other
provisions hereof. In the event that such law, rule or regulation is
subsequently repealed, rescinded, amended or otherwise changed, so that the
provision thereof which had been held invalid or modified is no longer in
conflict with such law, rule or regulation, said provision shall thereupon
return to full force and effect and shall thereafter be binding on grantor and
grantee, provided that grantor shall give grantee thirty (30) days' written
notice of such change before requiring compliance with said provision or such
longer period of time as may be reasonably required for grantee to comply with
such provision. (Ord. 96-793)
CHAPTER 4
TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES IN THE PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY
ARTICLE A. GENERAL
SECTION:
6-4A-0: Short Title
6-4A-1: Definitions
6-4A-2: Prohibited On Roadway Of Public Street
6-4A-3: Dangerous Condition Or Obstruction
6-4A-4: Permit Required
6-4A-5: Findings Required For All Telecommunications Facilities
6-4A-6: Additional Findings Required For Wireless Communications Facilities
6-4A-7: Special Notice
6-4A-8: Time For Decision
6-4A-9: Appeals
6-4A-10: Installation Standards Applicable To All Telecommunications Facilities
6-4A-11: Additional Installation Standards Applicable To Wireless
Communications Facilities
6-4A-12: Maintenance Standards
6-4A-13: Hold Harmless Agreement
6-4A-14: Insurance Required
6-4A-15: Summary Removal
6-4A-16: Removal Of Facility For Public Purpose
6-4A-17: Business License
6-4A-18: Remedies Not Exclusive
6-4A-19: Effect On Other Ordinances
6-4A-0: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITY ORDINANCE and
serves as the city's regulation over such facilities in the public right of
way. (Ord. 16-1012)
6-4A-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, certain words and phrases are defined in this
section, unless it is apparent from the context that a different meaning is
intended:
   ANTENNA ARRAY: One or more rods, panels, disks, or similar devices used for
the transmission or reception of radio frequency signals, which may include
omnidirectional antennas (whip), directional antennas (panel), and parabolic
antennas (dish), but excluding any support structure.
   COLLOCATE: A site or facility where a wireless provider shares a
telecommunications facility with an existing structure, such as an existing
streetlight or utility pole.
   CORNER LOT: A lot bounded by two (2) or more intersecting streets that has
an angle of intersection of not more than one hundred thirty five degrees
(135°). The intersecting streets shall not be the same street. In determining
the angle of intersection for a rounded corner, straight lines shall be drawn
as extensions of both street lines. The calculation of the angle of
intersection shall be made from the side facing toward the lot at the point
where these two (2) extensions meet.
   DIRECTOR: The director of the department of community development or his/her
written designee. The director is hereby designated as the administrative
enforcement official for this chapter and may issue an administrative citation
pursuant to title 1, chapter 4 of this code, and a violator shall be subject to
the procedures, costs and civil penalties set forth therein.
   PARKWAY: That area between the sidewalk and the curb of any street, and
where there is no sidewalk, that area between the edge of the roadway and the
property line adjacent thereto. Parkway shall also include any area within a
roadway, which is not open to vehicular travel.
   PERMIT: A permit issued pursuant to this article allowing the placement of a
telecommunications facility within a specifically designated portion of the
public right of way. This is separate from the encroachment permit.
   PERSON: Any individual, firm, company, corporation or other organization.
   PRIMARY USE: The main purpose for which a site is developed and occupied,
including the activities that are conducted on the site a majority of the hours
which activities occur, including, but not limited to, a streetlight or power
pole.
   PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY OR RIGHT OF WAY: Any public street, public way, public
place or rights of way, now laid out or dedicated, and the space on, above or
below it, and all extensions thereof, and additions thereto, under the
jurisdiction of the city.
   PUBLIC SIDEWALK: Any surface dedicated to the use of pedestrians by license,
easement, operation of law or by grant to the city.
   PUBLIC STREET: All of that area dedicated to public use for public street
and sidewalk purposes and includes, but is not limited to, roadways, parkways,
alleys and sidewalks.
   ROADWAY: That portion of a public street improved, designed or ordinarily
used for vehicular travel.
   STREET SEGMENT: The length of a street between two (2) cross streets and
includes both sides of such street. For streets that turn at an angle of ninety
degrees (90°) or more, the portion before and after the right angle shall each
be considered a street segment.
   SUPPORT STRUCTURE: A freestanding structure designed and constructed to
solely support an antenna array and that may consist of a monopole, a self-
supporting lattice tower, a guywire support tower, or other similar structure.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITY: Any wire or line, antenna, pipeline, pipe,
duct, conduit, converter, cabinet, pedestal, meter, tunnel, vault, equipment,
drain, manhole, splice box, surface location marker, pole, structure, utility,
or other appurtenance, structure, property, or tangible thing used to provide
telecommunications and/or video service to the public.
   WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITY (WCF): For purposes of this chapter, a
wireless communications facility is any unstaffed facility for the transmission
and/or reception of wireless telecommunication services, usually consisting of
an antenna array, connection cables, an equipment enclosure or facility, and a
tower structure or other building or structure used to achieve the necessary
elevation. (Ord. 16-1012)
6-4A-2: PROHIBITED ON ROADWAY OF PUBLIC STREET:
No person shall install, use or maintain any telecommunications facility which
projects onto, in or over any part of the roadway of any public street or which
rests, wholly or in part, upon, along or over any portion of the roadway of any
public street. (Ord. 16-1012)
6-4A-3: DANGEROUS CONDITION OR OBSTRUCTION:
   A.   No person shall install, use or maintain any telecommunications
facility which in whole or in part rests upon, in or over any public sidewalk
or parkway:
      1.   When such installation, use or maintenance endangers or is
reasonably likely to endanger the safety of persons or property, or
      2.   When such site or location is used for public utility purposes,
public transportation purposes or other governmental use, or
      3.   When such telecommunications facility unreasonably interferes with
or impedes the flow of:
         a.   Pedestrian or vehicular traffic including any legally parked or
stopped vehicle,
         b.   The ingress into or egress from any residence or place of
business,
         c.   The use of poles, posts, traffic signs or signals, hydrants,
mailboxes, permitted sidewalk dining, permitted street furniture or other
objects permitted at or near said location. (Ord. 16-1012)
6-4A-4: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   Required: No person shall install or maintain any telecommunications
facility which in whole or in part rests upon, in or over the public right of
way without:
      1.   First obtaining a telecommunications permit or "permit" from the
director under this chapter and
      2.   Demonstrating that the operator is regulated by the public utilities
commission or has a certificate of public convenience and necessity.
   B.   Application Information: Applications for permits shall be made to the
director and shall contain the following:
      1.   The name, address and telephone number of the owner of the
telecommunications facility;
      2.   The name, address and telephone number of the responsible person
whom the city may notify or contact at any time concerning the
telecommunications facility;
      3.   A site plan containing the exact proposed location of the facility
(including the longitude and latitude for purposes of noting the location in
the city's geographic information system), and detailed plans created by a
qualified licensed engineer and in accordance with requirements set by the
director;
      4.   A photograph and/or model number of the type of telecommunications
facility being used;
      5.   A hold harmless agreement pursuant to section
6-4A-13 of this article;
      6.   A certificate of insurance pursuant to section
6-4A-14 of this article;
      7.   Agreement to conform to the requirements of this chapter;
      8.   An application and processing fee, as established by resolution of
the city council; and
      9.   A visual impacts analysis including scaled elevation diagrams which:
         a.   Demonstrates the potential visual impacts of any proposed WCF,
telecommunications facility, support structure, or accessory equipment;
         b.   Includes before and after photo simulations from various
locations and/or angles from which the public would typically view the site and
includes a map depicting where the photos were taken; and
         c.   Where the installation would be readily visible from the public
right-of-way or from surrounding properties, the application shall include an
explanation as to why, if screening or other techniques to minimize the
visibility are not proposed, such approaches to reduce the visibility of the
installation would not be feasible or effective.
      10.   Any additional data sufficient to show the correctness of the
application and/or plans required by the director.
   C.   Public Improvements: Applications will not be accepted for geographic
locations which are then unavailable due to current or proposed public
improvements as specified in the current capital improvement program.
   D.   Existing Facilities: This section does not apply to the terms and
conditions of any agreement or permit (or extension thereof) pertaining to
telecommunications facilities (issued by the city or of which the city is a
party) that is already in existence at the effective date hereof, provided that
the agreement or permit (or extension thereof) does not result in a material
change (including, but not limited to, changes in size, shape, color, or
exterior material) of the telecommunications facilities covered by such
existing agreement.
   E.   Impact Minimizing Conditions: The director may impose impact minimizing
conditions on a permit to mitigate potential noise or aesthetic impacts.
   F.   Permits: The director shall have the right to review the permit every
ten (10) years to determine whether the equipment is no longer needed and/or
useful, or whether new means exist to further reduce noise and/or aesthetic
impacts that are materially greater than those that would have existed when the
WCF was installed as originally permitted.
   G.   Additional Impact Mitigations: The director may require facility
upgrades and/or additional mitigations to reduce impacts of such facilities
unless the applicant demonstrates that the mitigations are not feasible.
   H.   Eligible Facilities Requests: Eligible facilities requests (as defined
in the middle class tax relief and job creation act of 2012, section 6409 and
any subsequent modifications) that do not require a substantial change in
physical dimensions shall be processed in accordance with 47 USC section 1455,
and any duly authorized implementing orders and regulations of the federal
communications commission. In reviewing permits for qualifying eligible
facilities requests, the director shall approve applications, but shall retain
discretion to enforce and condition approval on compliance with generally
applicable building, structural, electrical, and safety codes and with other
laws (including, without limitation, this article) codifying objective
standards reasonably related to health and safety. (Ord. 16-1012; amd. Ord. 24-
1077, 11-6-2024)
6-4A-5: FINDINGS REQUIRED FOR ALL TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES:
No permit shall be granted unless the following findings can be made by the
director:
   A.   The proposed use is allowed in the public right of way and complies
with all applicable provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Prior to the installation of any telecommunications facility, the
applicant has demonstrated that the installation will not interfere with the
use of the public right of way and existing subterranean infrastructure.
   C.   The applicant has coordinated the final siting location of the
telecommunications facility with the director.
   D.   All notification requirements for the proposed telecommunications
facility have been met. (Ord. 16-1012)
6-4A-6: ADDITIONAL FINDINGS REQUIRED FOR WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES:
No permit shall be granted for any wireless communications facility if the
following additional findings cannot be made by the director:
   A.   The applicant has demonstrated, by way of a justification study, the
rationale for selecting the proposed use, a detailed explanation of the
coverage gap that the proposed use would serve, and how the proposed use is the
least intrusive means for the applicant to provide wireless service.
   B.   The applicant has posted a performance bond or other security in an
amount rationally related to the cost of removal.
   C.   The wireless communications facility will not result in levels of radio
frequency emissions that exceed federal communications commission standards,
including, but not limited to, FCC office of engineering technology (OET)
bulletin 65, "Evaluating Compliance With FCC Guidelines For Human Exposure To
Radiofrequency Electromagnetic Fields", as amended. Additionally, if the
director determines the wireless communications facility, as constructed, may
emit radio frequency emissions that are likely to exceed federal communications
commission uncontrolled/general population standards in the FCC office of
engineering technology (OET) bulletin 65, "Evaluating Compliance With FCC
Guidelines For Human Exposure To Radiofrequency Electromagnetic Fields", as
amended, in areas accessible by the general population, the director may
require postinstallation testing to determine whether to require further
mitigation of radio frequency emissions. Applications for amateur radio
antennas or antennas installed for home entertainment purposes are exempt from
this requirement. (Ord. 16-1012)
6-4A-7: SPECIAL NOTICE:
   A.   Notice Of Application Submittal:
      1.   Residential districts: Notice that the application has been
submitted shall be mailed to the owners of property located within a radius of
three hundred feet (300') as shown on the latest equalized assessment roll of
the county of Los Angeles, or from other records of the assessor or county tax
collector which contain more recent and accurate addresses by United States
mail, postage prepaid. Notices shall contain a description of the location, a
brief description of the proposal, the deadline to submit comments, the date
the director is scheduled to make a decision, and information about when and
how an appeal may be filed.
      2.   All other zoning districts: Notice that the application has been
submitted shall be mailed to all property owners within one hundred feet (100')
of the proposed facility (including any antenna array, radome and enclosure
facility) as shown on the latest equalized assessment roll of the county of Los
Angeles, or from other records of the assessor or county tax collector which
contain more recent and accurate addresses by United States mail, postage
prepaid. Notices shall contain a description of the location, a brief
description of the proposal, the deadline to submit comments, the date the
director is scheduled to make a decision, and information about when and how an
appeal may be filed.
   B.   Comment Period: Written comments received by the director during this
period shall be considered as part of the staff review.
      1.   Residential Districts: For proposed uses located in residential
zoning districts, the comment period shall be fifteen (15) days from the date
notice is provided.
      2.   All Other Zoning Districts: For proposed uses located in all other
zoning districts, the comment period shall be ten (10) days from the date
notice is provided.
   C.   Notice Of Installation: After the appeal period has expired, and no
less than forty eight (48) hours prior to installation, written notice shall be
provided to the same persons who originally received notice pursuant to
subsection A, "Notice Of Application Submittal", of this section.
   D.   Exemption: Any WCF operated by suppliers of electric, gas, or water
utilities shall be exempt from the provisions of this section. (Ord. 16-1012)
6-4A-8: TIME FOR DECISION:
   A.   A permit for a telecommunications facility that provides video services
for a holder of a statewide video franchise shall be granted, denied or granted
conditionally by the director no later than sixty (60) days after receiving a
completed application.
   B.   A permit for all other telecommunications facilities shall be granted,
denied or granted conditionally by the director within a reasonable time after
receiving a completed application, with that reasonable time maintaining
compliance with all state and federal requirements.
   C.   If the director denies an application, the director shall, at the time
of notifying the applicant of the denial, furnish to the applicant a detailed
explanation of the reason for the denial. (Ord. 16-1012)
6-4A-9: APPEALS:
Any interested person may appeal the decision of the director pursuant to this
chapter to the city council. The appeal shall be filed with the city clerk
within fifteen (15) days after the decision by the director from which the
appeal is being taken. (Ord. 16-1012)
6-4A-10: INSTALLATION STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO ALL TELECOMMUNICATIONS
FACILITIES:
A permit for telecommunications facilities within the public right of way shall
comply with the following installation standards:
   A.   Construction: The director or his/her designee shall determine the
time, place, and manner of construction for all WCFs located within the PROW
consistent with Public Utilities Code.
   B.   Colors:   WCFs shall have subdued colors and nonreflective materials
which blend in with the surrounding area to the satisfaction of the director or
his/her designee.
   C.   Compliance With ADA: All WCFs shall be built in compliance with the
Americans with disabilities act (ADA), including, but not limited to, surface
access in and around facilities.
   D.   Utility And Light Poles:
      1.   The maximum height of any antenna shall not exceed twenty four
inches (24") above the height of an existing utility pole and no portion of the
antenna or equipment mounted on a pole shall be less than sixteen feet (16')
above any drivable road surface. All installations on utility poles shall fully
comply with California public utilities commission general order 95.
      2.   The maximum height of any antenna or antenna radome shall not exceed
six feet (6') above the height of an existing light pole.
      3.   Pole mounted equipment shall not exceed six (6) cubic feet.
      4.   Antennas shall be installed on existing utility or light poles,
except when impractical or technologically infeasible. No new poles may be
installed except as replacements for existing poles, or when the applicant
provides evidence as part of the application showing why and how complying with
the foregoing standard would be impractical or technologically infeasible. In
such event, the director may hire an independent, qualified consultant to
evaluate any technical aspect of the proposed replacement or modification and
any proposed exceptions from these development standards at the applicant's
sole cost. The applicant shall submit a deposit to pay for such independent
third party review as set forth in the city's fee resolution.
   E.   Restoration Of Parkway: In the event the parkway and/or roadway, where
approved, adjacent the applicant's telecommunications facility is disturbed or
altered in the process of installation, the applicant shall restore the parkway
to the condition in which it existed prior to installation.
   F.   Modifications Prohibited Without Approval: No modifications to
aboveground or at grade telecommunications facility, including those related to
size, color, and shape of the housing, may be made by the applicant without
first having obtained approval from the director.
   G.   Placement Below Ground: Where feasible, as new technology becomes
available, the applicant shall place an existing or proposed aboveground
telecommunications facility below ground.
   H.   Proximity: In residential areas, WCFs shall not be located within one
standard block width of another wireless communication facility; this does not
include collocation of sites.
   I.   Residential Location: In residential districts where a
telecommunications facility is proposed adjacent to a corner lot, the facility
shall be located along the side yard and not on the primary frontage of a
residence, if feasible.
   J.   Landscaping: To the extent feasible, the area surrounding the
telecommunications facility shall be maintained with landscaping or alternate
screening. The landscaping shall be irrigated and of a sufficient height and
density to screen the facility from the public sidewalk and parkway.
   K.   Tree Protection: The applicant shall obtain the director's approval of
a tree protection plan prepared by a certified arborist for the installation of
any telecommunications facility located within the canopy of a street tree, or
a protected tree on private property, or within a minimum of a ten foot (10')
radius of the base of such a tree. Depending on site specific criteria (e.g.,
location of tree, size and type of tree, etc.), a radius greater than ten feet
(10') may be required by the director.
   L.   Illumination: No telecommunications facility may be illuminated unless
specifically required by the federal aviation administration or other
governmental agencies.
   M.   Consultations: At the discretion of the director, the applicant may be
required to provide an authorization to permit the city to hire an independent,
qualified consultant to evaluate any technical aspect of a proposed wireless
communications facility, including, but not limited to, issues involving radio
frequency emissions, alternative designs, and alternative sites. Any
authorization for this purpose shall include a deposit to cover all reasonable
costs associated with the consultation. Any proprietary information disclosed
to the city or the consultant is deemed not to be a public record, and shall
remain confidential and not to be disclosed to any third party without the
express consent of the applicant, unless otherwise required by law. (Ord. 16-
1012)
6-4A-11: ADDITIONAL INSTALLATION STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO WIRELESS
COMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES:
   A.   No support structures are permitted in the public right of way. New
streetlights and utility poles installed for the support of wireless
communication facilities and found to be required per subsection
6-4A-10D4 of this article are allowed.
   B.   No wireless communications facility shall be located on a pole that is
less than twenty five feet (25') in height.
   C.   An antenna array shall not extend over seven feet (7') beyond the top
of the pole, unless the applicant can demonstrate to the director that doing so
is impractical or unreasonable.
   D.   When feasible, panel antennas shall utilize brackets that allow no more
than a four inch (4") extension from the pole. Panel antennas shall not exceed
the height of the pole.
   E.   All permits for wireless communications facilities shall be valid for
no less than ten (10) years. The director may administratively extend the term
of the permit for subsequent ten (10) year terms upon verification of continued
compliance with the findings and conditions of approval under which the
application was originally approved, as well as any other provisions provided
for in this code which are in effect at the time of permit renewal.
   F.   If an applicant proposes to replace a pole in order to accommodate
their telecommunications facility, the pole shall match or improve the
appearance of the original pole to the extent feasible and shall be approved by
the director. (Ord. 16-1012)
6-4A-12: MAINTENANCE STANDARDS:
The following standards are applicable to all telecommunications facilities
subject to this chapter:
   A.   The applicant shall provide ongoing maintenance of its
telecommunications facilities, including ensuring the facilities are reasonably
free of:
      1.   General dirt and grease;
      2.   Chipped, faded, peeling, or cracked paint on all visible painted
areas;
      3.   Rust and corrosion on all visible unpainted metal areas;
      4.   Cracks, dents, blemishes, and discoloration;
      5.   Graffiti, bills, stickers, advertisements, etc.; and
      6.   Broken and misshapen structural parts.
   B.   If an applicant discontinues use or abandons any telecommunications
facilities, the applicant shall: 1) immediately notify the director; 2) remove
the equipment and restore the site to the previous condition within ninety (90)
days of notification to the director and in a manner approved by the director.
      1.   The facilities must be removed and the applicant will be liable for
removing the facilities at its own cost. If an applicant fails to remove
facilities that the city requires it to remove, after ninety (90) days' notice
to the occupant, the city may perform the work and is entitled to collect the
cost from the applicant, its successors, and/or assigns.
      2.   If the applicant fails to notify the director, removal of equipment
and restoration of the site to its previous condition is required within forty-
five (45) days from when the city informs the applicant or property owner of
non-compliance to the notification requirement. The site shall be deemed a
public nuisance until all removal and restoration has been completed and any
unexpired permit or authorization to use, operate and/or maintain the wireless
facility or the wireless transmission device may be revoked.
   C.   The telecommunications facilities shall be maintained such that they
comply at all times with title 9, chapter 1, article I, "Regulation Of
Excessive Noise", of this code.
   D.   All ground mounted, at grade, and aboveground telecommunications
facilities shall be properly maintained in accordance with the following
procedures:
      1.   All necessary repairs, including graffiti removal, shall be
completed by the applicant within forty eight (48) hours after discovery of the
need for such repairs or in receiving notification from a resident or the
director.
      2.   The applicant shall provide routine maintenance within ten (10)
working days after receiving notification from a resident or the director.
      3.   The applicant shall replace ground mounted, at grade, and
aboveground telecommunications facilities, in kind, if routine or emergency
maintenance is not sufficient to return the equipment to the condition at the
time of installation.
   E.   Transfer Of Ownership: Upon transfer of an approved wireless
communication facility or any rights under the applicable permit or approval,
the permittee of the facility must within thirty (30) days of such transfer
provide written notification to the director of the date of the transfer and
the identity of the transferee.
      1.   The assignee must provide written acknowledgment and assumption of
all duties, requirements, restrictions and responsibilities applicable to the
use, operation and maintenance of the subject wireless facility or subject
wireless transmission device as provided under this chapter or any conditional
use permit or other approval issued under this chapter.
      2.   The director may require submission of any supporting materials or
documentation necessary to determine that the facility is in compliance with
the existing permit or approval and all of its conditions including, but not
limited to, statements, photographs, plans, drawings, and analysis by a
qualified engineer demonstrating compliance with all applicable regulations and
standards of the city, FCC, and California Public Utilities Commission. (Ord.
16-1012; amd. Ord. 24-1077, 11-6-2024)
6-4A-13: HOLD HARMLESS AGREEMENT:
A condition of issuance of a permit is that every permittee, and person on a
shared permit, agrees to defend, indemnify, and hold harmless the city of
Temple City, its city council, officers, and employees to the maximum extent
permitted by law, from any loss or liability or damage, including expenses and
costs, for bodily or personal injury, and for property damage sustained by any
person as a result of the installation, use, or maintenance of the applicant's
facilities subject to this article. (Ord. 16-1012)
6-4A-14: INSURANCE REQUIRED:
A condition of issuance of a permit is that every permittee agrees to maintain
a policy of public liability insurance, naming the city as an additional
insured, in an amount that meets or exceeds the minimum levels and standards of
liability insurance and claims reserve, established by the director. (Ord. 16-
1012)
6-4A-15: SUMMARY REMOVAL:
In the event the director determines that the condition or placement of a
telecommunications facility constitutes a dangerous condition or obstruction,
as defined in section
6-4A-3 of this article, or that a telecommunications facility has been placed
in the public right of way without a permit, the director may cause the
facility to be removed summarily and without a hearing. An administrative
citation shall be served upon the person who owns the facility within two (2)
business days of removal in the manner set forth in title 1, chapter 4 of this
code, and if the owner cannot be identified, the telecommunications facility
shall be treated as abandoned property. (Ord. 16-1012)
6-4A-16: REMOVAL OF FACILITY FOR PUBLIC PURPOSE:
When the director determines that it is necessary to remove a
telecommunications facility for the construction or installation of public
improvements, an order to comply pursuant to title 1, chapter 4 of this code
may be issued for the purpose of suspending or terminating the permit. The
person who holds the permit for the telecommunications facility shall be
entitled, on permittee's election, to either a pro rata refund of fees or to a
new permit, without additional fee, in the original location or as close to the
original location as the standards set forth in this chapter allow. (Ord. 16-
1012)
6-4A-17: BUSINESS LICENSE:
A permit issued under this article shall not substitute for any business
license otherwise required under this code. (Ord. 16-1012)
6-4A-18: REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE:
Remedies under this article are in addition to and do not supersede or limit
any and all other remedies, civil or criminal. The remedies provided for herein
shall be cumulative and not exclusive. (Ord. 16-1012)
6-4A-19: EFFECT ON OTHER ORDINANCES:
   A.   Compliance with the provisions of this article shall not relieve a
person from complying with any other applicable provision of this code.
   B.   In the event of a conflict between any provision in this article and
any regulations of this jurisdiction related to excavations, this article shall
control.
   C.   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be deemed to supersede or
modify the standards and size limitations (and exemptions thereon) for sign
displays in title 9, chapter 1, article L, "Signs", of this code.
   D.   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be deemed to supersede or
modify section
9-1T-8 of this code, which regulates wireless communications facilities located
outside of the public right of way. (Ord. 16-1012)
TITLE 7
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
7-1-0: Building Code Administration
7-1-1: Adoption Of Los Angeles County Code, Title 26, Building Code
7-1-2: Building Code Modified
7-1-3: Effect Of Adoption
7-1-4: Penalty; Violations
7-1-0: BUILDING CODE ADMINISTRATION:
101 Title, Purpose, Intent And Scope
101.1 Title. Title 7 Building Regulations, chapter 1 of the city of Temple City
municipal code shall be known as the Building Code Of The City Of Temple City,
may be cited as such, and will be referred to herein as "these regulations" or
"these building standards" or "this code."
101.2 Purpose And Intent. The purpose of this code is to establish the minimum
requirements to safeguard the public health, safety and general welfare through
structural strength, means of egress facilities, stability, sanitation,
adequate light and ventilation, energy conservation, and safety to life and
property from fire and other hazards attributed to the built environment and to
provide safety to firefighters and emergency responders during emergency
operations. Consistent with this purpose, the provisions of this code are
intended and always have been intended to confer a benefit on the community as
a whole and are not intended to establish a duty of care toward any particular
person.
This code shall not be construed to hold the city or any officer, employee or
agent thereof responsible for any damage to persons or property by reason of
any inspection authorized herein or by reason of the issuance or nonissuance of
any permit authorized herein, and/or for any action or omission in connection
with the application and/or enforcement of this code. By adopting the
provisions of this code, the city does not intend to impose on itself, its
employees or agents, any mandatory duties of care toward persons and property
within its jurisdiction so as to provide a basis of civil liability for
damages.
This section is declaratory of existing law and is not to be construed as
suggesting that such was not the purpose and intent of previous code adoptions.
101.3 Scope And Applicability. The provisions of this code shall apply to the
erection, construction, enlargement, alteration, installation, reconstruction,
repair, movement, improvement, connection, conversion, demolition, use and
occupancy of any building, structure or premises, or portion thereof, and
grading within the city.
The provisions of this code shall not apply to work located primarily in a
public way other than pedestrian protection structures required by chapter 33;
public utility towers and poles; equipment not specifically regulated in this
code; hydraulic flood control structures; work exempted by section 107.2; or
minor work of negligible hazard to life specifically exempted by the building
official.
Additions, alterations, repairs and changes of use or occupancy in all
buildings and structures shall comply with the provisions for new buildings and
structures except as otherwise provided in section 109 and existing building
code of the city of Temple City.
Detached one- and two-family dwellings and multiple single-family dwellings
(townhouses) not more than three stories above grade plane in height with a
separate means of egress and their accessory structures shall comply with the
residential code as amended and adopted by the city of Temple City.
Where, in any specific case, different sections of this code specify different
materials, methods of construction or other requirements, the most restrictive
shall govern.
The codes and standards referenced in this code shall be considered part of the
requirements of this code to the prescribed extent of each such reference.
Where differences occur between provisions of this code and referenced codes
and standards, the provisions of this code shall apply.
The provisions of this code shall not be deemed to nullify any provisions of
local, state or federal law.
In the event any differences in requirements exist between the accessibility
requirements of this code and the accessibility requirements of the California
code of regulations, title 24 (also referred to as the California building
standards code), then the California code of regulations shall govern.
102 Unsafe Buildings
102.1 Definition. All buildings or structures which are structurally unsound or
not provided with adequate egress, or which constitute a fire hazard, or are
otherwise dangerous to human life, or which in relation to existing use
constitute a hazard to safety or health, or public welfare, by reason of
inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, obsolescence, fire hazard, disaster
damage, lacking an approved water supply, hazardous electrical, unsafe gas
piping or appliances or abandonment as specified in this code or any other
effective ordinance, are, for the purpose of this chapter, unsafe buildings.
Whenever the building official determines by inspection that a building or
structure, whether structurally damaged or not, is dangerous to human life by
reason of being located in an area which is unsafe due to hazard from
landslide, settlement, or slippage or any other cause, such building shall, for
the purpose of this chapter, be considered an unsafe building.
No person shall own, use, occupy or maintain any unsafe building.
All unsafe buildings are hereby declared to be public nuisances. In addition to
instituting any appropriate action to prevent, restrain or correct a violation
of this section, the building official may abate an unsafe condition or order
that the unsafe condition be secured, repaired, rehabilitated, demolished or
removed as deemed necessary by the building official in accordance with the
procedure specified in this code.
As used in this chapter "party concerned" means the person, if any, in real or
apparent charge and control of the premises involved, the record owner, the
holder of any mortgage, trust deed or other lien or encumbrance of record, the
owner or holder of any lease of record, the record holder of any other estate
or interest in or to the building or structure or the land upon which it is
located.
102.2 Notice Of Unsafe Building. The building official shall examine or cause
to be examined every building or structure or portion thereof reported as
dangerous or damaged and, if, in the building official's opinion, such is found
to be an unsafe building as defined in this chapter, the building official
shall give to the party concerned written notice stating the defects thereof.
This notice may require the owner or person in charge of the building or
premises to;
      1.   Immediately remove, backfill, shore up or secure such unsafe
condition, and/or
      2.   Within 48 hours, apply for required permit(s) and commence either
the required repairs or improvements or demolition and removal of the building
or structure or portions thereof.
All such work shall be completed within 90 days from date of notice, unless
otherwise stipulated by the building official. If necessary, such notice shall
also require the building, structure, or portion thereof to be vacated
forthwith and not reoccupied until the required repairs and improvements are
completed, inspected and approved by the building official.
Proper service of such notice shall be by personal service or by registered or
certified mail upon every party concerned. In the event the building official,
after reasonable effort, is unable to serve the notice as specified above,
proper service shall be by posting on the structure a copy of the notice.
The designated period within which the owner or person in charge is required to
comply with such notice shall begin as of the date the owner or person in
charge receives such notice by personal service or registered or certified
mail. If such notice is by posting, the designated period shall begin ten days
following the date of posting.
The failure of any owner or other person to receive such notice shall not
affect in any manner the validity of any proceedings taken hereunder.
A person notified to vacate an unsafe building by the building official shall
vacate within the time specified in the order.
The building official may record a notice of violation with the county
recorder's office that the building or structure described has been inspected
and found to be an unsafe building, as defined in this chapter, and that the
owner thereof has been so notified. After all, required work has been
completed, upon request and payment of required fee(s) the building official
shall record a notice rescinding the prior notice of violation with the county
recorder's office.
102.3 Posting Of Signs. The building official shall cause to be posted on
buildings required to be vacated or remain unoccupied a notice to read
substantially as follows: "Restricted Use" or "Unsafe - Do Not Enter or Occupy"
as described in section 102.6. All placards shall read "Building and Safety
Division, City of Temple City".
Such notice shall be posted at the main entrance and shall be visible to
persons approaching the building or structure from a street. Such notice shall
remain posted until the required repairs, demolition or removal are completed.
Such notice shall not be removed without written permission of the building
official and no person shall enter the building except for the purpose of
making the required repairs or of demolishing the building.
102.4 Unsafe Buildings: Hearing.
102.4.1 Right Of Hearing. The party concerned or the building official may
request a hearing regarding the unsafe condition of the building or structure.
The request by the interested party shall be made in writing to the building
official within 30 days of the date of the notice of the unsafe condition. A
hearing shall be requested by the building official prior to demolition or
repair of an unsafe building by the city except when such demolition or repair
is done under the emergency procedure set forth in this chapter.
All interested parties who desire to be heard may appear before the building
board of appeals to show cause why the building or structure should not be
ordered repaired, vacated and repaired, or demolished.
102.4.2 Notice Of Hearing. Not less than ten days prior to the hearing, the
building official shall serve or cause to be served either in the manner
required by law for the service of summons or by first class mail, postage
prepaid, a copy of the notice of hearing upon every party concerned.
102.4.3 Form And Contents Of Notice. The notice of hearing shall state:
      1.   The street address and a legal description sufficient for
identification of the premises upon which the building or structure is located.
      2.   The conditions because of which the building official believed that
the building or structure is an unsafe building.
      3.   The date, hour and place of the hearing.
102.4.4 Posting Of Notice. The building official shall post one copy of the
notice of hearing in a conspicuous place on the unsafe building involved, not
less than ten days prior to the hearing.
102.4.5 Hearing By Building Board Of Appeals. The building board of appeals
shall hold a hearing and consider all competent evidence offered by any person
pertaining to the matters set forth in the report of the building official.
The building board of appeals shall make written findings of fact as to whether
or not the building or structure is an unsafe building as defined in this
chapter.
When determined by the building official, the building rehabilitation appeals
board shall hold the hearing in lieu of the building board of appeals.
102.4.6 Order. If the building board of appeals finds that the building or
structure is an unsafe building, it shall make an order based on its finding
that:
      1.   The building or structure is an unsafe building and directing that
repairs be made and specifying such repairs, or
      2.   The building or structure is an unsafe building and directing that
it be vacated and that specified repairs be made, or
      3.   The building or structure is an unsafe building and directing that
it shall be vacated and demolished.
The order shall state the time within which the work required must be
commenced, which shall not be less than 10 nor later than 30 days after the
service of the order. The order shall state a reasonable time within which the
work shall be completed. The building board of appeals for good cause may
extend the time for completion in writing.
The order shall be served upon the same parties and in the same manner as
required by section 102.4.2 for the notice of hearing. It shall also be
conspicuously posted on or about the building or structure.
102.5 Unsafe Buildings: Demolition Or Repair.
102.5.1 Work By City. If the repairs or demolition necessary to remove the
unsafe condition as set forth in the notice of unsafe building is not made
within the designated period and a hearing has not been requested by any party
concerned, the building official shall request that a hearing be held regarding
the unsafe condition. If the finding by the building board of appeals is not
complied with within the period designated by the board, the building official
may then secure or demolish such portions of the structure, or may cause such
work to be done, to the extent necessary to eliminate the hazard determined to
exist by the building board of appeals.
102.5.2 Emergency Procedure. Whenever any portion of a structure constitutes an
immediate hazard to life or property, and in the opinion of the building
official, the conditions are such that repairs, or demolition must be
undertaken within less than the designated period, the building official may
take necessary action, such as performing alterations, repairs, and/or
demolition of the structures, to protect life or property, or both, after
giving such notice to the parties concerned as the circumstances will permit or
without any notice whatever when, in the building official's opinion, immediate
action is necessary.
102.5.3 Costs. The costs incurred by actions taken pursuant to sections 102.5.1
and 102.5.2 including the entire cost of the services rendered by the county,
shall be a special assessment against the property upon which the structure
stood. The building official shall notify, in writing, all parties concerned of
the amount of such assessment resulting from such work. Within five days of the
receipt of such notice, any such party concerned may file with the building
official a written request for a hearing on the correctness or reasonableness,
or both, of such assessment. Any party concerned who did not receive a notice
pursuant to section 102.2 and who has not had a hearing on the necessity of the
demolition or repairs in such request for hearing also may ask that such
necessity be reviewed. The building board of appeals thereupon shall set the
matter for hearing; give such party concerned notice thereof as provided in
section 102.4.2; hold such hearing and determine the reasonableness or
correctness of the assessment, or both; and if requested, determine the
necessity of the demolition or repairs. The building board of appeals, in
writing, shall notify such party concerned of its decision. If the total
assessment determined as provided for in this section is not paid in full
within 10 days after receipt of such notice from the building official or the
building board of appeals, as the case may be, the building official shall
record in the office of the department of registrar-recorder a statement of the
total balance still due and a legal description of the property. From the date
of such recording, such balance due shall be a special assessment against the
parcel.
The assessment shall be collected at the same time and in the same manner as
ordinary city taxes are collected and shall be subject to the same penalties
and the same procedure and sale in case of delinquency as provided for ordinary
city taxes. All the laws applicable to the levy, collection and enforcement of
city taxes shall be applicable to such special assessment.
102.5.4 Interference Prohibited. A person shall not obstruct, impede, or
interfere with the building official or any representative of the building
official, or with any person who owns or holds any estate or interest in any
unsafe building which has been ordered by the building board of appeals to be
repaired, vacated and repaired, or vacated and demolished or removed, whenever
the building official or such owner is engaged in repairing, vacating and
repairing, or demolishing any such unsafe building pursuant to this chapter, or
is performing any necessary act preliminary to or incidental to such work, or
authorized or directed pursuant hereto.
102.5.5 Prosecution. In case the owner shall fail, neglect or refuse to comply
with the notice to repair, rehabilitate, or to demolish and remove said
building or structure or portion thereof, the building official shall cause the
owner of the building to be prosecuted as a violator of this code.
102.6 Posting Of Signs For Damage Assessment. The building official shall cause
placard(s) to be posted on buildings upon completion of a safety assessment.
All placards shall read "Building and Safety Division, City of Temple City".
The placards shall also indicate the condition of the structure for continued
occupancy, and shall read substantially as follows:
1. "INSPECTED - Lawful Occupancy Permitted" (green placard) shall be posted on
any building or structure wherein no apparent structural hazard has been found.
This placard is not intended to mean that there is no damage to the building or
structure.
2. "RESTRICTED USE" (yellow placard) shall be posted on each building or
structure that has been damaged wherein the damage has resulted in some form of
restriction to the continued occupancy. This placard will note in general terms
the type of damage encountered and will clearly and concisely note the
restrictions on continued occupancy.
3. "UNSAFE - Do Not Enter or Occupy" (red placard) shall be posted on each
building or structure that has been damaged such that the continued occupancy
poses a threat to life safety. Buildings or structures posted with this placard
shall not be entered under any circumstance except as authorized in writing by
the building official, or his or her authorized representative. This placard is
not to be used or considered as a demolition order. This placard will note in
general terms the type of damage encountered.
Such notice shall be posted at the main entrance(s) and shall be visible to
persons approaching the building or structure from a street. Such notice shall
remain posted until the required repairs, demolition or removal are completed.
Such notice shall not be removed without written permission of the building
official and no person shall enter the building except for the purpose of
making the required repairs or of demolishing the building.
103 Violations And Penalties
103.1 Compliance With Code. It shall be unlawful for a person to erect,
construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove, connect, convert,
demolish, equip, or perform any other work on any building or structure or
portion thereof, or perform any grading in the city, or cause the same to be
done, contrary to, or in violation of, any of the provisions of this code.
103.2 Violation. It shall be unlawful for any person to own, use, occupy or
maintain any building or structure or portion thereof, in the city, or cause
the same to be done, contrary to, or in violation of, any of the provisions of
this code.
103.3 Penalty. Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions
of this code shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and each such person shall be
guilty of a separate offense for each and every day or portion thereof during
which any violation of any of the provisions of this code is committed,
continued or permitted, and upon conviction of any such violation such person
shall be punishable by a fine of not more than $1,000 (one thousand dollars),
or by imprisonment for not more than six months, or by both such fine and
imprisonment. The provisions of this section are in addition to and independent
of any other sanctions, penalties or costs which are or may be imposed for a
violation of any of the provisions of this code.
103.4 Recordation Of Violation.
103.4.1 General. The building official may record a notice with the county
recorder's office that a property, building, or structure, or any part thereof,
is in violation of any provision of this code provided that the provisions of
this section are complied with. The remedy provided by this section is
cumulative to any other enforcement actions permitted by this code.
103.4.2 Recordation. If (1) the building official determines that any property,
building, or structure, or any part thereof is in violation of any provision of
this code; and if (2) the building official gives written notice as specified
below of said violation; then the building official may have sole discretion
to, at any time thereafter, record with the county recorder's office a notice
that the property and/or any building or structure located thereon is in
violation of this code.
Following the recordation of the notice of violation the building official is
not required to conduct an inspection or review of the premises to determine
the continued existence of the cited violation. It is the responsibility of the
property owner, occupant or other similarly interested private party to comply
with the above provisions.
103.4.3 Notice. The written notice given pursuant to this section shall
indicate:
      1.   The nature of the violation(s); and
      2.   That if the violation is not remedied to the satisfaction of the
building official, the building official may, at any time thereafter, record
with the county recorder's office a notice that the property and/or any
building or structure located thereon is in violation of this code. The notice
shall be posted on the property and shall be mailed to the owner of the
property as indicated on the last equalized county assessment roll. The mailed
notice may be by registered, certified, or first-class mail.
103.4.4 Rescission. Any person who desires to have recorded a notice rescinding
the notice of violation must first obtain the necessary approvals and permit(s)
to correct the violation. Once the building official determines that the work
covered by such permit(s) has been satisfactorily completed, the building
official may record a notice rescinding the prior notice of violation.
103.5 Costs. Any person who violates any provision of this code shall be
responsible for the costs of any and all code enforcement actions taken by the
building official in response to such violations. These costs shall be based on
the amounts specified in section 115.
103.6 Work Without Permit. Whenever any work has been commenced without a
permit as required by the provisions of this code, a special investigation
shall be made prior to the issuance of the permit. An investigation fee
specified as per section 115 shall be collected for each permit so
investigated.
Exception: When the building official has determined that the owner-builder of
a one- or two-family dwelling, accessory building or accessory structure had no
knowledge that a permit was necessary and had not previously applied for a
permit from the building division of the city of Temple City the investigation
fee shall be specified as per the section 115.
The payment of the investigation fee shall not exempt any person from
compliance with all other provisions of this code or from any penalty
prescribed by law.
For additional provisions, applicable to grading, see appendix J.
103.7 Noncompliance Fee. If the building official, in the course of enforcing
the provisions of this code or any state law, issues an order to a person and
that person fails to comply with the order within 15 days following the due
date for compliance stated in the order, including any extensions thereof, the
building official shall have the authority to collect a noncompliance fee.
The noncompliance fee shall not be imposed unless the order states that a
failure to comply within 15 days after the compliance date specified in the
order will result in the fee being imposed. No more than one such fee shall be
collected for failure to comply with an order.
For additional provisions, applicable to grading, see appendix J.
104 Organization And Enforcement
104.1 Building Division. There is hereby established a division in the city
community development department to be known and designated as the building and
safety division.
104.2.1 General. The building official is hereby authorized and directed to
enforce all the provisions of this code, including the electrical code, the
plumbing code, mechanical code, residential code, energy code, existing
building code and green building standards, relevant laws, ordinances, rules
and regulations; and to make all inspections pursuant to the provisions of this
code, relevant laws, ordinances, rules and regulations. For such purposes, the
building official shall have the powers of a law enforcement officer.
The building official shall have the power to render interpretations of this
code, relevant laws, ordinances, rules and regulations; and to adopt and
enforce rules and supplemental regulations in order to clarify the application
of the provisions. Such interpretations, rules and regulations shall be in
conformance with the intent and purpose of this code.
The building official shall classify every building or portion thereof into one
of the occupancies set forth in chapter 3 of the building code according to its
use or the character of its occupancy.
The building official shall also classify every building into one of the types
of construction set forth in chapter 6 of the building code.
104.2.1.1. The building official is authorized to make and enforce such
guidelines and policies for the safeguarding of life, limb, health or property
as may be necessary from time to time to carry out the purpose of this code.
104.2.2 Deputies. With the approval of the city council, the building official
may appoint such number of officers, inspectors and assistants, and other
employees as shall be authorized from time to time. The building official may
deputize such employees as may be necessary to carry out the functions of the
building division.
104.2.3 Right Of Entry.
104.2.3.1. Whenever it is necessary to make an inspection to enforce any of the
provisions of or perform any duty imposed by this code or other applicable law,
or whenever the building official or an authorized representative has
reasonable cause to believe that there exists in any building, structure, or
grading, or upon any premises any condition which makes such building,
structure, or grading, or premises hazardous, unsafe, or dangerous for any
reason specified in this code or other similar law, the building official or an
authorized representative hereby is authorized to enter such property at any
reasonable time and to inspect the same and perform any duty imposed upon the
building official by this code or other applicable law; provided that (i) if
such property is occupied, then the building official shall first present
proper credentials to the occupant and request entry explaining the reasons
therefor; and (ii) if such property is unoccupied, then the building official
shall first make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or other persons
having charge or control of the property and request entry, explaining the
reasons therefor.
If such entry cannot be obtained because the owner or other person having
charge or control of the property cannot be found after due diligence or if
entry is refused, then the building official or an authorized representative
shall have recourse to every remedy provided by law to secure lawful entry and
inspect the property.
104.2.3.2. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the building official or an
authorized representative has reasonable cause to believe that the building or
grading or premises is so hazardous, unsafe, or dangerous as to require
immediate inspection to safeguard the public health or safety, the building
official shall have the right to immediately enter and inspect such property,
and may use any reasonable means required to effect such entry and make such
inspection, whether such property is occupied or unoccupied and whether or not
permission to inspect has been obtained. If the property be occupied, the
building official shall first present credentials to the occupant and demand
entry, explaining the reasons therefor and the purpose of the inspection.
104.2.3.3. "Authorized representative" shall include the officers named in
section 104.2.2 and their authorized inspection personnel.
104.2.3.4. No person shall fail or refuse, after proper demand has been made
upon such person as provided in this subsection, to promptly permit the
building official or an authorized representative to make any inspection
provided for by subsection 104.2.3.2. Any person violating section 104.2.3
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
104.2.4 Stop Orders. Whenever any building or grading work is being done
contrary to the provisions of this code, or other pertinent laws or ordinances
implemented through the enforcement of this code, the building official may
order the work stopped by notice in writing served on any persons engaged in
the doing or causing such work to be done, and any such persons shall forthwith
stop such work until authorized by the building official to proceed with the
work.
104.2.5 Occupancy Violations. Whenever any structure or portion thereof is
being used contrary to the provisions of this code, or other pertinent laws or
ordinances, or whenever any structure or portion thereof which was built
contrary to the provisions of this code or other pertinent laws or ordinances,
is being used or occupied, the building official may order such use
discontinued and the structure, or portion thereof, vacated by notice served on
any person causing such use to be continued. Such person shall discontinue the
use within 10 days after receipt of such notice to make the structure, or
portion thereof, comply with the requirements of this code, provided, however,
that in the event of an unsafe building section 102 shall apply.
104.2.6 Liability. The liability and indemnification of the building official
and any subordinates are governed by the provisions of division 3.6 of title 1
of the Government Code.
104.2.7 Modifications. Whenever there are practical difficulties involved in
carrying out the provisions of this code, the building official may grant
modifications, on a case-by-case basis, provided the building official shall
first find that a special individual reason makes the strict letter of this
code, relevant laws, ordinances, rules and regulations impractical and that the
modification is in conformity with the spirit and purpose of this code,
relevant laws, ordinances, rules and regulations, and that such modification
does not lessen any fire protection or other life safety-related requirements
or any degree of structural integrity. The details of any action granting
modifications shall be recorded and entered in the files of the city.
A written application for the granting of such modifications shall be submitted
together with a filing fee established by separate fee resolution or ordinance.
For additional provisions, applicable to grading, see appendix J.
104.2.8 Alternate Materials, Design And Methods Of Construction. The provisions
of this code, relevant laws, ordinances, rules and regulations are not intended
to prevent the use of any material, appliances, installation, device,
arrangement, method, design or method of construction not specifically
prescribed by this code, provided any such alternate has been approved.
The building official may approve on a case-by-case basis any such alternate,
provided that he or she finds that the proposed design is satisfactory and
complies with the provisions of this code and finds that the material, method
or work offered is, for the purpose intended, at least the equivalent of that
prescribed in this code, relevant laws, ordinances, rules and regulations in
quality, strength, effectiveness, fire resistance and other life- safety
factors, durability, planning and design, energy, material resource efficiency
and conservation, environmental air quality, performance, water and sanitation.
The building official shall require that sufficient evidence or proof be
submitted to substantiate any claims that may be made regarding its use.
A written application for use of an alternate material, design or method of
construction shall be submitted together with a filing fee established by
separate fee resolution or ordinance.
For additional provisions, applicable to grading, see appendix J.
104.2.9 Tests. Whenever there is insufficient evidence of compliance with the
provisions of this code or evidence that any material or any construction does
not conform to the requirements of this code, or in order to substantiate
claims for alternate materials or methods of construction, the building
official may require tests as proof of compliance to be made at the expense of
the owner or the owner's agent by an approved agency.
Test methods shall be as specified by this code for the material in question.
If there are no appropriate test methods specified in this code, the building
official shall determine the test procedure.
Reports of such test shall be retained by the building official in accordance
with the city's guidelines for the retention of public records.
104.2.10 Cooperation Of Other Officials. The building official may request, and
shall receive so far as may be necessary in the discharge of his or her duties,
the assistance and cooperation of other officials of the city.
104.2.11 Demolition. Whenever the term "demolition" or "demolish" is used in
this code it shall include the removal of the resulting debris from such
demolition, the proper abandonment of any sewer or sewage disposal system when
applicable, and the protection or filling of excavations exposed by such
demolition as may be required by this code or other ordinances or laws.
104.2.12 Service. Whenever in this code a notice is required to be served by
personal service or by registered or certified mail, it shall be deemed a
reasonable effort has been made to serve such notice when registered or
certified letters have been mailed to the address of the interested party as
shown on the official record and on the record of the county assessor. When an
address is not so listed or contact cannot be made at the listed address, the
service shall be by posting on the structure a copy of the notice.
104.2.13 Amendments To Ordinances. Whenever any reference is made to any other
ordinance such reference shall be deemed to include all future amendments
thereto.
104.2.14 Validity. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of
this ordinance is, for any reason, held to be invalid, such decision shall not
affect the validity of the remaining portions of this ordinance. The city
council hereby declares that it would have passed this ordinance, and each
section, subsection, clause or phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that
any one or more sections, subsections, sentences, clauses and phrases be
declared invalid.
104.3 Definitions. In addition to the definitions specified in chapter 2 of
this code, the following certain terms, phrases, words and their derivatives
shall be construed as specified in this section. Terms, phrases and words used
in the masculine gender include the feminine and the feminine the masculine.
In the event of conflicts between these definitions and definitions that appear
elsewhere in this code, these definitions shall govern and be applicable.
Board Of Supervisors shall mean the city of Temple City, city council.
Building Code shall mean the Los Angeles County code title 26 as adopted and
amended by the city of Temple City.
Building Division Or Building Department shall mean the building division of
the city of Temple City.
Building Official shall mean the building official of the building and safety
division or other designated authority charged with the administration and
enforcement of this code, or his/her's duly authorized representative.
Building Rehabilitation Appeals Board shall mean the city of Temple City, city
council.
CALGreen see Green Building Standards Code definition.
County may mean city of Temple City or Los Angeles County depending on the
context.
Demolition Whenever the term demolition or demolish is used in this code, it
shall include the removal of the resulting debris from such demolition and the
protection or filling of excavations exposed by such demolition as may be
required by this code, relevant laws, ordinances, rules and/or regulations.
Electrical Code shall mean the Los Angeles County code title 27 as adopted and
amended by the city of Temple City.
Energy Code shall mean California code of regulations title 24, part 6.
Existing Building Code shall mean the Los Angeles County code title 33 as
adopted and amended by the city of Temple City.
Factory-Built Structure shall mean buildings or structures that meet all of the
following criteria:
      (1)   Fabrication on an off-site location under the inspection of the
state, for which the state inspection agency has attested to compliance with
the applicable state laws and regulations by the issuance of an insignia;
      (2)   The bearing of the state insignia and that have not been modified
since fabrication in a manner that would void the state approval; and for which
the city has been relieved by statute of the responsibility for the enforcement
of laws and regulations of the state of California or the city.
Fire Code shall mean the California code of regulations title 24, part 9, as
adopted and amended by the county of Los Angeles fire department.
Green Building Standards Code shall mean California code of regulations title
24, part 11.
Health Code Or Los Angeles County Health Code shall mean the county of Los
Angeles health department.
Los Angeles County Flood Control District shall mean either the city of Temple
City public works department or the Los Angeles County flood control district.
Mechanical Code shall mean the Los Angeles County code title 29 as adopted and
amended by the city of Temple City.
National Pollution Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) Permit shall mean a
permit issued as required by the federal clean water act in order to protect
receiving waters. The NPDES permit requires controls to reduce the discharge of
pollutants into storm drains, channels or natural watercourses.
Noninspected Work shall mean any erection, construction, enlargement,
alteration, repair, movement, improvement, removal, connection, conversion,
demolition or equipping for which a permit was first obtained, pursuant to
section 107, but which has progressed beyond the point indicated in successive
inspections, including but not limited to inspections set forth in section 117,
without first obtaining inspection by and approval of the building official.
Plumbing Code shall mean the Los Angeles County code title 28 as adopted and
amended by the city of Temple City.
Residential Building Code shall mean the Los Angeles County code title 30 as
adopted and amended by the city of Temple City.
Road Commissioner shall mean the city engineer.
Unincorporated Portion Of The County Of Los Angeles shall mean the city of
Temple City.
Unpermitted Structure shall be defined as any structure, or portion thereof,
that was erected, constructed, enlarged, altered, repaired, moved, improved,
removed, connected, converted, demolished or equipped, at any point in time,
without the required approval(s) and permit(s) having first been obtained from
the building official.
105 Appeals Boards
105.1 Technical Interpretations Appeals Board. When a request for an alternate
material has been proposed by an applicant and denied by the building official,
the applicant may appeal the building official's decision to the technical
interpretations appeals board no later than 60 calendar days from the date of
the action being appealed.
The board shall consist of five members who are qualified by experience and
training to pass upon matters pertaining to building construction. One member
shall be a practicing architect, one a competent builder, one a lawyer and two
shall be civil or structural engineers, each of whom shall have had at least
ten years experience as an architect, builder, lawyer or structural designer.
The building official shall be an ex officio member and shall act as secretary
to the board. The members of the board of appeals shall be appointed by the
city council and shall hold office at its pleasure. The board shall adopt
reasonable rules and regulations for conducting its investigations. The board
shall establish that the approval for alternate materials and the modifications
granted for individual cases are in conformity with the intent and purpose of
this code, relevant laws, ordinances, rules and regulations, and that such
alternate material, modification or method of work offered is at least the
equivalent of that prescribed in this code, relevant laws, ordinances, rules
and regulations in quality, strength, effectiveness, fire resistance,
durability, safety and sanitation and does not lessen any fire-protection
requirements or any degree of structural integrity. The board shall document
all decisions and findings in writing to the building official with a duplicate
copy to the applicant, and the board may recommend to the city council such new
legislation as is consistent therewith.
105.2 Accessibility Appeals Board. In order to conduct the hearings on written
appeals regarding action taken by the building official concerning
accessibility and to ratify certain exempting actions of the building official
in enforcing the accessibility requirements of the California code of
regulations, title 24 (also known as the California building standards code),
and to serve as an advisor to the building official on disabled access matters,
there shall be an accessibility appeals board consisting of five members. Two
members of the appeals board shall be physically disabled persons, two members
shall be persons experienced in construction, and one member shall be a public
member. The building official shall be an ex officio member and shall act as
secretary to the board. The members of the accessibility appeals board shall be
appointed by the city council and shall hold office at its pleasure. The board
shall adopt reasonable rules and regulations for conducting its actions. The
board shall establish that the access matter under review is in conformity with
the intent and purpose of the California code of regulations, title 24, and
this code. The board shall document all decisions and findings in writing to
the building official with a duplicate copy to the applicant, and the board may
recommend to the city council such new legislation as is consistent therewith.
The appeals board may approve or disapprove interpretations and enforcement
actions taken by the building official. All such approvals or disapprovals for
privately funded construction shall be final and conclusive as to the building
official in the absence of fraud or prejudicial abuse of discretion.
105.3 Limitations Of Authority. Neither the technical interpretations appeals
board nor the accessibility appeals board shall have authority relative to
interpretation of the administrative portions of this code, other than section
102, nor shall the board be empowered to waive requirements of this code.
105.4 Appeals Board Fees. A filing fee established by separate fee resolution
or ordinance shall be paid to the building official whenever a person requests
a hearing or a rehearing before the appeals boards provided for in this
section.
All requests to appeal determinations, orders or actions of the building
official or to seek modifications of previous orders of the appeals boards
shall be presented in writing.
106 Building Plan Requirements
106.1 General. When required by the building official to verify compliance with
this code, relevant laws, ordinances, rules and regulations, plans, and when
deemed necessary by the building official, calculations, geological or
engineering reports and other required data shall be submitted for plan review.
The building official may require plans and calculations to be prepared by an
engineer or architect licensed or registered by the state to practice as such.
Only after the plans have been approved may the applicant apply for a building
permit for such work. The building official may also require such plans be
reviewed by other departments and/or divisions of the city to verify compliance
with the laws and ordinances under their jurisdiction.
When authorized by the building official, complete plans and calculations need
not be submitted for the following work when information sufficient to clearly
define the nature and scope of the work are submitted for review:
      1.   One-story buildings of type V conventional wood-stud construction
with an area not exceeding 600 square feet;
      2.   Work deemed by the building official as minor, small and/or
unimportant work.
Where applicable, submittals shall include special inspection requirements and
structural observation requirements as required by chapter 17.
Plans, calculations, reports or documents for work regulated by this code,
relevant laws, ordinances, rules and regulations shall bear the seal, signature
and number of a civil engineer, structural engineer, mechanical engineer,
electrical engineer, soils engineer or architect registered or certified to
practice in the state of California when required by the California Business
And Professions Code. A seal and number shall not be required for work
authorized by the said article to be performed by a person not registered or
certified as an engineer or architect.
For buildings exceeding 160 feet (48.77 m) in height, the structural
calculations and each sheet of structural plans shall be prepared under the
supervision of and shall bear the signature or approved stamp of a person
authorized by the state of California to use the title structural engineer. In
addition, all architectural sheets shall bear the signature or approved stamp
of an architect licensed by the state of California.
All structures and devices installed for the protection of pedestrians,
regardless of location, are subject to the plan review requirements of this
section.
For additional provisions, applicable to grading, see appendix J.
106.2 Architect Or Engineer Of Record. When it is required that documents be
prepared by an architect or engineer, the building official may require the
owner to designate on the permit application an architect or engineer who shall
act as the architect or engineer of record. If the circumstances require, the
owner may designate a substitute architect or engineer of record who shall
perform all of the duties required of the original architect or engineer of
record. The building official shall be notified in writing by the owner if the
architect or engineer of record is changed or is unable to continue to perform
the duties.
The architect or engineer of record shall be responsible for reviewing and
coordinating all submittal documents prepared by others, including deferred
submittal items, for compatibility with the design of the building.
106.3 Information Required On Building Plans. Plans shall be drawn to scale
upon substantial paper or other material suitable to the building official,
shall be of sufficient clarity to indicate the nature and scope of the work
proposed, and shall show in detail that the proposed construction will conform
to the provisions of this code and all relevant laws, ordinances, rules and
regulations.
The first sheet of each set of plans shall give the street address of the
proposed work and the name, address and telephone number of the owner(s) and
all persons who were involved in the design and preparation of the plans.
Plans shall include a plot plan showing the location of the proposed building
and of every existing building on the premises. In lieu of specific details,
the building official may approve references on the plans to a specific section
or part of this code, relevant laws, ordinances, rules and/or regulations.
Computations, stress diagrams and other data sufficient to show the correctness
of the plans shall be submitted when required by the building official.
When deemed necessary by the building official, the first sheet of each set of
plans shall indicate the following information:
      1.   The building type of construction;
      2.   Whether fire sprinklers are installed in all or any portion of the
building;
      3.   Existing building areas and areas of all additions;
      4.   The number of stories of the building;
      5.   The use of all new and existing rooms and/or areas;
      6.   The occupancy classifications of each occupancy;
      7.   The code in effect on the date of plan check submittal.
The plans shall show all mitigation measures required under the national
pollution discharge elimination system (NPDES) permit issued to the city. For
the application of NPDES permit requirements as they apply to grading plans and
permits, see appendix J of this code.
For additional provisions, applicable to grading, see appendix J.
106.4 Drainage Review Requirement. Where proposed construction will affect site
drainage, existing and proposed drainage patterns shall be shown on the plot
plan.
A site inspection may be required prior to plan check of building plans for
lots or parcels in areas having slopes of five horizontal to one vertical (5:1)
or steeper when the building official finds that a visual inspection of the
site is necessary to establish drainage requirements for the protection of
property, existing buildings or the proposed construction. The fee for such
inspection shall be as set forth by ordinance or resolution. Such a
preinspection shall not be required for a building pad graded under the
provisions of appendix J.
For additional provisions, applicable to grading, see appendix J.
106.5 Deferred Submittals. For the purposes of this section, deferred
submittals are defined as those portions of the design that are not submitted
at the time of the application and that are to be submitted to the building
official within a specified period.
Deferral of any submittal items shall have prior approval of the building
official. The architect or engineer of record shall list the deferred
submittals on the plans and shall submit the deferred submittal documents for
review by the building official.
Submittal documents for deferred submittal items shall be submitted to the
architect or engineer of record who shall review them and forward them to the
building official with a notation indicating that the deferred submittal
documents have been reviewed and that they have been found to be in general
conformance with the design of the building. The deferred submittal items shall
not be installed until their design and submittal documents have been approved
by the building official.
106.6 Standard Plans. The building official may approve a set of plans for a
building or structure as a "standard plan," provided that the applicant has
made proper application and submitted complete sets of plans as required by
this section.
Plans shall reflect laws and ordinances in effect at the time a permit is
issued except as provided in this section. Nothing in this section shall
prohibit modifying the permit set of plans to reflect changes in laws and
ordinances that have become effective since the approval of the standard plan.
The standard plans shall become null and void where the work required by such
changes exceeds five percent of the value of the building or structure.
Standard plans shall be valid for a period of one year from the date of
approval. This period may be extended by the building official when there is
evidence that the plans may be used again and the plans show compliance with
this code, relevant laws, ordinances, rules and regulations.
106.7 Expiration Of Plan Check Applications. Plan check applications for which
no permit is issued within one year following the date of application shall
expire by limitation and become null and void. Plans and calculations
previously submitted may thereafter be returned to the applicant or destroyed
by the building official.
When requested in writing by the applicant and prior to the effective date of a
more current code, the building official within their discretion may grant
extension(s) not exceeding 1 year provided:
      1.   Circumstances beyond the control of the applicant have prevented
action from being taken;
      2.   An extension fee is paid as determined by the building official, not
to exceed 25 percent of the plan check fee.
Once an application and any extension thereof has expired, the applicant shall
resubmit plans and calculations and pay a new application fee.
106.8 Retention Of Plans. One set of approved plans, calculations and reports
shall be retained by the building official. Except as required by section 19850
of the Health And Safety Code, the building official shall retain such set of
the approved plans, calculations and reports for a period of not less than 90
days from date of completion of the work covered therein.
107 Building Permit Requirements
107.1 Building Permit Required. No person shall erect, construct, enlarge,
alter, repair, move, improve, remove, connect, convert, demolish, or equip any
building, structure, or portion thereof, perform any grading, or cause the same
to be done, without first obtaining a separate permit for each such building,
structure or grading from the building official.
The issuance of a permit without first requiring a plan review shall not
prevent the building official from requesting plans deemed necessary to verify
that the work performed under said permit complies with this code and all
relevant laws, ordinances, rules and regulations.
No person shall install, alter, repair, move, improve, remove, connect any
automatic fire-protection system regulated by this code, or cause the same to
be done, without first obtaining a separate permit for each such building or
structure from the building official.
All structures and devices installed for the protection of pedestrians,
regardless of location, are subject to the permit requirements of this section.
For additional provisions, applicable to grading, see appendix J.
107.2 Work Exempted. A building permit shall not be required for the following:
Exemption from permit requirements of this code shall not be deemed to grant
authorization for any work to be done in any manner in violation of the
provisions of this code or any other laws or ordinances.
Unless otherwise exempted by the city plumbing, electrical or mechanical codes,
separate plumbing, electrical and mechanical permits will be required for the
below-exempted items.
A building permit shall not be required for the following:
      1.   Work not regulated by the building code, except where deemed
necessary by the building official to enforce other federal and/or state laws,
state disabled access requirements, or to enforce city ordinances or policies.
      2.   Painting; wallpapering; installing carpet, vinyl, tile, and similar
floor coverings, cabinets, counter tops and similar finish work where disabled
access requirements do not apply.
      3.   Repairing broken window glass not required by the building code to
be safety or security glazing.
      4.   One-story detached accessory buildings used as tool and storage
sheds, playhouses, shade structures, and similar uses, provided the gross floor
area does not exceed 120 square feet, the height does not exceed 12 feet and
the maximum roof projection does not exceed 24 inches.
      5.   Chain-link, wrought-iron and similar fences not more than 12 feet in
height.
      6.   Masonry, concrete, wood and similar fences not more than 6 feet in
height.
Exception: Wood fences not more than 8 feet in height with 60 percent or more
of the fence open and incapable of being loaded by wind.
      7.   Retaining walls that retain not more than 4 feet (1219 mm) in height
measured from the bottom of the footing to the top of the wall, unless
supporting a surcharge or impounding a class I, II, or III-A liquids.
      8.   Ground-mounted radio and television antenna towers that do not
exceed 45 feet in height and ground-supported dish antennas not exceeding 15
feet in height above finished grade in any position.
      9.   Light standards that do not exceed 30 feet in height.
      10.   Flagpoles not erected upon a building and not more than 15 feet
high.
      11.   A tree house provided that:
      1.   The tree house does not exceed 64 square feet in area or 8 feet in
height from floor to roof.
      2.   The ceiling height as established by door height or plate line does
not exceed 6 feet.
      12.   Canopies or awnings, completely supported by the exterior wall,
attached to a group R-3 or U occupancy and extending not more than 54 inches
from the exterior wall of the building.
      13.   Sheds, office or storage buildings, and other structures that are
less than 1,500 square feet and incidental to work authorized by a valid
grading or building permit. Such structures must be removed upon expiration of
the permit or completion of the work covered by the permit.
      14.   Decks, walks and driveways not more than 30 inches above grade and
not over any basement or story below and that are not part of an accessible
route.
      15.   Prefabricated swimming pools and other bodies of water accessory to
a group R-3 occupancy that are less than 18 inches deep, or do not exceed 5,000
gallons (18 927 l), and are installed entirely above adjacent grade.
      16.   Playground equipment.
      17.   Membrane structures not regulated by California title 19, not
exceeding 250 square feet in area, used exclusively for residential
recreational purposes or as a cover for vehicles, and located in accordance
with other city ordinances.
      18.   Steel tanks supported on a foundation not more than 2 feet (610 mm)
above grade when the height does not exceed 11/2 times the diameter.
      19.   Gantry cranes and similar equipment.
      20.   Bridges not involving buildings.
      21.   Motion picture, television and theater stage sets and scenery,
except when used as a building.
      22.   Oil derricks.
      23.   Non fixed and movable fixtures, cases, racks, counters and
partitions not over 5 feet 9 inches in height.
For additional provisions, applicable to grading, see appendix J.
107.3 Application For Permit. To obtain a permit, the applicant shall first
file an application in writing on a form furnished by the city for that
purpose. Each such application shall:
      1.   Identify and describe the work to be covered by the permit for which
application is made.
      2.   Describe the land on which the proposed work is to be done by lot,
block, tract, street address, or similar description that will readily identify
and locate the proposed building or work.
      3.   Show the use and occupancy of all parts of the building.
      4.   Be accompanied by plans and calculations as required in section 106.
      5.   State the valuation of the proposed work or, for grading, the volume
of earth to be handled.
      6.   Give such other information as reasonably may be required by the
building official.
107.4 Issuance. The building official shall issue a permit to the applicant for
the work described in the application and plans filed therewith when the
building official is satisfied that all of the following items comply:
      1.   The work described conforms to the requirements of this code,
relevant laws, ordinances, rules and regulations.
      2.   The fees specified by resolution or ordinance have been paid.
      3.   The applicant has obtained a permit pursuant to Public Resources
Code section 30600 et seq., if such a permit is required.
When the building official issues the permit, the building official shall
endorse in writing or stamp on both sets of plans "Reviewed for Substantial
Compliance Only." Such stamped plans shall not be changed, modified or altered
without authorization from the building official, and all work shall be done in
accordance with the currently adopted codes in effect at the time of permit
issuance regardless of the information presented on the plans. The approval of
the plans shall not be held to permit or to be an approval of any violation of
any federal, state, county or city laws or ordinances. The issuance of a permit
shall not be deemed to certify that the site of the described work is safe.
One set of approved plans and reports shall be returned to the applicant to be
kept on such building or work site at all times while the authorized work is in
progress.
The building official may issue a permit for the construction of part of a
building or structure before the entire plans and calculations for the whole
building or structure have been submitted or approved, provided adequate
information and detailed statements have been filed complying with all
pertinent requirements of this code. The holder of such permit shall proceed at
his or her own risk without assurance that the permit for the entire building
or structure will be granted.
For additional provisions, applicable to grading, see appendix J.
107.5 Permit Validity. The issuance or granting of a permit or approval of
plans and calculations shall not be construed to be a permit for, or an
approval of, any violation of any of the provisions of this code, relevant
laws, ordinances, rules and regulations. No permit presuming to give authority
to violate or cancel the provisions of this code, relevant laws, ordinances,
rules and regulations shall be valid, except insofar as the work or use which
it authorizes is lawful.
The issuance of a permit based on plans and calculations shall not prevent the
building official from thereafter requiring the correction of errors in said
plans and calculations or from preventing building operations being carried on
thereunder when in violation of this code, relevant laws, ordinances, rules and
regulations.
For additional provisions, applicable to grading, see appendix J.
107.6 Expiration Of Permit. Every permit issued by the building official under
the provisions of this code shall expire automatically by limitation and become
null and void one year after the date of the last required building inspection
approval by the building official or if work authorized by such permit is not
commenced within one year from the issuance date of such permit. Before such
work can be commenced or recommenced, a new permit shall be first obtained.
For the purposes of this paragraph, "required building inspection" shall mean
those inspections listed in section 117.4.2, and those inspections specifically
identified on the job record issued with the building permit. No partial
inspection shall meet the definition of "required building inspection."
Supplementary permits for electrical, grading, mechanical, plumbing, and reroof
shall not expire so long as the associated building permit remains active. No
electrical, grading, mechanical, plumbing or reroof inspection shall satisfy
the requirement to have a required building inspection as defined in this
section.
Where a new building permit is issued to complete work previously started under
an expired permit, a permit fee and or plan review fee shall be collected in an
amount determined by the building official, not to exceed 25 percent of the
permit fee provided:
      1.   Applicant request in writing prior the effective date of a more
current code;
      2.   That the duration of time from the date of expiration has not
exceeded one year;
      3.   That no changes have been made or will be made in the original plans
and calculations for such work;
Applicable plan review fees and permit fees, in addition to issuance fees, for
the remaining work based on the remaining work valuation shall be collected for
all permits which do not meet the preceding criteria.
All work to be performed under the new permit must be done in accordance with
the building code in effect on the date of issuance of the new permit.
107.7 Permit Suspension Or Revocation. The building official may, in writing,
suspend or revoke a permit issued under the provisions of this code, relevant
laws, ordinances, rules and regulations whenever the permit was issued in error
or on the basis of incorrect information supplied, or in violation of any other
laws, ordinances or regulations or any of the provisions of this code.
The building official may also, in writing, withhold inspections, suspend or
revoke a permit where work is being done in violation of this code, where work
is being done in violation of the approved plans, where work is being concealed
without approval from the building official, or where work is not in accordance
with the direction of the building official.
For additional provisions, applicable to grading, see appendix J.
107.8 Cancellation Of Permit By Applicant. If no portion of the work or
construction covered by a permit issued by the building official under the
provisions of this code, relevant laws, ordinances, rules and regulations has
been commenced, the person to whom such permit has been issued may deliver such
permit to the building official with a request that such permit be cancelled.
Only the person to whom such permit was issued may request cancellation of the
permit. The building official shall thereupon stamp or write on the face of
such permit the words, "Cancelled at the request of the applicant." Thereupon
such permit shall be null and void and of no effect. All fees except for
issuance fees shall be returned to the applicant.
For additional provisions, applicable to grading, see appendix J.
107.9 Transfer Of Permit By Applicant.
107.9.1 No Inspection Performed. When requested in writing by the person to
whom the permit was issued, a permit may be transferred from the person to whom
the permit was issued to a new individual. Fee credit shall be given where
deemed appropriate by the building official and new fees shall be paid as
required by ordinance or resolution.
107.9.2 One Or More Inspection Performed. Permits may be transferred to any
individual upon completion of a new application. Fee credit shall be given
where deemed appropriate by the building official and new fees shall be paid as
required by ordinance or resolution.
107.9.3 Permit Duration Remains Unchanged. Transfer of a permit shall be
considered a continuation of the previous permit when determining the permit's
duration, and shall in no way extend the duration of the preceding permit.
108 Reserved
109 Use And Occupancy
109.1 General. No building, structure or premises, or portion thereof, shall be
used or occupied, and no change in the existing occupancy classification of a
building, structure or premises, or portion thereof, shall be made until the
building official has approved the building, structure or premises or portion
thereof for such use or occupancy and until all permits have been approved or a
temporary certificate of completed construction has been issued.
Upon final approval of a building permit and at the request of the applicant, a
certificate of completed construction shall be issued by the building official
for any structure that is ready to occupy.
Approval of a building, structure or premises, or portion thereof, for use or
occupancy (including, but not limited to, final inspection approval and/or
issuance of a certificate of completed construction or issuance of a temporary
certificate of completed construction) shall not be construed as approval of a
violation of the provisions of this code, relevant laws, ordinances, rules and/
or regulations. Approvals presuming to give authority to violate or cancel the
provisions of this code, relevant laws, ordinances, rules and/or regulations
are not valid.
The building official may, in writing, suspend or revoke any such approvals or
certificates whenever the building official determines that the approval or
certificate was issued in error, or on the basis of incorrect information
supplied, or when it is determined that the building, structure or premises, or
portion thereof, is in violation of any provision of this code, relevant laws,
ordinances, rules and/or regulations. Any certificate of completed construction
or temporary certificate of completed construction so issued shall be
surrendered upon request of the building official.
109.2 Unpermitted Structures. No person shall own, use, occupy or maintain any
unpermitted structure.
109.3 Change In Use. Changes in the character or use of a building shall not be
made except as specified in existing building code.
109.4 Issuance Of A Certificate Of Completed Construction. When the building,
structure or premises, or portion thereof, has passed final inspection, and
when the building, structure or premises complies with this code, relevant
laws, ordinances, rules and regulations, and the required fees have been paid,
the building official, upon request of the applicant, shall issue a certificate
of completed construction, which shall contain the following:
      1.   The building permit number.
      2.   The address of the building or structure.
      3.   A description of that portion of the building for which the
certificate is issued.
      4.   A statement that the described portion of the building was inspected
and found to comply with the requirements of this code, relevant laws,
ordinances, rules and regulations for the group and division of occupancy and
the use for which the proposed occupancy is classified.
      5.   The date the permit was approved.
      6.   Any other information deemed necessary by the building official.
For additional provisions, applicable to grading, see appendix J.
109.5 Issuance Of A Temporary Certificate Of Completed Construction. If the
building official finds that no substantial hazard will result from occupancy
of any building or portion thereof before the same is completed, the building
official may issue a temporary certificate of completed construction for the
use of a portion or portions of a building, structure or premises, prior to the
completion of the entire building, structure or premises, or portion thereof.
Such temporary certificate of completed construction shall be valid for a
period of time to be specified by the building official. Upon request of the
owner or permittee, the building official may, in writing, extend the temporary
certificate of completed construction when it is determined that the
circumstances so warrant. After the expiration of a temporary certificate of
completed construction and any extension(s) thereof, the building, structure or
premises, or portion thereof, shall not be used or occupied until the building
official has approved the building for such use or occupancy.
109.6 Live Load Posted. In new construction, a durable sign that indicates the
"live load" shall be required in commercial or industrial buildings where the
floor or roof or portion thereof is or has been designed with a live load that
exceeds 50 psf. The live load sign shall be posted on that part of each story
or roof to which it applies, in a conspicuous place. The live load sign shall
be posted as a condition precedent to the issuance of a certificate of
completed construction certificate. It shall be unlawful to remove or deface
any such sign.
109.7 Continued Use Of Unpermitted And/Or Noncomplying Conditions. When deemed
appropriate by the building official, a certificate of continued use of
unpermitted and/or noncomplying condition(s) may be issued. The certificate
shall not be issued until documentation, satisfactory to the building official,
has been provided indicating that 1) the unpermitted and/or noncomplying
condition(s) were not created by the current owner, and 2) that the current
owner had no knowledge that the conditions were unpermitted and/or noncomplying
at the time of purchase.
An application shall be completed that states 1) that the continued use of the
existing unpermitted construction and/or noncomplying conditions is permitted
by the city only with the owner's understanding that the city in no way assumes
responsibility for the method of construction or the materials used; and 2)
that it is further understood that this application for continued use is not to
be construed as being equivalent in any way to a building permit.
An inspection shall then be made by the building official. Where necessary,
permits shall be issued to correct any conditions deemed to pose a potential
threat to life, limb or property. Once the inspection(s) have been made; all
necessary permits have been obtained, inspected and approved; and all obvious
potential threats to life, limb or property have been corrected, the building
official may approve the application for unpermitted construction and or
noncomplying condition(s). When approved by the building official, conditions
deemed not to pose a potential threat to life, limb or property may be
permitted to remain.
110 Prohibited Uses Of Building Sites
110.1 Flood Hazard. Buildings are not permitted in an area determined by the
building official to be subject to flood hazard by reason of inundation,
overflow or erosion.
The placement of the building and other structures (including walls and fences)
on the building site shall be such that water or mud flow will not be a hazard
to the building or adjacent property. This prohibition shall not apply when
provision is made to eliminate such hazard to the satisfaction of the building
official by providing adequate drainage facilities by protective walls,
suitable fill, raising the floor level of the building, a combination of these
methods, or by other means. The building official, in the application of this
section for buildings, structures, and grading located in whole or in part in
flood hazard areas, shall enforce, as a minimum, the current federal flood
plain management regulations defined in title 44, code of federal regulations,
section 60.3, and may require the applicant or property owner to provide the
following information and/or comply with the following provisions:
      1.   Delineation of flood hazard areas, floodway boundaries and flood
zones, and the design flood elevation, as appropriate;
      2.   The elevation of the proposed lowest floor, including basement, in
flood hazard areas (A zones), and the height of the proposed lowest floor,
including basement, above the highest adjacent grade;
      3.   The elevation of the bottom of the lowest horizontal structural
member in coastal high hazard areas (V zone);
      4.   If the design flood elevations are not included on the community's
flood insurance rate map (FIRM), then the applicant shall obtain and reasonably
utilize any design flood elevation and floodway data available from other
sources, as approved by the building official; and
      5.   During construction, upon placement of the lowest floor, including
basement, and prior to further vertical construction, the permittee shall
provide to the building official documentation, prepared and sealed by a
registered design professional, certifying the elevation of the lowest floor,
including basement.
110.2 Geotechnical Hazards.
110.2.1. No building or grading permit shall be issued under the provisions of
this section when the building official finds that property outside the site of
the proposed work could be damaged by activation or acceleration of a
geotechnically hazardous condition and such activation or acceleration could be
attributed to the proposed work on, or change in use of, the site for which the
permit is requested. For the purpose of this section, a geotechnically
hazardous condition does not include surface displacement due to earthquake
faults.
110.2.2. Except as provided in section 110.2.3, work requiring a building or
grading permit by this code is not permitted in an area determined by the
building official to be subject to hazard from landslide, settlement, or
slippage. For the purpose of this section, landslide, settlement, or slippage
does not include surface displacement due to the earthquake faults.
110.2.3. Subject to the conditions of subsection 110.2.1, permits may be issued
in the following cases.
110.2.3.1. When the applicant has submitted an engineering geology and/or soils
engineering report or reports complying with the provisions of section 111 such
that said reports show to the satisfaction of the building official that the
hazard will be eliminated prior to the use or occupancy of the land or
structures.
110.2.3.2. When the applicant has submitted an engineering geology and/or soils
engineering report or reports that comply with the provisions of section 111,
and that demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the building official, that the
site is safe for the intended use.
110.2.3.3. When the proposed work involves the alteration or minor repair of
existing structures and the cost of such alteration or repair does not exceed
25 percent of the current valuation of the existing structure, such value to be
based on assumed continuation of the established legal use. Before a permit may
be issued pursuant to this section, the owner shall do all of the following:
      1.   If required by the building official, submit an engineering geology
and/or soils engineering report or reports that contain(s), at a minimum, a
qualitative and/or conditional finding that the proposed work complies with the
provisions of section 110.2.1 of this code.
      2.   Record in the office of the department of registrar-recorder, a
statement that the owner is aware that the records of the building official
indicate that the property is potentially subject to hazard from landslide,
settlement, or slippage.
      3.   Record in the office of the department of registrar-recorder, an
agreement relieving the city and all officers and employees thereof of any
liability for any damage or loss which may result from issuance of such a
permit. This agreement shall provide that it is binding on all successors in
interest of the owner and shall continue in effect until the building official
records in the office of the department of registrar-recorder a statement that
the building official has determined that such hazard from landslide,
settlement or slippage no longer exists. The repair work shall consist of
restoring the original construction. The building official may require that
provisions be made in anticipation of future settlement. For the purposes of
this section 110.2.3.3, "alteration" does not include an addition or additions.
110.2.3.4. When the proposed work involves an addition or additions to an
existing structure but is not a change in use or occupancy and such work does
not increase the gross floor area of the structure by more than 25 percent of
the area of the structure as it existed on July 6, 1968, and the building
official determines that the proposed work will not impact a historically
active landslide. Before a permit may be issued pursuant to this section, the
owner shall do all of the following:
      1.   Submit an engineering geology and/or soils engineering report or
reports that contain(s), at a minimum, a qualitative and/or a conditional
finding that the proposed work complies with the provisions of section 110.2.1.
      2.   Record in the office of the department of registrar-recorder the
finding of such report or reports.
      3.   Record in the office of the department of registrar-recorder an
agreement relieving the city and all officers and employees thereof of any
liability for any damage or loss which may result from the issuance of such a
permit. This agreement shall provide that it is binding on all successors in
interest of the owner and shall continue in effect until the building official
records in the office of the department of registrar-recorder a statement that
the building official has determined that a hazard from landslide, settlement,
or slippage no longer exists.
110.2.3.5. When the proposed work involves the repair of a single-family
residence or accessory structures where the cost of such repair exceeds 25
percent of the current valuation of the existing building.
The scope of the repair work shall be subject to the approval of the building
official. Before a permit may be issued pursuant to this section, the owner
shall do all of the following:
      1.   Submit an engineering geology and/or soils engineering report or
reports that contain(s), at a minimum, a qualitative and/or conditional finding
that the proposed work complies with the provisions of section 110.2.1 of this
code.
      2.   Record in the office of the department of registrar-recorder a
statement by the owner acknowledging that the records of the building official
indicate that the property is potentially subject to hazard from landslide,
settlement, or slippage.
      3.   Record in the office of the department of registrar-recorder an
agreement relieving the county and all officers and employees thereof of any
liability for any damage or loss which may result from issuance of such a
permit. This agreement shall provide that it is binding on all successors in
interest of the owner and shall continue in effect until the building official
records in the office of the department of registrar-recorder a statement that
the building official has determined that such hazard from landslide,
settlement, or slippage no longer exists.
110.2.3.6. When the proposed work involves the replacement of structures
destroyed by causes other than landslide, settlement, or slippage, and the
permit applicant was the owner of the property at the time of the loss, their
immediate heir(s), or their authorized representative, and the application for
a permit under this section is filed no later than ten (10) years following the
date of the loss.
The replacement structure(s) shall not exceed the area, number of stories,
load, or number of fixtures and bedrooms of the structure that was destroyed.
No change in occupancy type shall be permitted. Before a permit may be issued
pursuant to this section, the owner shall do all of the following:
      1.   Demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the building official, that the
replacement structure and/or the associated private sewage disposal system (if
any) and/or the replacement landscaping (if any) will not result in a greater
amount of groundwater infiltration than occurred under the original condition.
      2.   Submit an engineering geology and/or soils engineering report or
reports that contain, at a minimum, a qualitative and/or conditional finding
that the proposed work complies with the provisions of section 110.2.1 of this
code and that contain recommendations for enhancing the stability of the site.
      3.   Record in the office of the department of registrar-recorder a
statement by the owner acknowledging that the owner is aware that the records
of the building official indicate that the property is potentially subject to a
hazard from landslide, settlement, or slippage.
      4.   Record in the office of the department of registrar-recorder an
agreement relieving the city and all officers and employees thereof of any
liability for any damage or loss which may result from issuance of such a
permit. This agreement shall provide that it is binding on all successors in
interest of the owner and shall continue in effect until the building official
records in the office of the department of registrar-recorder a statement that
the building official has determined that such hazard from landslide,
settlement, or slippage no longer exists.
110.2.3.7. When the proposed work involves a one-story, detached, light-frame
accessory structure not intended or used for human occupancy and not exceeding
400 square feet in gross floor area nor 12 feet in height. Before a permit may
be issued pursuant to this section, the owner shall do all of the following:
      1.   When required by the building official, submit an engineering
geology and/or soils engineering report or reports that contain, at a minimum,
a qualitative and/or conditional finding that the proposed work complies with
the provisions of section 110.2.1.
      2.   Record in the office of the department of registrar-recorder a
statement by the owner acknowledging that the owner is aware that the records
of the building official indicate that the property is potentially subject to
hazard from landslide, settlement, or slippage.
      3.   Record in the office of the department of registrar-recorder an
agreement relieving the city and all officers and employees thereof of any
liability for any damage or loss which may result from issuance of such a
permit. This agreement shall provide that it is binding on all successors in
interest of the owner and shall continue in effect until the building official
records in the office of the department of registrar-recorder a statement that
the building official has determined that such hazard from landslide,
settlement, or slippage no longer exists.
110.2.3.8. When the building official determines that the hazard from
landslide, settlement, or slippage is based solely on the fact that the area
has been identified as a potentially liquefiable area in a seismic hazard zone
(pursuant to Public Resources Code section 2690 et seq.) and a foundation
investigation is performed in connection with the work in accordance with
section 1803 of this code.
110.2.3.9. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this section, the building
official may, at his or her discretion, deny a permit for any building,
structure, or grading subject to hazard from landslide, settlement, or
slippage, which cannot be mitigated and may endanger the health or safety of
the occupants, adjoining property, or the public.
110.2.3.10. When the proposed work involves the repair and restoration of a
slope. Before a permit may be issued pursuant to this section, the owner shall
submit an engineering geology and/or soils engineering report or reports that
contain(s) the following:
      1.   A description and analysis of the existing conditions, including the
cause or causes of the failed slope.
      2.   Recommendations for the repair of the failed slope.
      3.   A qualitative and/or conditional finding that the proposed work
complies with the provisions of section 110.2.1 of this code.
      4.   An analysis demonstrating that future failures originating from the
repaired portion of the slope will not impact previously permitted structures.
      5.   An analysis demonstrating that the proposed work will improve
existing slope stability.
111 Engineering Geology And Soils Engineering Reports
The building official may require an engineering geology or soils engineering
report, or both, where in the building official's opinion, such reports are
essential for the evaluation of the safety of the site. The engineering geology
or soils engineering report or both shall contain a finding regarding the
safety of the site of the proposed work against hazard from landslide,
settlement or slippage and a finding regarding the effect that the proposed
work will have on the geotechnical stability of the area outside of the
proposed work. Any engineering geology report shall be prepared by a certified
engineering geologist licensed in the state of California. Any soils
engineering report shall be prepared by a civil engineer licensed in the state
of California, experienced in the field of soil mechanics, or a geotechnical
engineer licensed in the state of California. When both an engineering geology
and soils engineering report are required for the evaluation of the safety of a
building site, the two reports shall be coordinated before submission to the
building official.
112 Earthquake Fault Maps
Earthquake fault zone maps within the city prepared under sections 2622 and
2623 of the California Public Resources Code which show traces of earthquake
faults are hereby declared to be, on the date of official issue, a part of this
code, and may be referred to elsewhere in this code. Earthquake fault zone maps
revised under the above sections of the California Public Resources Code shall,
on the date of their official issue, supersede previously issued maps which
they replace.
113 Earthquake Faults
113.1 General. The construction of a building or structure near a known active
earthquake fault and regulated by this code shall be permitted as set forth in
this section.
113.2 Scope. The provisions of this section shall apply only to permits for
buildings or structures on individual lots or parcels and are not intended to
be supplementary to geologic investigations required to qualify divisions of
land as set forth in title 9 chapter 2 (Subdivision Regulations) the city of
Temple City municipal code.
113.3 Definition. For the purpose of this section, a geologist shall be a
professional geologist, licensed by the California state board for geologists
and geophysicists to practice geology in California.
113.4 Known Active Earthquake Faults. For the purpose of this section, known
active earthquake faults are those faults which have had displacement within
Holocene time (approximately the last 11,000 years) as defined in the most
current issue of Special Publication 42 of the California geological survey.
113.5 Construction Limitations. No building or structure shall be constructed
over or upon the trace of a known active earthquake fault which is shown on
maps maintained by the building official. These maps include, but are not
limited to, earthquake fault zone maps prepared under sections 2622 and 2623 of
the California Public Resources Code.
The absence of a known active earthquake fault trace at the proposed building
location shall be determined by a professional geologist licensed in the state
of California in the following cases:
      1.   When the proposed building is within (50) feet (15.24 m) of that
line designated by the building official as the assumed location of a known
active earthquake fault on the aforementioned maps.
      2.   When the proposed building is within 50 feet (15.24 m) of the most
probable ground location of the trace of a known active earthquake fault shown
on the aforementioned maps.
In these cases, the building official may require the excavation of a trench,
for the purpose of determining the existence of an active earthquake fault.
Such a trench will be required if a lack of distinguishable fault features in
the vicinity prevents the building official from determining by a site
examination, review of available aerial photographs, or by other means that the
fault trace does not underlie the proposed building. The trench shall be
approximately perpendicular to the most probable direction of the fault trace,
at least 1-1/2 feet (0.45 m) wide, and at least five feet in depth measured
from natural grade, or to a depth satisfactory to the building official.
The trench must be accessible for mapping and inspection by the building
official, when requested, and meet the requirements of title 8 of the
California code of regulations, construction safety orders. The trench need not
extend further than the full width of the proposed structure plus 5 feet (1.52
m) beyond the traversed exterior walls. A known active earthquake fault shall
be presumed nonexistent if an exposure is not found by the professional
geologist in the walls or floor of the trench.
The building official may require a more extensive investigation by a
professional geologist as evidence to the absence of a known active earthquake
fault prior to the issuance of a permit for groups A, E, I, H and R, division 1
occupancies and B, F, M and S occupancies over one story in height.
The results of the investigation, conclusions and recommendations shall be
presented in a geology report prepared by a professional geologist as defined
by section 113.3. The report shall comply with the guidelines presented in note
49 prepared by the California department of conservation, geological survey.
Exception: The provisions of this section do not apply to:
      1.   One-story, detached light-frame buildings not intended or used for
human occupancy and not exceeding 1,000 square feet (92.9 m2) in gross floor
area or 12 feet (3.66 m) in building height.
      2.   Alterations or repairs to an existing building provided that the
aggregate value of such work within any 12-month period does not exceed 50
percent of the current market value of the existing building. For the purposes
of this section 113.5, "alteration" does not include an addition or additions.
      3.   Swimming pools, retaining walls, fences and minor work of a similar
nature.
114 Factory-Built Housing
114.1. Plans shall be submitted for plan review for all field- built portions
of factory-built structures that clearly describe all work to be done at the
site, including connection and/or anchorage of the factory-built structure to
the field-built foundation and connection of utilities. Plans shall indicate
compliance with this code, relevant laws, ordinances, rules and regulations for
all work that is to be done at the site.
115 Fees
115.1. Plan review fees shall be as adopted by a separate resolution and/or
ordinance.
Plan checking fees shall be paid at the time of plan review submittal. In
addition to the aforementioned fees, the building official may require
additional charges for review required by changes, additions or revisions of
approved plans or reports, and for services beyond the first and second check
due to changes, omissions or errors on the part of the applicant.
115.2. Permit fees shall be as adopted by separate resolution and/or ordinance.
Permit fees shall be paid at the time of permit issuance.
115.3. The determination of value or valuation under any of the provisions of
this code shall be made by the building official. The valuation to be used in
computing the permit and plan check fees shall be the total value of all
construction work for which the permit is issued, as well as all finish work,
painting, roofing, electrical, plumbing, heating, air conditioning, elevators,
fire protection systems and any other permanent work or permanent equipment.
116 Refunds
116.1 Permit Refunds. In the event that any person shall have obtained a permit
and no portion of the work or construction covered by such permit shall have
been commenced, and such permit shall have been cancelled as provided for in
section 107.8, the permittee may submit a written request to the building
official requesting a refund of permit fees. Permit fees in an amount equal to
80 percent may be refunded to the permit applicant, but permit issuance fees
shall not. The building official shall satisfy himself or herself as to the
right of such applicant to such refund, and each such refund shall be paid to
the permit applicant, provided the request has been submitted within one year
from the date of cancellation or expiration of the permit.
116.2 Plan Check Refunds. No portion of the plan checking fee shall be
refunded, unless no review has been performed, in which case 80 percent of the
plan checking fee shall be refunded. The building official shall satisfy
himself or herself as to the right of such applicant to such refund, and each
such refund shall be paid to the plan check applicant, provided the request has
been submitted within one year from the date of cancellation or expiration of
the permit.
117 Inspections
117.1 General. All construction or work for which a permit is required shall be
subject to inspection by the building official, and all such construction or
work shall remain accessible and exposed for inspection purposes until approved
by the building official.
In addition to the inspections required to be made by the building official,
certain types of construction shall have continuous inspection as specified in
chapter 17. Special inspections made in accordance with chapter 17 shall not
relieve the permit applicant of the responsibility to have the work inspected
and approved by the building official.
Approval as a result of an inspection shall not be construed to be an approval
of a violation of any provision of this code, relevant laws, ordinances, rules
or regulations. Inspections presuming to give authority to violate or cancel
the provisions of this code, relevant laws, ordinances, rules and regulations
shall not be valid.
It shall be the duty of the permit applicant to cause the work to remain
accessible and exposed for inspection purposes. Neither the building official
nor the jurisdiction shall be liable for expense entailed in the removal or
replacement of any material required to allow inspection.
It shall be the duty of the permit applicant to provide access for the
inspector to the area of work. Access may include, but shall not be limited to,
ladders, scaffolding, catwalks and lifts. It shall be the duty of the permit
applicant to maintain a safe access path for the inspector to the area of work.
Safety precautions may include, but shall not be limited to, handrails,
guardrails and safety harnesses. All components of the access path shall be
securely anchored in place. The building inspector shall have the right to
refuse to make any inspection in an area that does not have an access path
deemed safe for use by said building inspector. It shall be the duty of the
permit applicant to make any necessary improvements to the access path to allow
inspection by the building inspector.
It shall be the duty of the permit applicant to protect all existing
construction from damage caused during inspection. Neither the building
official nor the jurisdiction shall be liable for expense entailed in the
removal or replacement of any material damaged during the course of inspection.
For additional provisions, applicable to grading, see appendix J.
117.2 Inspection Requests. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to notify
the building official that work authorized by a permit is ready for inspection.
The building official may require that every request for inspection be filed at
least one working day before such inspection is desired. Such request may be in
writing or by telephone at the option of the building official.
It shall be the duty of the person requesting any inspection required by this
code, relevant laws, ordinances, rules and regulations to provide access to and
means for inspection of such work.
For additional provisions, applicable to grading, see appendix J.
117.3 Inspection Record Card. When deemed necessary by the building official,
work requiring a permit shall not be commenced until the applicant has posted
or otherwise made available an inspection record card so as to allow the
building official to conveniently make the required entries thereon regarding
inspection of the work. This card shall continue to be posted or otherwise made
available by the permit holder until final approval of the permit has been
granted by the building official.
For additional provisions, applicable to grading, see appendix J.
117.4 Work Ready For Inspection.
117.4.1 General. Upon notification from the applicant that the work for which
there is a valid permit is ready for inspection, the building official shall be
allowed to make all applicable inspections specified in this code, on the
inspection record card and any additional inspections required by the building
official.
No work shall be approved by the building official that was not completely
verified. Partial or spot inspections shall not be performed by the building
official, nor shall partial or spot inspection be used as a justification for
approving any required inspection.
Inspection by a special inspector shall not be made in-lieu of any inspections
required to be made by the building official.
For additional provisions, applicable to grading, see appendix J.
117.4.2 Minimum Inspection Requirements. The following inspections shall not be
requested until the associated requirements have been satisfied.
      1.   Foundation Inspection: Shall not be requested until all trenches are
excavated and forms erected, any required reinforcing steel is in place, and
when all materials for the foundation are delivered to the job. All holdown
hardware shall be securely installed in place. Where concrete from a central
mixing plant (commonly termed "transit mixed") is to be used, materials need
not be on the job.
Where any fill more than 8 inches in depth is placed, and/or where required by
the building official or the soils engineer, compaction tests shall be
submitted to the building official prior to requesting inspection.
Where required by the soils engineer, foundation trenching shall be reviewed
and approved by the soils engineer prior to requesting inspection.
      2.   Concrete Slab Or Under-Floor Inspection: Shall not be requested
until all in-slab or under-floor building service equipment, conduit, piping
accessories and other ancillary equipment items are in place, but before any
concrete is poured and/or floor sheathing installed, including the subfloor.
      3.   Floor Sheathing Inspection: Floor sheathing inspection shall not be
requested until all sheathing is in place; all diaphragm nailing is complete;
and all diaphragm ties, chords and/or drag struts have been installed. No walls
shall be erected above the floor sheathing.
      4.   Roof Sheathing Inspection: Roof sheathing inspection shall not be
requested until all sheathing is in place; all diaphragm nailing is complete;
and all diaphragm ties, chords and/or drag struts have been installed. No
portion of the roof sheathing shall be covered by crickets or similar
construction.
      5.   Frame Inspection: Shall not be requested until after the roof, all
framing, fire blocking and bracing are in place and all pipes, chimneys, vents
and all rough electrical, plumbing and mechanical work are complete. Roof
coverings shall not be installed.
      6.   Lath Inspection And/Or Wallboard: Shall not be requested until after
all lathing and/or wallboard, interior and exterior, is in place, but before
any plastering is applied or before wallboard joints and fasteners are taped
and finished.
      7.   Final Inspection: Shall not be requested until after finish grading
and the building is completed and is ready for occupancy.
      8.   Other Inspections: In addition to the inspections specified above,
the building official shall be allowed to make all applicable inspections
specified on the inspection record card. The building official may also make or
require any other inspections of any construction work to ascertain compliance
with the provisions of this code, relevant laws, ordinances, rules and
regulations that are enforced by the building official.
For additional provisions, applicable to grading, see appendix J.
117.4.3 Reinspections. An inspection fee may be assessed for reinspection, as
determined by the building official, for any of the following reasons:
      1.   The portion of work for which inspection is requested is not
complete;
      2.   Corrections given are not completed;
      3.   There is inadequate work site access preventing inspection;
      4.   The inspection record card is not posted or otherwise available on
the work site;
      5.   The approved plans are not available for the inspector;
      6.   Work has deviated from the approved plans and has not been approved
by the building official.
This section is not to be interpreted as requiring additional inspection fees
the first time a job is rejected for failure to comply with the requirements of
this code.
To obtain re-inspection, the applicant shall pay the re- inspection fee in
advance, as determined per the fee resolution.
117.5 Provisions For Special Inspection.
117.5.1 When Required. In addition to the inspections required elsewhere in
this section, the owner shall employ one or more special inspectors who shall
provide inspections during construction on the types of work listed under
chapter 17. The special inspector may be employed either directly or through
the architect or engineering firm in charge of the design of the structure, or
through an independent inspection test firm approved by the building official.
Exception: The building official may waive the requirement for the employment
of a special inspector if the construction is of a minor nature.
117.5.2 Identification Of Work. When special inspection is required by section
117.5.1, the architect or engineer of record shall identify on the plans all
work that is required to have special inspection.
Where the special inspection method(s) to be employed are not specified
elsewhere in this code, relevant laws, ordinances, rules and/or regulations,
the architect or engineer of record shall prepare an inspection program that
shall be submitted to and approved by the building official prior to building
permit issuance.
The special inspector(s) may be employed by the owner, the engineer or
architect of record, or an agent of the owner, but shall not be employed by the
contractor, the contractor's employees, representatives or agents of the
contractor, or any other person performing the work.
The architect or engineer of record shall identify, on forms provided by the
city, the individual(s) and/or firm(s) who are to perform any required special
inspection, and where an inspection program is required by this section, shall
specify the special inspection duties of the special inspector(s).
117.5.3 Qualifications, Requirements And Duties Of The Special Inspector. The
special inspector shall be approved by the building official prior to
performing any inspection duties. The special inspector shall complete an
application form provided by the city and shall submit documentation
satisfactory to the building official that the special inspector is qualified
to make the special inspection(s) for which application is made. The building
official shall have the right to administer a written or verbal examination as
deemed appropriate by the building official to verify that the special
inspector is qualified to perform the inspection duties for which application
is made. A special inspector who fails to pass the examination administered by
the building official shall be required to wait a minimum of seven (7) days
before submitting a new application to provide special inspection within the
city.
The building official shall not be required to accept any documentation
provided by a special inspector who was not approved by the building official
prior to performing inspection duties. Neither the building official nor the
jurisdiction shall be liable for expense entailed in the removal or replacement
of any material(s) or work installed, constructed or placed under the review of
a special inspector who was not approved by the building official.
Failure to be approved by the building official prior to performing any special
inspection duties may be considered by the building official as a failure to
perform properly and shall allow the building official to refuse to allow the
special inspector to perform inspection within the city.
The special inspector shall observe the work assigned for conformance with the
approved design drawings.
The special inspector shall furnish inspection reports to the building
official. All observed discrepancies shall be brought to the immediate
attention of the contractor for correction, then if uncorrected, to the proper
design authority and to the building official.
The special inspector shall submit a final signed report stating that the work
requiring special inspection was, to the best of the inspector's knowledge, in
conformance with the approved plans and the applicable workmanship provisions
of this code.
The building official shall have the right to reject any work performed under
the review of a special inspector where the work performed fails to meet the
minimum requirements of this code, relevant laws, ordinances, rules and
regulations. Regardless of the information communicated between the permit
applicant and the special inspector, all work shall comply with the approved
plans and this code, relevant laws, ordinances, rules and regulations.
Upon evidence, satisfactory to the building official, of the failure of a
special inspector to perform properly and effectively the duties of said
office, the building official may revoke, suspend or refuse to allow the
special inspector to perform inspection on sites within the city. Prior to such
action, the holder shall be given an opportunity to appear before the building
official and be heard.
117.6 Provisions For Structural Observation. When structural observation is
required in accordance with the requirements of chapter 17, the engineer or
architect of record shall indicate on the plans what work is required to be
observed by the engineer or architect responsible for the structural design, or
the engineer or architect responsible for the structural design shall prepare
an inspection program and shall name the individuals or firms who are to
perform structural observation and describe the stages of construction at which
structural observation is to occur. The inspection program shall include
samples of inspection reports and provide time limits for the submission of
observation reports. The program shall be submitted to and approved by the
building official prior to building permit issuance.
When required by the engineer or architect responsible for the structural
design or the building official, the owner shall employ the engineer or
architect responsible for the structural design, or another engineer or
architect designated by the engineer or architect responsible for the
structural design, to perform structural observation as defined in section 202.
When deemed appropriate by the engineer or architect responsible for the
structural design, the owner or owner's representative shall coordinate and
call a preconstruction meeting between the engineer or architect responsible
for the structural design, the structural observer, the contractor, the
affected subcontractors and the special inspector(s). The structural observer
shall preside over the meeting. The purpose of the meeting shall be to identify
the major structural elements and connections that affect the vertical and
lateral load systems of the structure and to review scheduling of the required
observations. A record of the meeting shall be submitted to the building
official.
All observed discrepancies shall be brought to the immediate attention of the
engineer or architect responsible for the structural design and the contractor
for correction; then if unresolved, to the building official. The structural
observer shall submit to the building official a written statement at each
significant construction stage stating that the required site visits have been
made and identifying any reported deficiencies which, to the best of the
structural observer's knowledge, have not been resolved.
The structural observer shall submit a final signed report stating that the
work requiring structural observation was, to the best of the observer's
knowledge, in conformance with the approved plans and the applicable
workmanship provisions of this code.
117.7 Required Approvals. No work shall be done on any part of the building
structure or premises beyond the point indicated in each successive inspection
without first obtaining the written approval of the building official. The
building official, upon notification, shall make the requested inspections and
shall either indicate in writing that the work appears to comply as completed,
or shall notify the applicant in writing which portion of the work fails to
comply with this code, relevant laws, ordinances, rules and/or regulations. Any
work that does not comply shall be corrected and such work shall not be covered
or concealed until authorized by the building official.
There shall be a final inspection and approval of all work when completed and
ready for occupancy.
For additional provisions, applicable to grading, see appendix J.
117.8 Site Requirements. A survey of the lot may be required by the building
official to verify compliance of the structure with the approved plans.
117.9 Noninspected Work. No person shall own, use, occupy or maintain any
structure on which noninspected work has been performed.
117.10 Utility Release. When deemed appropriate by the building official, gas
and electric utilities may be released. Release of either utility may be done
prior to building final for testing and inspection purposes. The building
official shall retain the right to revoke the release of either utility for
just cause, and may have either utility disconnected at the earliest
availability of the utility purveyor.
Attempting to occupy prior to issuance of a certificate of completed
construction, whether temporary or final, may be considered as just cause by
the building official, and may result in disconnection of the utilities.
117.11 Authority To Disconnect Electric Utility. The building official is
hereby empowered to disconnect or to order in writing the discontinuance of
electric utility service to buildings, structures or premises, or portions
thereof, or wiring, devices or materials installed without permit or found to
be a hazard to life, health and/or property.
The building official shall have the power to disconnect or to order in writing
the discontinuance of electric utility service as a means of preventing,
restraining, correcting or abating any violation of this code, relevant laws,
ordinances, rules or regulations.
The electrical service shall remain disconnected or electrical utility service
shall remain discontinued until the code violation has been abated to the
satisfaction of the building official, or until the installation of such
wiring, devices or materials have been made safe as directed by the building
official; or until a permit has been issued and the work has been inspected and
approved by the building official.
117.12 Authority To Disconnect Gas Utility. The building official is hereby
empowered to disconnect or to order in writing the discontinuance of gas
utility service to buildings, structures, premises, appliances, devices or
materials installed without permit or found to be a hazard to life, health and/
or property.
The building official shall have the power to disconnect or to order in writing
the discontinuance of gas utility service as a means of preventing,
restraining, correcting or abating any violation of this code, relevant laws,
ordinances, rules or regulations.
The gas service shall remain disconnected or gas utility service shall remain
discontinued until the code violation has been abated to the satisfaction of
the building official, or until the installation of such appliances, devices or
materials has been made safe as directed by the building official; or until a
permit has been issued and the work has been inspected and approved by the
building official.
(Ord. 16-1020)
7-1-1: ADOPTION OF LOS ANGELES COUNTY CODE, TITLE 26, BUILDING CODE:
Chapters 2 through 35, 66, 67, 96, 98, 99 and Appendices C, F, H, I, J and O of
Title 26, Los Angeles County Building Code, as amended and in effect on or
before January 1, 2023, adopting the 2022 California Building Code, is hereby
adopted by reference pursuant to the provisions of Sections 50022.1 through
50022.10 of the Government Code of the State of California as though fully set
forth herein, and made a part of the Temple City Municipal Code with the same
force and effect as though set out herein in full, including all of the
regulations, revisions, conditions and terms contained therein except as
revised in this ordinance by section 7-1.02 below.
In accordance with Section 50022.6 of the California Government Code, not less
than one copy of said Title 26 of the Los Angeles County Code together with any
and all amendments thereto proposed by the City of Temple City, has been and is
now filed in the office of the Building and Safety Division, shall be remain on
file with the Building Official, shall collectively be known as the City of
Temple City Building Code and may be cited as Title 7 Chapter 1 of the City of
Temple City Municipal Code. (Ord. 16-1020; amd. Ord. 19-1037; Ord. 22-1066)
7-1-2: BUILDING CODE MODIFIED:
Chapters Appendix J of Title 26 of the Los Angeles County Code, adopted by
reference as the Building Code of the City of Temple City, are hereby amended,
deleted or added as follows:
   A.   Section J103.5 is amended in its entirety to read:
      J 103.5 Grading Fees. Fees shall be assessed in accordance with the
provisions of this section.
      Fees shall be assessed in accordance with the provisions of this section.
The amount of the fees shall be as specified in Section 115 of this code.
      J 103.5.1 Plan Review Fees. When a plan or other data are required to be
submitted, a plan review fee shall be paid at the time of submitting plans and
specifications for review. Separate plan review fees shall apply to retaining
walls or major drainage structures as required elsewhere in this code. For
excavation and fill on the same site, the fee shall be based on the total
volume of excavation and fill.
      J 103.5.2 Permit Fees. A fee for each grading permit shall be paid to the
Building Official at the time of issuance of the permit. Separate permits and
fees shall apply to retaining walls or major drainage structures as required
elsewhere in this code.
   B.   Section J 103.6 is amended in its entirety to read:
      J 103.6 Compliance with Zoning Code. The building official may refuse to
issue a grading permit for work on a site if either the proposed grading or the
proposed land use for the site shown on the grading plan application does not
comply with the provisions of "Zoning Regulations" of the City of Temple City
Municipal Code.
   C.   Section J105.12 is amended in its entirety to read;
      J 105.12 Completion of work. Upon completion of the rough grading work
and at the final completion of the work, the following reports and drawings and
supplements thereto are required for engineered grading or when professional
inspection is otherwise required by the Building Official:
      1.   A certification by the Field Engineer that to the best of his or her
knowledge, the work within the Field Engineer's area of responsibility was done
in accordance with the final approved grading plan.
      2.   A report prepared by the Soils Engineer retained to provide such
services in accordance with Section J105.4, including locations and elevations
of field density tests, summaries of field and laboratory tests, other
substantiating data, and comments on any changes made during grading and their
effect on the recommendations made in the approved soils engineering
investigation report. The report shall include a certification by the Soils
Engineer that to the best of his or her knowledge, the work within the Soils
Engineer's area of responsibility is in accordance with the approved Soils
Engineering report and applicable provisions of this chapter. The report shall
contain a finding regarding the safety of the completed grading and any
proposed structures against hazard from landslide, settlement, or slippage.
      3.   A report prepared by the Engineering Geologist retained to provide
such services in accordance with Section J105.5, including a final description
of the geology of the site and any new information disclosed during the grading
and the effect of such new information, if any, on the recommendations
incorporated in the approved grading plan. The report shall contain a
certification by the Engineering Geologist that, to the best of his or her
knowledge, the work within the Engineering Geologists area of responsibility is
in accordance with the approved engineering geology report and applicable
provisions of this Chapter. The report shall contain a finding regarding the
safety of the completed grading and any proposed structures against hazard from
landslide, settlement. or slippage. The report shall contain a final as-built
geologic map and cross-sections depicting all the information collected prior
to and during grading,
      4.   The grading contractor shall certify, on a form prescribed by the
Building Official that the grading conforms to the approved plans and
specifications.
(Ord. 16-1020; amd. Ord. 19-1037; Ord. 22-1066)
7-1-3: EFFECT OF ADOPTION:
The adoption of the city Building Code and the repeal, addition or amendment of
ordinances by this code shall not affect the following matters:
   A.   Actions and proceedings which began the effective date of this code.
   B.   Prosecution for ordinance violations committed before the effective
date of this code.
   C.   Licenses and penalties due and unpaid at the effective date of this
code, and the collection of these licenses and penalties.
   D.   Bonds and cash deposits required to be posted, filed or deposited
pursuant to any ordinance.
   E.   Matters of record which refer to or are connected with ordinances the
substances of which are included in this code; these references shall be
construed to apply to the corresponding provisions of the code. (Ord. 16-1020;
amd. Ord. 19-1037; Ord. 22-1066)
7-1-4: PENALTY; VIOLATIONS:
   A.   General Penalty; Continuing Violations: Every act prohibited or
declared unlawful and every failure to perform an act required by this code is
a misdemeanor or an infraction as set forth in the said respective pertinent
sections of this code and any person causing or permitting a violation of any
such section of said code shall be subject to the penalties ascribed to each
such section as set forth herein. Where silent, as to whether a violation is a
misdemeanor or infraction, the City Attorney may prosecute such violation as
either a misdemeanor or infraction in his/her discretion.
   B.   Violations Including Aiding, Abetting, And Concealing: Every person who
causes, aids, abets or conceals the fact of a violation of this code is guilty
of violating this code.
   C.   Enforcement By Civil Action: In addition to the penalties provided
herein, the said code may be enforced by civil action. Any condition existing
in violation of this code is a public nuisance and may be summarily abated by
the city. (Ord. 16-1020; amd. Ord. 19-1037; Ord. 22-1066)
CHAPTER 2
MECHANICAL CODE
SECTION:
7-2-0: Mechanical Code Administration
7-2-1: Los Angeles County Code, Title 29, Mechanical Code, Adopted
7-2-2: Effect Of Adoption
7-2-3: Penalty; Violations
7-2-0: MECHANICAL CODE ADMINISTRATION:
Except as hereinafter changed or modified, the administration of the mechanical
code shall be as set forth in section
7-1-0, "Building Code Administration", of this title.
101 Title, Purpose, Intent And Scope
101.1 Title. Title 7 Building Regulations, chapter 2 of the city of Temple City
municipal code shall be known as the Mechanical Code Of The City Of Temple
City, may be cited as such, and will be referred to herein as "these
regulations" or "these building standards" or "this code".
101.3 Scope. The provisions of this code shall apply to the erection,
alteration, installation, repair, relocation, movement, improvement, removal,
connection or conversion, use or maintenance of any heating, ventilating,
cooling, refrigeration systems, incinerators or other miscellaneous heat-
producing appliances mechanical equipment and/or appliances or any other
mechanical work regulated by this code within the city.
Where, in any specific case, different sections of this code specify different
materials, methods of construction or other requirements, the most restrictive
shall govern. Where there is a conflict between a general requirement and a
specific requirement, the specific requirement shall be applicable.
In the event any differences in requirements exist between the accessibility
requirements of this code and the accessibility requirements of the California
code of regulations, title 24 (also referred to as the California building
standards code), then the California code of regulations shall govern.
106.1 Plan Check Requirements. When required by the building official to verify
compliance with this code, relevant laws, ordinances, rules and regulations;
plans and, when deemed necessary by the building official, calculations, and
other required data shall be submitted for plan review. The building official
may require plans and calculations to be prepared by an engineer registered by
the state to practice as such. Only after the plans have been approved may the
applicant apply for a mechanical permit for such work. The building official
may also require such plans be reviewed by other departments and/or divisions
of the city to verify compliance with the laws and ordinances under their
jurisdiction.
Separate mechanical code plan review is required for any of the following:
(a) To verify compliance with state energy requirements when such information
is not shown completely on the building plans;
(b) Installations where the aggregate btu input capacity for either comfort
heating or comfort cooling is more than 500,000 btu;
(c) Type I or type II commercial hoods;
(d) Parking garage exhaust ventilation systems;
(e) Product conveying duct system;
(f) Spray booths;
(g) Stair pressurization systems;
(h) Installation of fire dampers, smoke dampers and/or combination smoke/fire
dampers;
(i) Air moving systems supplying air in excess of 2000 cfm and where smoke
detectors are required in the duct work;
(j) Any installation in a building of type I-A, type II-A, type III-A, type IV
or type V-A fire-resistive construction where penetrations are required of
fire-resistive walls, floors or ceilings.
Plans, calculations, reports or documents for work regulated by this code,
relevant laws, ordinances, rules and regulations shall bear the seal, signature
and number of a mechanical engineer when required by the California Business
And Professions Code. A seal and number shall not be required for work
authorized by the said article to be performed by a person not registered or
certified as an engineer or architect.
106.3 Information Required On Mechanical Plans. Plans shall be drawn to scale
upon substantial paper or other material suitable to the building official,
shall be of sufficient clarity to indicate the nature and scope of the work
proposed, and shall show in detail that the proposed construction will conform
to the provisions of this code and all relevant laws, ordinances, rules and
regulations.
The first sheet of each set of plans shall give the street address of the
proposed work and the name, address and telephone number of the owner and all
persons who were involved in the design and preparation of the plans.
Where the scope of the proposed work involves the following, unless otherwise
approved by the building official, the mechanical plans shall indicate the
following:
(a) A complete floor plan showing the location of all proposed mechanical
equipment, duct work, vents, etc.;
(b) A complete plan showing the layout, diameter and material of all proposed
piping;
(c) A legend of all symbols used and a list of all abbreviations used;
(d) The location of all proposed inlets, outlets, diffusers, etc.;
(e) The btu/hr and/or cfm rating of all equipment;
(f) Any other information requested by the building official.
Plans for buildings more than two stories in height of other than group R-3 and
group U occupancies shall indicate how required fire-resistive integrity will
be maintained where a penetration will be made for mechanical piping and
similar systems.
When deemed necessary by the building official, the first sheet of each set of
plans shall indicate the building type of construction as defined in the
building code and the mechanical code in effect on the date of plan check
submittal.
107.1 Mechanical Permit Required. No person shall erect, alter, install,
repair, move, improve, remove, connect or convert, or cause the same to be
done, any mechanical equipment without first obtaining a mechanical permit from
the building official.
The issuance of a permit without first requiring a plan review shall not
prevent the building official from requesting plans deemed necessary to verify
that the work performed under said permit complies with this code and all
relevant laws, ordinances, rules and regulations.
107.2 Work Exempted From Mechanical Permit. A mechanical permit shall not be
required for the following:
(a) Installation of portable appliances or equipment used for heating
ventilating, or cooling (refrigeration or evaporative) which does not require
either a building permit or an electrical permit to install;
(b) Repair or replacement of steam, hot, or chilled water piping, and
refrigeration piping which were previously permitted and inspected under a
valid mechanical permit;
(c) Repair or replacement of components to a refrigeration system which were
previously permitted and inspected under a valid mechanical permit.
(d) Repair or replacement of any component, part or assembly of an appliance
which does not alter its original approval and complies with the other
applicable requirements of this code;
(e) Any unit refrigerating system.
Exemption from the permit requirements of this code shall not be deemed to
grant authorization for any work to be done in any manner in violation of the
provisions of other laws or ordinances.
(Ord. 16-1020)
7-2-1: LOS ANGELES COUNTY CODE, TITLE 29, MECHANICAL CODE, ADOPTED:
Los Angeles County Mechanical Code Chapter 2 through Chapter 17 and Appendices
B, C and D, Title 29, the 2023 Los Angeles County Mechanical Code, as amended
and in effect on or before January 1, 2023, adopting the 2022 California
Mechanical Code, is hereby adopted by reference pursuant to the provisions of
Sections 50022.1 through 50022.10 of the Government Code of the State of
California as though fully set forth herein, and made a part of the Temple City
Municipal Code with the same force and effect as though set out herein in full,
including all of the regulations, revisions, conditions and terms contained
therein.
Not less than one copy of said Title 29 of the Los Angeles County Mechanical
Code together with any and all amendments thereto proposed by the City of
Temple City, has been and is now filed in the office of the Building and Safety
Division and shall be remain on file with Building Official, and shall
collectively be known as the City of Temple City Mechanical Code and may be
cited as Title 7 Chapter 2 of the City of Temple City Municipal Code. (Ord. 16-
1020; amd. Ord. 16-1037; Ord. 22-1066)
7-2-2: EFFECT OF ADOPTION:
The adoption of this code and the repeal, addition or amendment of ordinances
by this code shall not affect the following matters:
   A.   Actions and proceedings which began the effective date of this code.
   B.   Prosecution for ordinance violations committed before the effective
date of this code.
   C.   Licenses and penalties due and unpaid at the effective date of this
code, and the collection of these licenses and penalties.
   D.   Bonds and cash deposits required to be posted, filed or deposited
pursuant to any ordinance.
   E.   Matters of record which refer to or are connected with ordinances the
substances of which are included in this code; these references shall be
construed to apply to the corresponding provisions of the code. (Ord. 16-1020;
amd. Ord. 16-1037; Ord. 22-1066)
7-2-3: PENALTY; VIOLATIONS:
   A.   General Penalty; Continuing Violations: Every act prohibited or
declared unlawful and every failure to perform an act required by this code is
a misdemeanor or an infraction as set forth in the said respective pertinent
sections of this code and any person causing or permitting a violation of any
such section of said code shall be subject to the penalties ascribed to each
such section as set forth herein. Where silent, as to whether a violation is a
misdemeanor or infraction, the City Attorney may prosecute such violation as
either a misdemeanor or infraction in his/her discretion.
   B.   Violations Including Aiding, Abetting, And Concealing: Every person who
causes, aids, abets or conceals the fact of a violation of this code is guilty
of violating this code.
   C.   Enforcement By Civil Action: In addition to the penalties provided
herein, the said code may be enforced by civil action. Any condition existing
in violation of this code is a public nuisance and may be summarily abated by
the city. (Ord. 16-1020; amd. Ord. 16-1037; Ord. 22-1066)
CHAPTER 3
ELECTRICAL CODE
SECTION:
7-3-0: Electrical Code Administration
7-3-1: Los Angeles County Code, Title 27, Electrical Code, Adopted
7-3-2: Effect Of Adoption
7-3-3: Penalty; Violations
7-3-0: ELECTRICAL CODE ADMINISTRATION:
Except as hereinafter changed or modified, the administration of the electrical
code shall be as set forth in section
7-1-0, "Building Code Administration", of this title.
101 Title, Purpose, Intent And Scope
101.1 Title. Title 7 Building Regulations, chapter 3 of the city of Temple City
municipal code shall be known as the Electrical Code Of The City Of Temple
City, may be cited as such, and will be referred to herein as "these
regulations" or "these building standards" or "this code".
101.3 Scope And Applicability. The provisions of this code shall apply to the
erection, alteration, installation, repair, movement, improvement, removal
connection or conversion of any electrical equipment and/or appliances or any
other electrical work regulated by this code within the city.
Exception: The provisions of this code shall not apply to public utilities; or
to electrical wiring for street lighting or traffic signals located primarily
in a public way; or to mechanical equipment not specifically regulated in this
code. The provisions of this code shall not apply to any electrical work
performed by or for any electrical corporation, telephone corporation,
telegraph corporation, railroad corporation or street railroad corporation on
or with any electrical equipment owned or controlled and operated, or used by
and for the exclusive benefit of, such corporation in the conduct of its
business as a public utility, or to any other work which any such corporation
may be entitled by law to perform without payment of any local tax; but all
provisions of this code shall apply insofar as they may consistently with the
above be applicable to all other electrical work performed by or for any such
corporation.
The terms "electrical corporation", "telephone corporation", railroad
corporation", and "street railroad corporation" are herein used as said terms
are respectively defined in the Public Utilities Code of the state of
California; and such terms shall also be deemed to include similar utilities
which are municipally or governmentally owned and operated.
Where, in any specific case, different sections of this code specify different
materials, methods of construction or other requirements, the most restrictive
shall govern. Where there is a conflict between a general requirement and a
specific requirement, the specific requirement shall be applicable.
In the event any differences in requirements exist between the accessibility
requirements of this code and the accessibility requirements of the California
code of regulations, title 24 (also referred to as the California building
standards code), then the California code of regulations shall govern.
106.1 Plan Check Requirements. When required by the building official to verify
compliance with this code, relevant laws, ordinances, rules and regulations;
plans and, when deemed necessary by the building official, calculations, and
other required data shall be submitted for plan review. The building official
may require plans and calculations to be prepared by an engineer registered by
the state to practice as such. Only after the plans have been approved may the
applicant apply for an electrical permit for such work. The building official
may also require such plans be reviewed by other departments and/or divisions
of the city to verify compliance with the laws and ordinances under their
jurisdiction.
Separate electrical code plan review is required for any of the following:
1 - To verify compliance with state energy requirements when such information
is not shown completely on the building plans;
2 - Any installation of any equipment rated at 400 amperes or larger;
3 - Any installation of a subpanel, switchboard or motor control center having
a rating of 400 amperes or larger;
4 - Any installation of a motor rated more than 10 hp;
5 - Any installation of a transformer, generator, uninteruptable power supply
(UPS), phase converter, capacitor, rectifier or other separately derived
system;
6 - Any installation of a storage batteries;
7 - Any installation of equipment rated above 600V;
8 - All motion picture theaters;
9 - Assembly rooms having an occupant load exceeding 500 occupants;
10 - All gas stations, repair garages and similar locations classified as
hazardous in chapter 5 of this code;
11 - Spray booths;
12 - Installation of lighting fixtures weighing more than 300 pounds;
13 - Installation of any illuminated sign.
14 - Any installation in a building of type I-A, type II-A, type III-A, type IV
or type V-A fire-resistive construction where penetrations are required of
fire-resistive walls, floors or ceilings.
Plans, calculations, reports or documents for work regulated by this code,
relevant laws, ordinances, rules and regulations shall bear the seal, signature
and number of an electrical engineer when required by the California Business
And Professions Code. A seal and number shall not be required for work
authorized by the said article to be performed by a person not registered or
certified as an engineer or architect.
106.3 Information Required On Electrical Plans. Plans shall be drawn to scale
upon substantial paper or other material suitable to the building official,
shall be of sufficient clarity to indicate the nature and scope of the work
proposed, and shall show in detail that the proposed construction will conform
to the provisions of this code and all relevant laws, ordinances, rules and
regulations.
The first sheet of each set of plans shall give the street address of the
proposed work and the name, address and telephone number of the owner and all
persons who were involved in the design and preparation of the plans.
Where the scope of the proposed work involves the following, unless otherwise
approved by the building official, the electrical plans shall indicate the
following:
      (1)   A complete floor plan showing the location of the proposed service
and all proposed subpanels, switchboards, panelboards and/or motor control
centers. All required working space dimensions shall also be indicated where
required by the building official;
      (2)   A complete plan showing the layout, conductor size and insulation
type for all proposed electric wiring in all parts of the building or
structure;
      (3)   A legend of all symbols used and a list of all abbreviations used;
      (4)   A complete single line diagram with complete system grounding,
water pipe bonding and other metal pipe bonding as required by the building
official;
      (5)   The location of all proposed outlet boxes for switches, lights,
receptacles and similar devices in all parts of the building or structure;
      (6)   The location, voltage and wattage or ampere rating for each
noninductive piece of equipment;
      (7)   The location, voltage and wattage or ampere rating for each
transformer, capacitor, ballast, converter, frequency changer and/or similar
equipment;
      (8)   The location, voltage and horsepower rating for all motors,
generators and similar equipment;
      (9)   The horsepower rating for all disconnects protecting more than one
motor or protecting any piece of HVAC equipment containing more than one motor;
      (10)   Panel schedules for all proposed subpanels and similar equipment;
      (11)   Lighting fixture schedule;
      (12)   Any other information requested by the building official.
Plans for buildings more than two stories in height of other than group R-3 and
group U occupancies shall indicate how required fire-resistive integrity will
be maintained where a penetration will be made for electrical and communication
conduits, pipes and similar systems.
When deemed necessary by the building official, the first sheet of each set of
plans shall indicate the building type of construction as defined in the city
building code and the electrical code in effect on the date of plan check
submittal.
107.1 Electrical Permit Required. No person shall erect, alter, install,
repair, move, improve, remove, connect or convert, or cause the same to be
done, any electrical equipment without first obtaining an electrical permit
from the building official.
The issuance of a permit without first requiring a plan review shall not
prevent the building official from requesting plans deemed necessary to verify
that the work performed under said permit complies with this code and all
relevant laws, ordinances, rules and regulations.
107.2 Work Exempted From Electrical Permit. An electrical permit shall not be
required for the following:
      (1)   Minor repair work such as the replacement of lamps, switches,
receptacle devices and sockets which were previously permitted and inspected
under a valid electrical permit;
      (2)   Connection of portable generators, portable motors, appliances,
tools, power outlets and other portable equipment connected by means of a cord
or cable having an attachment plug to a permanently installed receptacle which
was previously permitted and inspected under a valid electrical permit;
      (3)   Repair or replacement of overcurrent devices;
      (4)   The wiring for temporary theater, motion picture or television
stage sets;
      (5)   The repair or replacement of ground, slab, floor or roof mounted
fixed motors or appliances of the same type and rating in the same location and
which were previously permitted and inspected under a valid electrical permit.
Note: Suspended or wall mounted equipment may be exempted from electrical
permit requirements only after documentation has been submitted to and reviewed
by the building official for adequate seismic anchorage. Separate building
permit(s) may be required;
      (6)   That portion of electrical wiring, devices, appliances, apparatus,
or equipment operating at less than 25 volts and not capable of supplying more
than 50 watts of energy;
      (7)   That portion of telephone, intercom, sound, alarm, control,
communication and/or signal wiring that is not an integral part of an
appliance, and which operates at 30 volts or less. Note: Separate permit may be
required from the fire department;
      (8)   Temporary decorative lighting which is not installed for more than
90 days;
      (9)   The installation of temporary wiring for testing or experimental
purposes within suitable facilities specifically approved by the building
official for such use.
Exemption from the permit requirements of this code shall not be deemed to
grant authorization for any work to be done in any manner in violation of the
provisions of other laws or ordinances.
(Ord. 16-1020)
7-3-1: LOS ANGELES COUNTY CODE, TITLE 27, ELECTRICAL CODE, ADOPTED:
Los Angeles County Electrical Code Article 90, Chapter 1 through 9, and Annexes
A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I and J, Title 27, The 2022 Los Angeles County
Electrical Code, as amended and in effect on or before January 1, 2023,
adopting the 2022 California Electrical Code, except as otherwise provided in
said Title 27, is hereby adopted by reference pursuant to the provisions of
Sections 50022.1 through 50022.10 of the Government Code of the State of
California as though fully set forth herein, and made a part of the Temple City
Municipal Code with the same force and effect as though set out herein in full,
including all of the regulations, revisions, conditions and terms contained
therein.
Not less than one copy of said Title 27 of the Los Angeles County Electrical
Code together with any and all amendments thereto proposed by the City of
Temple City, has been and is now filed in the office of the Building and Safety
Division and shall be remain on file with Building Official, and shall
collectively be known as the City of Temple City Electrical Code and may be
cited as Title 7 Chapter 3 of the City of Temple City Municipal Code. (Ord. 16-
1020; amd. Ord. 16-1037; Ord. 22-1066)
7-3-2: EFFECT OF ADOPTION:
The adoption of this Code and the repeal, addition or amendment of ordinances
by this code shall not affect the following matters:
   A.   Actions and proceedings which began the effective date of this code.
   B.   Prosecution for ordinance violations committed before the effective
date of this code.
   C.   Licenses and penalties due and unpaid at the effective date of this
code, and the collection of these licenses and penalties.
   D.   Bonds and cash deposits required to be posted, filed or deposited
pursuant to any ordinance.
   E.   Matters of record which refer to or are connected with ordinances the
substances of which are included in this code; these references shall be
construed to apply to the corresponding provisions of the code. (Ord. 16-1020;
amd. Ord. 16-1037; Ord. 22-1066)
7-3-3: PENALTY; VIOLATIONS:
   A.   General Penalty; Continuing Violations: Every act prohibited or
declared unlawful and every failure to perform an act required by this code is
a misdemeanor or an infraction as set forth in the said respective pertinent
sections of this code and any person causing or permitting a violation of any
such section of said code shall be subject to the penalties ascribed to each
such section as set forth herein. Where silent, as to whether a violation is a
misdemeanor or infraction, the City Attorney may prosecute such violation as
either a misdemeanor or infraction in his/her discretion.
   B.   Violations Including Aiding, Abetting, And Concealing: Every person who
causes, aids, abets or conceals the fact of a violation of this code is guilty
of violating this code.
   C.   Enforcement By Civil Action: In addition to the penalties provided
herein, the said code may be enforced by civil action. Any condition existing
in violation of this code is a public nuisance and may be summarily abated by
the city. (Ord. 16-1020; amd. Ord. 16-1037; Ord. 22-1066)
CHAPTER 4
PLUMBING CODE
SECTION:
7-4-0: Plumbing Code Administration
7-4-1: Los Angeles County Code, Title 28, Plumbing Code, Adopted
7-4-2: Effect Of Adoption
7-4-3: Penalty; Violations
7-4-0: PLUMBING CODE ADMINISTRATION:
Except as hereinafter changed or modified, the administration of the plumbing
code shall be as set forth in section
7-1-0, "Building Code Administration", of this title.
101 Title, Purpose, Intent And Scope
101.1 Title. Title 7 Building Regulations, chapter 4 of the city of Temple City
municipal code shall be known as the Plumbing Code Of The City Of Temple City,
may be cited as such, and will be referred to herein as "these regulations" or
"these building standards" or "this code."
101.3 Scope. The provisions of this code shall apply to the erection,
alteration, installation, repair, movement, improvement, removal, connection or
conversion of any plumbing equipment and/or appliances or any other plumbing
work regulated by this code within the city.
Where, in any specific case, different sections of this code specify different
materials, methods of construction or other requirements, the most restrictive
shall govern. Where there is a conflict between a general requirement and a
specific requirement, the specific requirement shall be applicable.
In the event any differences in requirements exist between the accessibility
requirements of this code and the accessibility requirements of the California
code of regulations, title 24 (also referred to as the California building
standards code), then the California code of regulations shall govern.
Where the requirements of this code conflict with the requirements of
mechanical code, this code shall prevail.
106.1 Plan Check Requirements. When required by the building official to verify
compliance with this code, relevant laws, ordinances, rules and regulations;
plans and, when deemed necessary by the building official, calculations, and
other required data shall be submitted for plan review. The building official
may require plans and calculations to be prepared by an engineer registered by
the state to practice as such. Only after the plans have been approved may the
applicant apply for a plumbing permit for such work. The building official may
also require such plans be reviewed by other departments and/or divisions of
the city to verify compliance with the laws and ordinances under their
jurisdiction.
Separate plumbing code plan review is required for any of the following:
(a) For any restaurant which requires a grease trap or a grease interceptor;
(b) Any facility which requires a sand/grease clarifier;
(c) Plumbing systems with more than 216 waste fixture units;
(d) Potable water supply piping required to be 2" or larger;
(e) Fuel gas piping required to be 2" or larger;
(f) Fuel gas piping containing medium- or high-pressure gas;
(g) Combination waste and vent systems;
(h) Plumbing fixtures located below the next upstream manhole or below the
sewer main;
(i) Chemical waste systems;
(j) Rainwater system employing a sump pump;
(k) Grey water systems;
(l) Any type of sewer ejection system or lift station;
(m) Any installation in a building of type I-A, type II-A, type III-A, type IV
or type V-A fire-resistive construction where penetrations are required of
fire-resistive walls, floors or ceilings.
Plans, calculations, reports or documents for work regulated by this code,
relevant laws, ordinances, rules and regulations shall bear the seal, signature
and number of a plumbing engineer when required by the California Business And
Professions Code. A seal and number shall not be required for work authorized
by the said article to be performed by a person not registered or certified as
an engineer or architect.
106.3 Information Required On Plumbing Plans. Plans shall be drawn to scale
upon substantial paper or other material suitable to the building official,
shall be of sufficient clarity to indicate the nature and scope of the work
proposed, and shall show in detail that the proposed construction will conform
to the provisions of this code and all relevant laws, ordinances, rules and
regulations.
The first sheet of each set of plans shall give the street address of the
proposed work and the name, address and telephone number of the owner and all
persons who were involved in the design and preparation of the plans.
Where the scope of the proposed work involves the following, unless otherwise
approved by the building official, the plumbing plans shall indicate the
following:
(a) A complete floor plan showing the location of all proposed plumbing
fixtures;
(b) A complete plan showing the layout, diameter and material of all proposed
piping;
(c) A legend of all symbols used and a list of all abbreviations used;
(d) Any other information requested by the building official.
Plans for buildings more than two stories in height of other than group R-3 and
group U occupancies shall indicate how required fire-resistive integrity will
be maintained where a penetration will be made for plumbing piping and similar
systems.
When deemed necessary by the building official, the first sheet of each set of
plans shall indicate the building type of construction as defined in the
building code and the plumbing code in effect on the date of plan check
submittal.
107.1 Plumbing Permit Required. No person shall erect, alter, install, repair,
move, improve, remove, connect or convert, or cause the same to be done, to any
plumbing equipment or fixtures without first obtaining a plumbing permit from
the building official. A plumbing permit is required for any installation,
alteration, reconstruction or repair of any plumbing (including fixtures,
traps, tailpieces and valves), drainage piping, vent piping, waste piping, soil
piping, water piping (potable or nonpotable but which is connected to a potable
water source) or gas piping located within or on any building, structure or
premises.
107.2 Work Exempted From Plumbing Permit. A plumbing permit shall not be
required for the following:
(a) Clearing of stoppages and stopping of leaks which do not involve the
replacement of any plumbing (including fixtures, traps, tailpieces and valves),
drainage piping, vent piping, waste piping, soil piping, water piping or gas
piping.
(b) Change of residential plumbing fixtures which do not involve the
replacement of the existing waste and vent piping excluding the trap, to
include, residential toilets, residential bathroom hand sinks, bathtub and
residential kitchen sinks.
(c) Connection of any appliance approved for and intended to be connected by
flexible gas piping to a gas shutoff valve which was previously permitted and
inspected under a valid plumbing permit.
Exemption from the permit requirements of this code shall not be deemed to
grant authorization for any work to be done in any manner in violation of the
provisions of other laws or ordinances.
The issuance of a permit without first requiring a plan review shall not
prevent the building official from requesting plans deemed necessary to verify
that the work performed under said permit complies with this code and all
relevant laws, ordinances, rules and regulations.
(Ord. 16-1020)
7-4-1: LOS ANGELES COUNTY CODE, TITLE 28, PLUMBING CODE, ADOPTED:
Los Angeles County Plumbing Code Chapter 2 through Chapter 17, and Appendices
A, B, D, H, I and J, Title 28, the 2023 Los Angeles County Plumbing Code, as
amended and in effect on or before January 1, 2023, adopting the 2022
California Plumbing Code, is hereby adopted by reference pursuant to the
provisions of Sections 50022.1 through 50022.10 of the Government Code of the
State of California as though fully set forth herein, and made a part of the
Temple City Municipal Code with the same force and effect as though set out
herein in full, including all of the regulations, revisions, conditions and
terms contained therein.
Not less than one copy of said Title 28 of the Los Angeles County Plumbing Code
together with any and all amendments thereto proposed by the City of Temple
City, has been and is now filed in the office of the Building and Safety
Division and shall be remain on file with Building Official, and shall
collectively be known as the City of Temple City Plumbing Code and may be cited
as Title 7 Chapter 4 of the City of Temple City Municipal Code. (Ord. 16-1020;
amd. Ord. 16-1037; Ord. 22-1066)
7-4-2: EFFECT OF ADOPTION:
The adoption of this code and the repeal, addition or amendment of ordinances
by this code shall not affect the following matters:
   A.   Actions and proceedings which began the effective date of this code.
   B.   Prosecution for ordinance violations committed before the effective
date of this code.
   C.   Licenses and penalties due and unpaid at the effective date of this
code, and the collection of these licenses and penalties.
   D.   Bonds and cash deposits required to be posted, filed or deposited
pursuant to any ordinance.
   E.   Matters of record which refer to or are connected with ordinances the
substances of which are included in this code; these references shall be
construed to apply to the corresponding provisions of the code. (Ord. 16-1020;
amd. Ord. 16-1037; Ord. 22-1066)
7-4-3: PENALTY; VIOLATIONS:
   A.   General Penalty; Continuing Violations: Every act prohibited or
declared unlawful and every failure to perform an act required by this code is
a misdemeanor or an infraction as set forth in the said respective pertinent
sections of this code and any person causing or permitting a violation of any
such section of said code shall be subject to the penalties ascribed to each
such section as set forth herein. Where silent, as to whether a violation is a
misdemeanor or infraction, the City Attorney may prosecute such violation as
either a misdemeanor or infraction in his/her discretion.
   B.   Violations Including Aiding, Abetting, And Concealing: Every person who
causes, aids, abets or conceals the fact of a violation of this code is guilty
of violating this code.
   C.   Enforcement By Civil Action: In addition to the penalties provided
herein, the said code may be enforced by civil action. Any condition existing
in violation of this code is a public nuisance and may be summarily abated by
the city. (Ord. 16-1020; amd. Ord. 16-1037; Ord. 22-1066)
CHAPTER 5
RESIDENTIAL CODE
SECTION:
7-5-0: Residential Code Administration
7-5-1: Los Angeles County Code, Title 30, Residential Code, Adopted
7-5-2: Effect Of Adoption
7-5-3: Penalty; Violations
7-5-0: RESIDENTIAL CODE ADMINISTRATION:
Except as hereinafter changed or modified, the administration of the
residential code shall be as set forth in section
7-1-0, "Building Code Administration", of this title.
101 Title, Purpose, Intent And Scope
101.1 Title. Title 7 Building Regulations, chapter 5 of the city of Temple City
municipal code shall be known as the Residential Code Of The City Of Temple
City, may be cited as such, and will be referred to herein as "these
regulations" or "these building standards" or "this code."
(Ord. 16-1020)
7-5-1: LOS ANGELES COUNTY CODE, TITLE 30, RESIDENTIAL CODE, ADOPTED:
Section 1206 (Sound Transmission) of Chapter 12, Chapters 67,69, 96, 98, 99,
and appendix J of Title 26 of the Los Angeles County Code are adopted by
reference as amended by City of Temple City Building Code (
7-1-2 ) and incorporated in to this Section 7-5-1 as if fully set forth below
and shall be known as Section 1206 of Chapter 12, Chapters 67,69, 96, 98, 99,
and appendix J of the City of Temple City Residential Code.
Chapters 2 through 10, 44 and Appendix AH, AQ, AJ, AS of Title 30, Los Angeles
County Residential Code, as amended and in effect on or before January 1, 2023,
adopting the 2022 California Residential Code, is hereby adopted by reference
pursuant to the provisions of Sections 50022.1 through 50022.10 of the
Government Code of the State of California as though fully set forth herein,
and made a part of the Temple City Municipal Code with the same force and
effect as though set out herein in full, including all of the regulations,
revisions, conditions and terms contained therein.
Not less than one copy of said Title 30 of the Los Angeles County Residential
Code together with any and all amendments thereto proposed by the City of
Temple City, has been and is now filed in the office of the Building and Safety
Division and shall be remain on file with Building Official, and shall
collectively be known as the City of Temple City Residential Code and may be
cited as Title 7 Chapter 5 of the City of Temple City Municipal Code. (Ord. 16-
1020; amd. Ord. 16-1037; Ord. 22-1066)
7-5-2: EFFECT OF ADOPTION:
The adoption of this Code and the repeal, addition or amendment of ordinances
by this code shall not affect the following matters:
   A.   Actions and proceedings which began the effective date of this code.
   B.   Prosecution for ordinance violations committed before the effective
date of this code.
   C.   Licenses and penalties due and unpaid at the effective date of this
code, and the collection of these licenses and penalties.
   D.   Bonds and cash deposits required to be posted, filed or deposited
pursuant to any ordinance.
   E.   Matters of record which refer to or are connected with ordinances the
substances of which are included in this code; these references shall be
construed to apply to the corresponding provisions of the code. (Ord. 16-1020;
amd. Ord. 16-1037; Ord. 22-1066)
7-5-3: PENALTY; VIOLATIONS:
   A.   General Penalty; Continuing Violations: Every act prohibited or
declared unlawful and every failure to perform an act required by this code is
a misdemeanor or an infraction as set forth in the said respective pertinent
sections of this code and any person causing or permitting a violation of any
such section of said code shall be subject to the penalties ascribed to each
such section as set forth herein. Where silent, as to whether a violation is a
misdemeanor or infraction, the City Attorney may prosecute such violation as
either a misdemeanor or infraction in his/her discretion.
   B.   Violations Including Aiding, Abetting, And Concealing: Every person who
causes, aids, abets or conceals the fact of a violation of this code is guilty
of violating this code.
   C.   Enforcement By Civil Action: In addition to the penalties provided
herein, the said code may be enforced by civil action. Any condition existing
in violation of this code is a public nuisance and may be summarily abated by
the city. (Ord. 16-1020; amd. Ord. 16-1037; Ord. 22-1066)
CHAPTER 6
GREEN BUILDING STANDARDS CODE
SECTION:
7-6-0: Green Building Standards Code Administration
7-6-1: California Green Building Standards Code Adopted
7-6-2: Effect Of Adoption
7-6-3: Penalty; Violations
7-6-0: GREEN BUILDING STANDARDS CODE ADMINISTRATION:
Except as hereinafter changed or modified, the administration of the green
building standards code shall be as set forth in section
7-1-0, "Building Code Administration", of this title.
101.1 Title. Title 7 Building Regulations, chapter 6 of the city of Temple City
municipal code shall be known as the Green Building Standards Code Of The City
Of Temple City, may be cited as such, and will be referred to herein as "these
regulations" or "these building standards" or "this code."
(Ord. 16-1020)
7-6-1: CALIFORNIA GREEN BUILDING STANDARDS CODE ADOPTED:
Chapters 2 through 8, Appendix A4, and Appendix A5 of 2022 California Green
Building Standards Code, California Code of Regulations Title 24 Part 11, as
published by the California Building Standards Commission, is hereby adopted by
reference pursuant to the provisions of Sections 50022.1 through 50022.10 of
the Government Code of the State of California as though fully set forth
herein, and made a part of the Temple City Municipal Code with the same force
and effect as though set out herein in full, including all of the regulations,
revisions, conditions and terms contained therein.
In accordance with Section 50022.6 of the California Government Code, not less
than one copy of said 2022 California Green Building Standards Code, California
Code of Regulations Title 24 Part 11 together with any and all amendments
thereto proposed by the City of Temple City, has been and is now filed in the
office of the Building and Safety Division, shall be remain on file with the
Building Official, shall collectively be known as the City of Temple City Green
Building Standards Code and may be cited as Title 7 Chapter 6 of the City of
Temple City Municipal Code. (Ord. 16-1020; amd. Ord. 16-1037; Ord. 22-1066)
7-6-2: EFFECT OF ADOPTION:
The adoption of this Code and the repeal, addition or amendment of ordinances
by this code shall not affect the following matters:
   A.   Actions and proceedings which began the effective date of this code.
   B.   Prosecution for ordinance violations committed before the effective
date of this code.
   C.   Licenses and penalties due and unpaid at the effective date of this
code, and the collection of these licenses and penalties.
   D.   Bonds and cash deposits required to be posted, filed or deposited
pursuant to any ordinance.
   E.   Matters of record which refer to or are connected with ordinances the
substances of which are included in this code; these references shall be
construed to apply to the corresponding provisions of the code. (Ord. 16-1020;
amd. Ord. 16-1037; Ord. 22-1066)
7-6-3: PENALTY; VIOLATIONS:
   A.   General Penalty; Continuing Violations: Every act prohibited or
declared unlawful and every failure to perform an act required by this code is
a misdemeanor or an infraction as set forth in the said respective pertinent
sections of this code and any person causing or permitting a violation of any
such section of said code shall be subject to the penalties ascribed to each
such section as set forth herein. Where silent, as to whether a violation is a
misdemeanor or infraction, the City Attorney may prosecute such violation as
either a misdemeanor or infraction in his/her discretion.
   B.   Violations Including Aiding, Abetting, And Concealing: Every person who
causes, aids, abets or conceals the fact of a violation of this code is guilty
of violating this code.
   C.   Enforcement By Civil Action: In addition to the penalties provided
herein, the said code may be enforced by civil action. Any condition existing
in violation of this code is a public nuisance and may be summarily abated by
the city. (Ord. 16-1020; amd. Ord. 16-1037; Ord. 22-1066)
CHAPTER 7
SWIMMING POOL AND SPA CODE
SECTION:
7-7-0: Swimming Pool And Spa Code Administration
7-7-1: International Swimming Pool And Spa Code Adopted
7-7-2: International Swimming Pool And Spa Code Modified
7-7-3: Effect Of Adoption
7-7-4: Penalty; Violations
7-7-0: SWIMMING POOL AND SPA CODE ADMINISTRATION:
Except as hereinafter changed or modified, the administration of the swimming
pool and spa code shall be as set forth in section 7-1-0, "Building Code
Administration", of this title.
   101.1 Title. Title 7 Building Regulations, chapter 7 of the city of Temple
City municipal code shall be known as the Swimming Pool and Spa Code Of The
City Of Temple City, may be cited as such, and will be referred to herein as
"these regulations" or "these building standards" or "this code." (Ord. 19-
1037)
7-7-1: INTERNATIONAL SWIMMING POOL AND SPA CODE ADOPTED:
2018 International Swimming Pool and Spa Code as published by International
Code Council is hereby adopted by reference pursuant to the provisions of
sections 50022.1 through 50022.10 of the Government Code of the State of
California as though fully set forth herein, and made a part of the Temple City
Municipal Code with the same force and effect as though set out herein in full,
including all of the regulations, revisions, conditions and terms contained
therein.
Not less than one (1) copy of said International Swimming Pool and Spa Code
together with any and all amendments thereto proposed by the City of Temple
City, has been and is now filed in the office of the building and safety
division and shall be remain on file with building official, and shall
collectively be known as the City of Temple City Swimming Pool and Spa Code and
may be cited as Title 7 Chapter 7 of the City of Temple City Municipal Code.
(Ord. 19-1037)
7-7-2: INTERNATIONAL SWIMMING POOL AND SPA CODE MODIFIED:
Chapters 1 and 2 of the International Swimming Pool and Spa Code, adopted by
reference as the Swimming Pool and Spa Code of the City of Temple City, are
hereby amended, deleted or added as follows:
A.   Chapter 1 is deleted in its entirety
B.   Chapter 2 the following definitions added to read:
   In addition to the definitions specified in Chapter 2 Section 202 of this
Code, the following certain terms, phrases, words and their derivatives shall
be construed as specified in this section.
   1.   Where the term International Building Code is used it shall be replaced
with the term California Building Code as adopted by reference and amended by
City of Temple City.
   2.   Where the term International Residential Code is used it shall be
replaced with the term California Residential Code as adopted by reference and
amended by City of Temple City.
   3.   Where the term International Plumbing Code is used it shall be replaced
with the term California Plumbing Code as adopted by reference and amended by
City of Temple City.
   4.   Where the term International Energy Conservation Code is used it shall
be replaced with the term California Energy Code.
   5.   Where the term International Fire Code is used it shall be replaced
with the term California Fire Code as adopted by reference and amended by City
of Temple City.
   6.   Where the term International Fuel Gas Code is used it shall be replaced
with the term California Plumbing Code as adopted by reference and amended by
City of Temple City.
   7.   Where the term International Mechanical Code is used it shall be
replaced with the term California Mechanical Code as adopted by reference and
amended by City of Temple City
   8.   Where the term NFPA 70 is used it shall be replaced with the term
California Electrical Code as adopted by reference and amended by City of
Temple City. (Ord. 19-1037)
7-7-3: EFFECT OF ADOPTION:
The adoption of this Code and the repeal, addition or amendment of ordinances
by this code shall not affect the following matters:
A.   Actions and proceedings which began the effective date of this code.
B.   Prosecution for ordinance violations committed before the effective date
of this code.
C.   Licenses and penalties due and unpaid at the effective date of this code,
and the collection of these licenses and penalties.
D.   Bonds and cash deposits required to be posted, filed or deposited pursuant
to any ordinance.
E.   Matters of record which refer to or are connected with ordinances the
substances of which are included in this code; these references shall be
construed to apply to the corresponding provisions of the code. (Ord. 19-1037)
7-7-4: PENALTY; VIOLATIONS:
A.   General Penalty; Continuing Violations: Every act prohibited or declared
unlawful and every failure to perform an act required by this code is a
misdemeanor or an infraction as set forth in the said respective pertinent
sections of this code and any person causing or permitting a violation of any
such section of said code shall be subject to the penalties ascribed to each
such section as set forth herein. Where silent, as to whether a violation is a
misdemeanor or infraction, the city attorney may prosecute such violation as
either a misdemeanor or infraction in his/her discretion.
B.   Violations Including Aiding, Abetting, and Concealing: Every person who
causes, aids, abets or conceals the fact of a violation of this code is guilty
of violating this code.
C.   Enforcement By Civil Action: In addition to the penalties provided herein,
the said code may be enforced by civil action. Any condition existing in
violation of this code is a public nuisance and may be summarily abated by the
city. (Ord. 19-1037)
CHAPTER 8
SMALL RESIDENTIAL ROOFTOP SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS
SECTION:
7-8-0: Intent And Purpose
7-8-1: Applicability
7-8-2: Definitions
7-8-3: Duties Of Building Division And Building Official
7-8-4: Permit Review And Inspection Requirements
7-8-0: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to establish an expedited, streamlined solar
permitting process that complies with Civil Code section 714 and Government
Code section 65850.5 to achieve timely and cost effective installations of
small residential rooftop solar energy systems. This chapter encourages the use
of solar energy systems by removing unreasonable barriers, minimizing costs to
property owners and the city, and expanding the ability of property owners to
install solar energy systems. This chapter allows the city to achieve these
goals while protecting the public health and safety. (Ord. 15-1005)
7-8-1: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   This chapter applies to the permitting of all small residential rooftop
solar energy systems.
   B.   Small residential rooftop solar energy systems legally established or
permitted prior to the effective date of this chapter are not subject to the
requirements of this chapter unless physical modifications or alterations are
undertaken that materially change the size, type, or components of the small
residential rooftop solar energy system in such a way as to require new
permitting. Routine operation and maintenance shall not require a permit. (Ord.
15-1005)
7-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
The words and phrases used in this chapter are defined as follows:
   FEASIBLE METHOD TO SATISFACTORILY MITIGATE OR AVOID THE ADVERSE IMPACT:
Includes, but is not limited to, any cost effective method, condition, or
mitigation imposed by the city on another similarly situated application in a
prior successful application for a permit. The city shall use its best efforts
to ensure that the selected method, condition, or mitigation meets the
conditions of Civil Code section 714(d)(1)(A)-(B).
   SMALL RESIDENTIAL ROOFTOP SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM: A solar energy system that is
all of the following:
   A.   A solar energy system that is no larger than ten (10) kilowatts
alternating current nameplate rating or thirty (30) kilowatts thermal;
   B.   A solar energy system that conforms to all applicable state fire,
structural, electrical, and other building codes as adopted or amended by the
city and all state and city health and safety standards;
   C.   A solar energy system that is installed on a single or duplex family
dwelling; and
   D.   A solar panel or module array that does not exceed the maximum legal
building height as defined by the city.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM: Has the same meaning set forth in Civil Code sections
801.5(a)(1) and 801.5(a)(2).
   SPECIFIC, ADVERSE IMPACT: A significant, quantifiable, direct, and
unavoidable impact, based on objective, identified, and written public health
or safety standards, policies, or conditions as they existed on the date the
application was deemed complete. (Ord. 15-1005)
7-8-3: DUTIES OF BUILDING DIVISION AND BUILDING OFFICIAL:
   A.   All documents required for the submission of an expedited small
residential rooftop solar energy system application shall be made available on
the city's website.
   B.   Applications for small residential rooftop solar energy system permits,
and any supporting documents, may be submitted in person, mailed, or submitted
electronically by e-mail, facsimile, or the internet.
   C.   An applicant's electronic signature shall be accepted on all forms,
applications, and other documents in lieu of a wet signature.
   D.   The building division shall prepare a checklist of all requirements
with which small residential rooftop solar energy systems shall comply to be
eligible for expedited review.
   E.   The small residential rooftop solar energy system permit process, and
checklist(s) shall substantially conform to recommendations for expedited
permitting, including the checklist and standard plans contained in the most
current version of the "California Solar Permitting Guidebook" adopted by the
governor's office of planning and research.
   F.   All plan review and permit fees shall be as adopted by city council
resolution or ordinance. Any such fees must comply with Government Code
sections 65850.55 and 66015, and any other applicable state laws. (Ord. 15-
1005)
7-8-4: PERMIT REVIEW AND INSPECTION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Prior to submitting an application for a small residential rooftop
solar energy system, the applicant shall:
      1.   Verify to the applicant's reasonable satisfaction through the use of
standard engineering evaluation techniques that the support structure for the
small residential rooftop solar energy system is stable and adequate to
transfer all wind, seismic, and dead and live loads associated with the system
to the building foundation; and
      2.   At the applicant's cost, verify to the applicant's reasonable
satisfaction using standard electrical inspection techniques that the existing
electrical system including existing line, load, ground and bonding wiring as
well as main panel and subpanel sizes are adequately sized, based on the
existing electrical system's current use, to carry all new photovoltaic
electrical loads.
   B.   An application that satisfies the requirements of the application
checklist prepared by the building division pursuant to subsection
7-8-3D of this chapter, as determined by the building official, shall be deemed
complete. Upon receipt of an incomplete application, the building official
shall issue a written correction notice detailing all deficiencies in the
application and any additional information required to be eligible for
expedited permit issuance.
   C.   Upon the determination by the building official that the application is
complete, the building official shall approve the application and issue all
required permits or authorizations.
      1.   The city shall not condition approval of an application on the
approval of an association, as defined in Civil Code section 4080.
      2.   Such approval does not authorize an applicant to connect the small
residential rooftop solar energy system to the local utility provider's
electricity grid. The applicant is responsible for obtaining such approval or
permission from the local utility provider.
   D.   If the building official finds, based on substantial evidence, that the
small residential rooftop solar energy system could have a specific, adverse
impact upon the public health and safety, the building official shall require
the applicant to apply for a use permit.
      1.   If a use permit is required, the building official may not deny the
application for the use permit unless the building official makes written
findings based upon substantive evidence in the record that the proposed
installation would have a specific, adverse impact upon public health or safety
and there is no feasible method to satisfactorily mitigate or avoid the adverse
impact. Such findings shall include the basis for the rejection of the
potential feasible alternative for preventing the adverse impact.
      2.   Any condition imposed on a use permit shall be designed to mitigate
the specific, adverse impact upon health and safety at the lowest possible
cost.
      3.   The applicant may appeal to the planning commission a decision by
the building official to require a use permit, or a decision to deny a use
permit.
   E.   Only one inspection shall be required for a small residential rooftop
solar energy system eligible for expedited review, which shall be performed in
a timely manner. If a small residential rooftop solar energy system fails
inspection, a subsequent inspection is authorized but need not conform to the
requirements of this section. (Ord. 15-1005)
CHAPTER 9
EXISTING BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
7-9-0: Existing Building Code Administration
7-9-1: Los Angeles County Code, Title 33, Existing Building Code, Adopted
7-9-2: Effect Of Adoption
7-9-3: Penalty; Violations
7-9-0: EXISTING BUILDING CODE ADMINISTRATION:
Except as hereinafter changed or modified, the administration of the existing
building code shall be as set forth in section
7-1-0, "Building Code Administration", of this title.
101 Title, Purpose, Intent And Scope
101.1 Title. Title 7 Building Regulations, chapter 9 of the city of Temple City
municipal code shall be known as the Existing Building Code Of The City Of
Temple City, may be cited as such, and will be referred to herein as "these
regulations" or "these building standards" or "this code."
101.3 Scope. The provisions of this code shall apply to the repair, alteration,
change of occupancy, addition to and relocation of any existing building or
structure or any other work regulated by this code within the city, subject to
the criteria of sections 101.3.1 and 101.3.2.
Where, in any specific case, different sections of this code specify different
materials, methods of construction or other requirements, the most restrictive
shall govern. Where there is a conflict between a general requirement and a
specific requirement, the specific requirement shall be applicable.
In the event any differences in requirements exist between the accessibility
requirements of this code and the accessibility requirements of the California
code of regulations, title 24 (also referred to as the California building
standards code), then the California code of regulations shall govern.
101.3.1 Buildings Not Previously Occupied. A building or portion of a building
that has not been previously occupied or used for its intended purpose in
accordance with the laws in existence at the time of its completion shall be
permitted to comply with the provisions of the laws in existence at the time of
its original permit unless such permit has expired. Subsequent permits shall
comply with the building code or residential code, as applicable, for new
construction.
101.3.2 Buildings Previously Occupied. The legal occupancy of any building
existing on the date of adoption of this code shall be permitted to continue
without change, except as is specifically covered in this code, the fire code,
or as is deemed necessary by the building official for the general safety and
welfare of the occupants and the public.
(Ord. 16-1020)
7-9-1: LOS ANGELES COUNTY CODE, TITLE 33, EXISTING BUILDING CODE, ADOPTED:
Los Angeles County Existing Building Code Chapter 2 through 4, 15, 16 and
Appendix A, Chapter A1, A3, A4 and A5 of the Title 33, the 2023 Los Angeles
County Existing Building Code, as amended and in effect on or before January 1,
2023, adopting the 2022 California Existing Building Code, is hereby adopted by
reference pursuant to the provisions of Sections 50022.1 through 50022.10 of
the Government Code of the State of California as though fully set forth
herein, and made a part of the Temple City Municipal Code with the same force
and effect as though set out herein in full, including all of the regulations,
revisions, conditions and terms contained therein.
Not less than one copy of said Title 33 of the Los Angeles County Existing
Building Code together with any and all amendments thereto proposed by the City
of Temple City, has been and is now filed in the office of the Building and
Safety Division and shall be remain on file with Building Official, and shall
collectively be known as the City of Temple City Existing Building Code and may
be cited as Title 7 Chapter 6 of the City of Temple City Municipal Code. (Ord.
16-1020; amd. Ord. 19-1037; Ord. 22-1066)
7-9-2: EFFECT OF ADOPTION:
The adoption of this Code and the repeal, addition or amendment of ordinances
by this code shall not affect the following matters:
   A.   Actions and proceedings which began the effective date of this code.
   B.   Prosecution for ordinance violations committed before the effective
date of this code.
   C.   Licenses and penalties due and unpaid at the effective date of this
code, and the collection of these licenses and penalties.
   D.   Bonds and cash deposits required to be posted, filed or deposited
pursuant to any ordinance.
   E.   Matters of record which refer to or are connected with ordinances the
substances of which are included in this code; these references shall be
construed to apply to the corresponding provisions of the code. (Ord. 16-1020;
amd. Ord. 19-1037; Ord. 22-1066)
7-9-3: PENALTY; VIOLATIONS:
   A.   General Penalty; Continuing Violations: Every act prohibited or
declared unlawful and every failure to perform an act required by this code is
a misdemeanor or an infraction as set forth in the said respective pertinent
sections of this code and any person causing or permitting a violation of any
such section of said code shall be subject to the penalties ascribed to each
such section as set forth herein. Where silent, as to whether a violation is a
misdemeanor or infraction, the City Attorney may prosecute such violation as
either a misdemeanor or infraction in his/her discretion.
   B.   Violations Including Aiding, Abetting, And Concealing: Every person who
causes, aids, abets or conceals the fact of a violation of this code is guilty
of violating this code.
   C.   Enforcement By Civil Action: In addition to the penalties provided
herein, the said code may be enforced by civil action. Any condition existing
in violation of this code is a public nuisance and may be summarily abated by
the city. (Ord. 16-1020; amd. Ord. 19-1037; Ord. 22-1066)
CHAPTER 10
ELECTRIC VEHICLE CHARGING STATIONS PERMITTING
SECTION:
7-10-1:      Intent And Purpose
7-10-2:      Definitions
7-10-3:      Expedited Review Process
7-10-4:      Specific Adverse Impact Finding
7-10-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to establish an expedited, streamlined electric
vehicle charging stations permitting process to achieve timely and cost-
effective installations electric vehicle charging stations, and, to promote and
encourage the use of electric vehicle charging stations and to limit obstacles
to their use.
Electric Vehicle Charging Stations which qualify for expedited permit
processing, pursuant to Government Code Section 65850.7, shall be subject to
the administrative permitting procedures set forth in the City's Electric
Vehicle Charging Station Permit Expediting Ordinance. (Ord. 22-1066)
7-10-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Article, words and terms used in this Article shall
have the meanings set forth in this Section. Where terms are not defined in
this Section and are defined elsewhere in this Code, or the Building Code, such
terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in such codes. The terms,
phrases, and words used in this chapter shall be construed in compliance with
the definitions set forth by California Government Code Section 65850.7. (Ord.
22-1066)
7-10-3: EXPEDITED REVIEW PROCESS:
   A.   Consistent with Government Code Section 65850.7, the Building Official
shall implement an expedited administrative permit review process for electric
vehicle charging stations and a checklist of all requirements with which
electric vehicle charging stations shall comply with in order to be eligible
for expedited review. The expedited administrative permit review process and
checklist may refer to the recommendations in the checklist prescribed by the
most current version of the "Plug-In Electric Vehicle Infrastructure Permitting
Checklist" of the "Zero-Emission Vehicles in California: Community Readiness
Guidebook" published by the Governor's Office of Planning and Research. The
City's checklist shall be published on the City's website.
   B.   Consistent with Government Code Section 65850.7, the Building Official
shall allow for electronic submittal of permit applications covered by this
Ordinance and associated supporting documentation. In accepting such permit
applications, the Building Official shall also accept electronic signatures on
all forms, applications, and other documentation in lieu of a wet signature by
any applicant.
   C.   Consistent with Government Code Section 65850.7, the Building Official
shall not condition the approval for any electric vehicle charging station
permit on the approval of such a system by an association, as that term is
defined by Civil Code Section 4080.
   D.   A permit application that satisfies the information requirements in the
City's checklist shall be deemed complete and be promptly processed. Upon
confirmation by the Building Official that the permit application and
supporting documents meets the requirements of the City checklist, and is
consistent with all applicable laws, the Building Official shall, consistent
with Government Code Section 65850.7, approve the application and issue all
necessary permits. Such approval does not authorize an applicant to energize or
utilize the electric vehicle charging station until approval is granted by the
City. If the Building Official determines that the permit application is
incomplete, he or she shall issue a written correction notice to the applicant,
detailing all deficiencies in the application and any additional information
required to be eligible for expedited permit issuance. (Ord. 22-1066)
7-10-4: SPECIFIC ADVERSE IMPACT FINDING:
It is the intent of this chapter to encourage the installation of electric
vehicle charging stations by removing obstacles to permitting for charging
stations so long as the action does not supersede the Building Official's
authority to address higher priority life-safety situations. If the Building
Official makes a finding based on substantial evidence that the electric
vehicle charging station could have a specific adverse impact upon the public
health or safety, as defined in Government Code 65850.7, the City may require
the applicant to apply for a use permit. (Ord. 22-1066)
TITLE 8
STORMWATER POLLUTANT ELIMINATION
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
8-1-0: Purpose
8-1-1: Definitions
8-1-2: Responsibility For Administration
8-1-3: Regulatory Consistency
8-1-4: Time Limits
8-1-5: Severability
8-1-6: Fees
8-1-0: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to protect the public health, welfare and safety
and to reduce the quantity of pollutants being discharged to the waters of the
United States.
   A.   Objectives:
      1.   Elimination of nonstormwater discharges to the municipal storm sewer
system.
      2.   Elimination of spillage, dumping and disposal of pollutants into the
municipal storm sewer system.
      3.   Reduction of pollutants in stormwater discharges to the maximum
extent practicable.
      4.   To protect and enhance the quality of the waters of the United
States in a manner consistent with the provisions of the federal clean water
act. (Ord. 96-799)
8-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICE (BMP): Activities, practices, facilities, and
procedures that when implemented prevent or reduce the pollution of waters of
the state.
   CFR: The current issue of the Code of Federal Regulations.
   CITY: The city of Temple City.
   CONDITIONALLY EXEMPT NON-STORMWATER DISCHARGE: Conditionally exempt non-
stormwater discharges are certain categories of discharges that are not
composed entirely of stormwater and that are either not sources of pollutants
or may contain only minimal amounts of pollutants and when in compliance with
specified BMPs do not result in significant environmental impacts. (See 55 Fed.
Reg. 47990, 47995 (Nov. 16, 1990).)
   CONSTRUCTION GENERAL PERMIT: General Permit for Storm Water Discharges
Associated with Construction and Land Disturbance Activities. General NPDES
permit issued by the State Water Board, which authorizes the discharge of
stormwater from construction activities under certain conditions.
   EXEMPTED DISCHARGE: Any discharge to the municipal stormwater system that is
not subject to the provisions of this chapter. Exempted discharges are listed
in subsection
8-2-1 B of this title.
   ILLICIT CONNECTION: Any manmade conveyance that is connected to the storm
drain system without a permit, excluding roof-drains and other similar type
connections, that serves as a pathway for any illicit discharge. Examples
include channels, pipelines. conduits, inlets or outlets that are connected
directly to the storm drain system.
   ILLICIT DISCHARGE: Any discharge into the municipal stormwater system or
from the municipal stormwater system into a receiving water that is prohibited
under local. state, or federal statutes, ordinances. codes, or regulations. The
term illicit discharge includes any non-stormwater discharge, except authorized
non-stormwater discharges: conditionally exempt non-stormwater discharges: and
non-stormwater discharges resulting from natural flows specifically identified
in Part III.A of the Municipal NPDES permit.
   INDUSTRIAL GENERAL PERMIT: General Permit for Storm Water Discharges
Associated with Industrial Activities. General NPDES permit issued by the State
Water Board. which authorizes the discharge of stormwater from certain
industrial activities under certain conditions.
   MANAGER: The current city manager of the city of Temple City or authorized
deputy, agent, representative or inspector.
   MUNICIPAL STORMWATER SYSTEM: Any facility within the city by which
stormwater runoff is conveyed to the waters of the United States. This system
includes, but is not limited to, flood control channels, roads with drainage
systems, streets, catch basins, inlets, curbs, ditches, gutters, storm drains,
canals, pipes, and fabricated and natural channels.
   NPDES: National pollutant discharge elimination system.
   NONSTORMWATER DISCHARGE: Any discharge into the municipal storm drain system
that is not composed entirely of stormwater.
   OWNER: When applied to a building or land, shall mean any part owners, joint
owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant or tenant by the
entirety of the whole or of a part of such building or land.
   PERSON: Any natural person, firm, association, club, organization,
corporation, partnership, business trust, company or other entity which is
recognized by law as the subject of rights or duties.
   POLLUTANT: Any substance introduced into the environment that may directly
or indirectly result in adverse effects on the beneficial uses of a resource as
defined in Section 502(6) of the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. Section 1362(6)) or
incorporated into the California Water Code Section 13373. Pollutants may
include, but are not limited to:
   A.   Artificial materials, chips or pieces of natural or manmade materials.
   B.   Household waste.
   C.   Commercial and industrial waste.
   D.   Metals such as cadmium, lead, zinc, copper, solver, nickel, chromium
and nonmetals such as phosphorus and arsenic.
   E.   Petroleum hydrocarbons.
   F.   Excessive eroded soils, sediment and particulate materials.
   G.   Substances having characteristics such as a pH level of less than 6 or
greater than 9, unusual coloration or turbidity, excessive levels of fecal
coliform, fecal streptococcus, or enterococcus.
   H.   Waste materials and wastewater generated by construction activities.
   I.   Materials causing an increase in biochemical oxygen demand, chemical
oxygen demand or total organic carbon.
   J.   Materials which contain base/neutral or acid extractable organic
compounds.
   K.   Those pollutants defined in section 1362(6) of the Federal Clean Water
Act.
   L.   Any other constituent or material that may interfere with or adversely
affect the beneficial uses of the receiving waters, flora, or fauna of the
state.
   PREMISES: Any building, lot, parcel of land, land, or portion of land
whether improved or unimproved.
   STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP): A plan, as required by a state
general permit for discharges of stormwater (e.g.. Construction General Permit
or Industrial General Permit), identifying potential pollutant sources and
describing the design, placement and implementation of BMPs, to effectively
prevent non-stormwater discharges and reduce pollutants in stormwater
discharges from activities covered by the general permit.
   STORMWATER RUNOFF: That part of precipitation which travels via flow across
a surface to the storm drain system or receiving waters.
   STORMWATER TREATMENT SYSTEM: Any physical system designed and/or used to
reduce the concentrations of pollutants in stormwater runoff. (Ord. 96-799;
amd. Ord. 23-1072)
8-1-2: RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION:
Responsibility for the administration and implementation of this title shall be
the responsibility of the city manager for the city of Temple City.
   A.   Delegation Of Powers:
      1.   Whenever a power is granted to or a duty is imposed upon the city
manager by this title, that power may be exercised or the duty may be performed
by a deputy of the city manager or a person authorized pursuant to law by the
manager, unless this title expressly provides otherwise. (Ord. 96-799)
8-1-3: REGULATORY CONSISTENCY:
The provisions of this title shall take precedence over any inconsistent or
conflicting provisions of this code. (Ord. 96-799)
8-1-4: TIME LIMITS:
Any time limit provided for in the provisions of this title may be extended by
mutual written consent of the city manager and the permittee, applicant, or
other affected person. (Ord. 96-799)
8-1-5: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
in this title or any part thereof, is held invalid, or unconstitutional, such
decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining section or portions of
this title or part thereof. The city council hereby declares that it would have
passed each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or
phrase of this chapter irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases may be
declared invalid or unconstitutional. (Ord. 96-799)
8-1-6: FEES:
Fees to be charged for plan checking, inspection and enforcement and any other
activities carried out by the city under this section shall be specified by
resolution of the city council. (Ord. 96-799)
CHAPTER 2
ILLICIT CONNECTIONS AND DISCHARGES
SECTION:
8-2-0: Illicit Connections
8-2-1: Illicit Discharges
8-2-2: Accidental Discharges
8-2-3: Littering
8-2-4: Discharge Of Discontinued Or Banned Chemicals
8-2-0: ILLICIT CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Prohibition Of Illicit Connections:
      1.   It is a violation of this chapter to establish any illicit
connection to the municipal storm sewer system.
      2.   This prohibition is retroactive and applies to connections made in
the past, regardless of whether permissible under the law or practices
applicable or prevailing at the time of the connection.
   B.   Removal Of Existing Illicit Connections:
      1.   It is a violation of this chapter to maintain any illicit connection
to the municipal storm sewer system after discovery.
      2.   All illicit connections are required to be removed or otherwise
sealed in a manner approved by the city manager. (Ord. 96-799)
8-2-1: ILLICIT DISCHARGES:
   A.   Illicit Discharges Prohibited:
      1.   It is a violation of this chapter for a person to cause, permit,
allow, or facilitate any illicit discharge unless that discharge is:
         a.   A nonstormwater discharge authorized by and consistent with the
provision of a valid NPDES permit.
         b.   An exempted discharge or conditionally exempted discharge.
         c.   Is deemed by the city manager or authorized representative to be
necessary to the public health, safety or welfare.
   B.   Exempted Discharges: Part III.A of the Municipal NPDES Permit, and any
subsequent amendments thereto, are hereby adopted and incorporated herein by
reference.
   C.   Cleanup Of Illicit Discharges Required: If a person responsible for an
illicit discharge is identified, it is the responsibility of that person to
clean up the illicit discharge to the satisfaction of the city manager and in a
timely manner. (Ord. 96-799; amd. Ord. 13-984; Ord. 23-1072, 5-2-2023)
8-2-2: ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGES:
   A.   Immediate Notification Required: In the event of an uncontrolled
discharge of a pollutant or pollutants or a mixture containing a pollutant or
pollutants, the discharger shall immediately notify the city of the incident by
telephone. The notification shall include the location of the discharge, the
type, concentration and volume of material being discharged and any corrective
actions taken.
   B.   Written Notification Required: Within ten (10) days after the
uncontrolled discharge, the discharger shall submit to the city a detailed
written report describing the cause of the discharge, corrective action taken
and measures to be taken to prevent future occurrences. Such notification shall
not relieve the discharger of liability or fines incurred as a result of the
uncontrolled discharge. (Ord. 96-799)
8-2-3: LITTERING:
It is a violation of this chapter for any person to throw, deposit, discard,
place, leave, maintain, keep or permit to be thrown, deposited, discarded,
placed, left, maintained or kept any refuse, rubbish, garbage, trash or other
waste material in or upon any street, alley, sidewalk, storm drain, inlet,
catch basin, drainage structure, business place, or upon any public or private
plot of land in the city, except in containers, recycling bags, or other
lawfully established waste disposal facilities. (Ord. 96-799)
8-2-4: DISCHARGE OF DISCONTINUED OR BANNED CHEMICALS:
It is a violation of this chapter for any person to discharge any material to
the municipal stormwater system, containing any pesticide, herbicide or
fungicide, the manufacture of which has been banned by the environmental
protection agency or the California department of pesticide regulation. (Ord.
96-799)
CHAPTER 3
POLLUTANT SOURCE REDUCTION
SECTION:
8-3-0: General Provisions
8-3-1: Pollutant Discharge Control
8-3-2: Construction Activities
8-3-0: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Leaking Vehicles And Machinery: No vehicle, machinery or device shall
be allowed to leak, spill or discharge in any manner oil, grease, antifreeze,
or other pollutant onto any street, alley, road, parking lot or surface in the
city whereon such pollutants can or may be conveyed to the municipal storm
sewer system by stormwater or nonstormwater runoff.
   B.   Equipment Repair: The repair of machinery and equipment, including
motor vehicles, which are visibly leaking oil, fluids or antifreeze in areas
exposed to stormwater runoff is prohibited.
   C.   Storage: Objects such as motor vehicle parts containing grease, oil or
other hazardous substances, and unsealed receptacles containing hazardous
materials shall not be stored in areas susceptible to stormwater runoff.
   D.   Potentially Harmful Materials: Fuel and chemical residue and wastes,
animal waste, food and food processing wastes; garbage, batteries or other
types of materials that are located in areas susceptible to or exposed to
stormwater, and which in the opinion of the city manager could have potential
adverse impacts on water quality shall be managed by appropriate and effective
BMPs or shall be removed immediately and disposed of properly.
   E.   Hazardous Materials: Household hazardous waste may be disposed of
through the Los Angeles County's household hazardous waste program or other
appropriate disposal site, not in trash containers. Other hazardous materials
shall be disposed of at a licensed hazardous waste facility and not in
municipal trash receptacles.
   F.   Landscape Debris: No person shall intentionally dispose of leaves, dirt
or other landscape debris into a storm drain or other appurtenance of the
municipal storm sewer system.
   G.   Blowing Debris: It is a violation of this chapter for any person to use
or operate any mechanical device to blow leaves, dirt, or other debris in or
upon any street, alley, sidewalk, parkway, or other public right of way, unless
such materials are picked up immediately. (Ord. 96-799; amd. Ord. 03-881)
8-3-1: POLLUTANT DISCHARGE CONTROL:
   A.   Regulatory Compliance: No person shall conduct any industrial activity
in the city without first obtaining all permits required by state or federal
law, including an Industrial General Permit when required. Persons conducting
industrial activities within the city should refer to the most recent edition
of the California Stormwater Quality Association (CASQA) Best Management
Practices Handbook, for specific guidance on selecting best management
practices for reducing pollutants in stormwater discharges from industrial
activities.
   B.   Discharge Of Wash Water: The discharge of untreated wash waters to the
municipal storm sewer system from the cleaning of gasoline stations, auto
repair garages, restaurants or similar use facilities is prohibited.
   C.   Discharge From Mobile Operations: The discharge of untreated wastewater
from mobile automobile washing, steam cleaning, mobile carpet cleaning and
other such mobile commercial and industrial operations to the municipal storm
sewer system is prohibited.
   D.   Parking Lot Sweeping: The discharge of water from parking lot cleaning
operations is prohibited. All commercial and industrial parking lots containing
over twenty five (25) parking spaces shall be required to be regularly swept or
cleaned by other equally effective methods to remove debris.
   E.   Storage Area Runoff: The discharge of untreated runoff to the municipal
storm drain system from storage areas where materials containing grease, oil,
or other hazardous substances, and uncovered receptacles containing hazardous
materials are located is prohibited.
   F.   Swimming Pools: The discharge of wastewater including chlorinated/
debrominated swimming pool water and filter backwash from swimming pools is
prohibited.
   G.   Pollutants: The discharge of untreated runoff from the washing of
pollutants from paved or unpaved storage or equipment areas to the municipal
storm drain system is prohibited.
   H.   Impervious Surfaces: The washing of impervious surfaces in industrial
and commercial areas which, results in a discharge of runoff to the municipal
storm drain system, unless specifically required by state or local health and
safety codes, is prohibited if not controlled to the maximum extent
practicable.
   I.   Concrete Trucks: The discharge of concrete or cement laden wash water
from concrete trucks, pumps, tools, and equipment to the municipal storm drain
system is prohibited.
   J.   Equipment Repair And Maintenance: All equipment and machinery is to be
repaired or maintained to prevent leaks, spills and other maintenance related
pollutants from being discharged to the municipal storm drain system.
   K.   Treatment Systems: Stormwater clarifiers, separators, sediment ponds
and other stormwater treatment systems shall be kept in proper operating
condition at all times to reduce pollutants in stormwater runoff and to prevent
the breeding of vectors. All facilities shall be constructed and installed to
permit easy and safe access for maintenance and inspection at all times.
Documentation of maintenance activities should be retained on site at all times
and made readily available for an authorized inspector.
Treatment systems shall be approved by the city manager prior to installation
and operation. The manager shall require plans and supporting information as
necessary for the evaluation of the treatment systems.
   L.   Treatment systems shall be approved by the city manager prior to
installation and operation. The manager shall require plans and supporting
information as necessary for the evaluation of the treatment systems.
   M.   Cleaning Requirements For Private Drains And Catch Basins: Persons
owning or operating drainage facilities that are directly connected to the
public storm drain system shall clean those facilities between May 1 and
September 30 of each year, and reclean those facilities, as needed, before
their sumps are forty percent (40%) full of material. This requirement
includes, but is not limited to, catch basins, culverts, and parkways drains.
   N.   Industrial and commercial dischargers shall implement effective BMPs
listed in Table 6 of the Municipal NPDES Permit, unless a particular pollutant
generating activity does not occur on a facility’s site. (Ord. 96-799; amd.
Ord. 00-849; Ord. 03-881; Ord. 13-984; Ord. 23-1072)
8-3-2: CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Regulatory Compliance: All persons engaged in construction activity
within the city shall operate in compliance with all state, federal, and city
laws regulating or pertaining to stormwater management and runoff.
   B.   Erosion and Sediment Control Plan. (Rep. by Ord. 13-984)
   C.   City Review And Requirements: Prior to the issuance of a building
permit for a new development project, the city shall evaluate the proposed
project using the guidelines and BMP list approved by the California regional
water quality control board, Los Angeles region and erosion and grading
requirements of the city manager to determine the following:
      1.   Its potential to generate the flow of pollutants into the municipal
storm sewer system both during and after construction.
      2.   How well the urban runoff mitigation plan for the proposed project
meets the goals of this chapter. Each plan will be evaluated on its own merits
according to the particular characteristics of the project and the site to be
developed.
      Based upon the review, the city may impose conditions upon the issuance
of the building permit, in addition to any required by the state construction
activities stormwater permit for the project, in order to minimize the flow of
pollutants into the municipal storm sewer system.
      No grading permit for developments with a disturbed area of five (5)
acres or greater shall be issued unless the applicant can show that a notice of
intent to comply with state construction activities stormwater permit has been
filed and that a stormwater prevention plan has been prepared for the project.
   D.   Plan Approval: (Rep. by Ord. 13-984)
   E.   Standard Best Management Practices: Stormwater runoff containing
sediment, construction waste or other pollutants from the construction site and
parking areas shall be reduced to the maximum extent practicable. All
construction sites shall implement an effective combination of the erosion and
sediment control BMPs listed in Table 7 and/or Table 8 of the Municipal NPDES
Permit (where applicable). The following best management practices shall also
apply to all construction projects within the city, and shall be required from
the time of demolition of existing structure or commencement of construction
until receipt of a certificate of occupancy.
      1.   Sediment, construction waste, and other pollutants from construction
activities shall be retained on the construction site to the maximum extent
practicable.
      2.   Structural controls such as sediment barriers, plastic sheeting,
detention ponds, dikes, filter berms, etc., shall be utilized to the maximum
extent practicable in order to minimize the escape of sediment and other
pollutants from the site.
      3.   All excavated soil shall be located on the site in a manner that
minimizes the amount of sediments running onto the street, drainage facilities
or adjacent properties and covered with appropriate materials until the soil is
either used or removed from the site.
      4.   No washing of construction or other vehicles is permitted adjacent
to a construction site. No water from the washing of construction or other
vehicles is permitted to run off the construction site, or to otherwise enter
the municipal storm sewer system.
   F.   Vegetation Clearing Limits: As a condition of granting a construction
permit, the city may set reasonable limits on the clearing of natural
vegetation from construction sites, in order to reduce the potential for soil
erosion. These limits may include, but not be limited to, regulating the length
of time soil is allowed to remain bare or prohibiting bare soil.
   G.   Additional Plans: The city manager may require, prior to the issuance
of any building or grading permit, preparation of appropriate erosion and
sediment control plans, stormwater pollution prevention or other plans
consistent with the countywide development construction guidance document and
the goals of this chapter.
   H.   Construction Activities Requiring Construction General Permit Coverage:
No person shall commence or continue any construction activity in the city that
causes the disturbance of one (1) acre or more of soil by clearing, grading,
excavation or demolition without first demonstrating to the satisfaction of the
city manager that such person has filed a "notice of intent" to comply with the
Construction General Permit for stormwater discharges associated with
construction activity, or has obtained a waste discharge identification number
from the State Water Resources Control Board and has prepared a state
Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP).
      Copies Of Documents: All persons engaged in construction activity within
the city requiring a state construction activity stormwater permit shall have
at the construction site available for review the following:
      1.   A copy of the notice of intent for the state construction activities
stormwater permit.
      2.   The waste discharge identification number issued by the state water
resources control board.
      3.   Copies of the stormwater pollution prevention plan and stormwater
monitoring plan as required by the permit.
   I.   Inspections: Construction or work not otherwise designated as an exempt
project. shall be subject to inspection by the city manager to assess whether
the minimum requirements for construction development are being achieved and
applicable BMPs are being implemented.
   J.   Compliance Waivers: Full or partial waivers of compliance with the
requirements of this section may be obtained by persons who apply in writing
and show that incorporation of design elements that address the objectives set
forth above is an economic or physical impossibility due to the particular
configuration of the site or due to irreconcilable conflicts with other city
requirements. All such requests for waivers must be approved, in writing, by
the city manager. (Ord. 96-799; amd. Ord. 23-1072)
CHAPTER 4
INSPECTION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
8-4-0: Authority
8-4-1: Right Of Entry
8-4-2: Enforcement
8-4-0: AUTHORITY:
The city manager, and duly authorized representatives thereof, are hereby
authorized and directed to enforce all provisions of this title. (Ord. 96-799)
8-4-1: RIGHT OF ENTRY:
Whenever an authorized enforcement officer has reasonable cause to believe that
there exists in any building or upon any premises any condition which
constitutes a violation of the provision of this title, the officer may enter
such building or premises at all reasonable times to inspect the same or
sample, review and copy records, or require regular reports from industrial
facilities (including construction sites) and perform any other duty imposed
upon the officer by this title, provided that:
   A.   If such building or premises be occupied, such officer shall first
present proper credentials and request entry.
   B.   If such building or premises be unoccupied, such officer shall first
make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or occupant of the building or
premises and request entry. If the event that a request for entry is refused,
the officer is hereby empowered to seek assistance from any court of competent
jurisdiction in obtaining such entry. (Ord. 96-799; amd. Ord. 03-881)
8-4-2: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Notice To Correct Violations:
      1.   The city manager or duly authorized representatives may serve notice
of violation upon a person owning or occupying a premises, describing the
violations and requiring prompt correction thereof, when:
         a.   Pollutants or potential pollutants are being maintained,
discharged or deposited in such a manner as to create, or if allowed to
continue will create, any one or more of the following conditions:
            (1)   A public nuisance.
            (2)   A threat to public safety.
            (3)   Pollution of underground or surface waters.
            (4)   Damage to any public sewer, municipal storm sewer system, or
public or private property.
         b.   The person has failed to respond or conform with a previous
notice of violation within the time period specified in the notice.
         c.   Failure to comply with a duly served notice of violation shall
constitute a willful violation of this title.
   B.   Cease And Desist Order: The city manager or duly authorized
representatives may serve a cease and desist order upon a person owning or
occupying a premises, requiring such person to:
      1.   Immediately discontinue any process water, waste water or pollutant
discharge to the municipal storm sewer system.
      2.   Immediately block or divert any flow of water from the property,
where the flow is occurring in violation of any provision of this title.
      3.   Immediately discontinue any other violation of this title. The cease
and desist order may contain terms and conditions or other provisions to ensure
compliance with this title.
   C.   Violation Of Public Nuisance: A violation of any provision of this
title is declared to be a public nuisance. The city may abate such violation(s)
by means of a civil action with all costs for such abatement and restoration to
be borne by the party responsible for the nuisance.
   D.   Criminal Penalties: Any person violating any provision of this title is
guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction is punishable by fine not
exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or by imprisonment in the county
jail for a period not exceeding six (6) months, or by both such fine and
imprisonment.
   E.   Continued Violations: Each day during which any violation described in
this title as willful    continues shall constitute a separate offense
punishable as provided by this section.
   F.   Other Penalties: Any person who violates any provision of this title,
any provision of any permit issued pursuant to this title, or who discharges
waste or waste water which causes pollution, or who violates any cease and
desist order, prohibition, or effluent limitation, may also be in violation of
the federal clean water act and/or Porter-Cologne act and may be subject to the
sanctions of those acts including, civil and criminal penalties.
   G.   Cumulative Penalty: The penalties and remedies established by this
title shall be cumulative.
   H.   Reimbursement: Any penalty collected hereunder shall be used as
reimbursement for the department of public works' costs and expenses of
administration, inspection and enforcement of this title.
   I.   Emergency Remedial Measures: The city shall have full power and
authority to take any necessary precautions including, but not limited to,
decontamination, storm drain closure, packaging, diking, and transportation of
materials, in order to protect life, protect property, or prevent an imminent
hazard to the public's health, safety, or welfare. (Ord. 96-799; amd. Ord. 23-
1072)
TITLE 9
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
ZONING CODE
ARTICLE A. INTRODUCTION AND GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
9-1A-1: Title And Authority
9-1A-2: Purpose
9-1A-3: Applicability Of The Zoning Code
9-1A-4: Minimum Requirements
9-1A-5: Conflicting Provisions Or Regulations
9-1A-6: Reference To Other Laws
9-1A-7: Effect Of Prior Permits
9-1A-8: Violations Continue
9-1A-9: Pending Proceedings
9-1A-10: Interpretation
9-1A-11: Timing
9-1A-12: Definitions
9-1A-1: TITLE AND AUTHORITY:
The provisions of this chapter will be referred to and cited as the TEMPLE CITY
ZONING CODE and referred to in this chapter as the "zoning code". The zoning
code is adopted pursuant to the authority in section 65850 of the California
Government Code. (Ord. 19-1036)
9-1A-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to implement the city of Temple City General
Plan and to protect the public health, safety, and welfare of the community.
This chapter is intended to:
A.   Establish standards, regulations, and incentives that provide for the
highest and best use of buildings, structures, and land.
B.   Serve the needs of residential, commercial, and industrial developments
within the city.
C.   Regulate and limit the height, number of stories, size, and location of
buildings and other structures, hereafter designed, erected, or altered.
D.   Regulate and determine the size of yards and open spaces.
E.   Regulate and limit the density of population.
F.   Facilitate adequate provisions for community utilities, such as
transportation, water, sewage, schools, parks and other public requirements.
G.   Promote the public health, safety, welfare and general prosperity with the
aim of preserving a wholesome, serviceable and attractive community. (Ord. 19-
1036)
9-1A-3: APPLICABILITY OF THE ZONING CODE:
This chapter will apply to all land, uses, and structures within the City of
Temple City unless specifically exempted by the terms of specific sections of
this chapter or unless applicability is prohibited by law. (Ord. 19-1036)
9-1A-4: MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS:
In applying the provisions of this chapter to properties and uses, the
provisions of this chapter will be deemed and construed to be the minimum
requirements necessary for the promotion of the public health, safety, and
welfare, unless the context of the regulation clearly otherwise provides. (Ord.
19-1036)
9-1A-5: CONFLICTING PROVISIONS OR REGULATIONS:
A.   Provisions of This Chapter: In the case of conflict between one section of
this chapter and any other section of this chapter, the more specific provision
will apply, except that provisions of specific plan or overlay zone districts
will prevail over other provisions of this chapter, regardless of whether they
are more or less specific.
B.   Municipal Ordinances or Regulations: In the case of a conflict between any
part of this chapter and any other provision of the Temple City municipal code
or ordinance of this city, the more specific provision will apply.
C.   Other Ordinances or Regulations: In the case of a conflict between any
section of this chapter and any other public law, ordinance, or regulation, the
sections that are more specific or that impose higher standards or requirements
will govern, unless state or federal law requires a different interpretation.
(Ord. 19-1036)
9-1A-6: REFERENCE TO OTHER LAWS:
Whenever reference is made herein, to other applicable provisions of the Temple
City municipal code, state or federal law, or other regulations, the reference
will be construed to be the applicable state law provisions as they may be
amended from time to time. (Ord. 19-1036)
9-1A-7: EFFECT OF PRIOR PERMITS:  
Use permits and approvals, building permits, sign permits, and variances that
are valid on the effective date of this chapter will remain valid until their
expiration date. Projects with valid approvals or permits will be completed
pursuant to the development standards in effect at the time of approval. If the
approval or permit (including any extensions of time permitted and approved
under the prior zoning ordinance) expires, future development will comply with
the requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 19-1036)
9-1A-8: VIOLATIONS CONTINUE:
Any violation of the previous zoning ordinance will continue to be a violation
under this chapter and will be subject to the penalties and enforcement set
forth in Article C, Administration and Enforcement. (Ord. 19-1036)
9-1A-9: PENDING PROCEEDINGS:
If, prior to the effective date of this chapter, legislative or administrative
action is being processed, such action will be deemed to have been processed
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, and will be processed, insofar as
possible, in accordance with the provisions hereof. (Ord. 19-1036)
9-1A-10: INTERPRETATION:
The director will be authorized to interpret the meaning and applicability of
all provisions of this chapter, including but not limited to the location of
zoning district boundary lines, unless a different city official is
specifically designated in this chapter to make an interpretation. The
decisions of the director are subject to appeal, pursuant to Title 9, Chapter
1, Article C. (Ord. 19-1036)
9-1A-11: TIMING:
If completion of a timer period, such as an appeal period, notice period,
decision period and the like falls on a weekend or holiday, the appeal, notice,
or decision will become effective after 5:00 p.m. on the next available
business day. (Ord. 19- 1036)
9-1A-12: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of carrying out the purpose of this zoning code the words,
phrases and terms included herein will be deemed to have the meanings ascribed
to them as follows:
 
ABUTTING/        Contiguous to. Having district boundaries or lot lines in common (i.e., not
ADJOINING:       separated by an alley, public or private right-of-way, or street). See also
                 "Adjacent."
ACCESS:          The place, or way, by which pedestrians and/or vehicles will have safe, adequate
                 and usable ingress and egress to a property.
                 A residential dwelling unit that may be attached to the main dwelling, located
ACCESSORY        within the living area of the main dwelling, or detached from the main dwelling,
DWELLING UNIT:   which provides complete independent living facilities for one (1) or more persons.
                 It will include permanent provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking and
                 sanitation, and be located on the same parcel as a single-family dwelling.
ACCESSORY        An accessory dwelling unit that shares at least one common wall with the primary
DWELLING UNIT,   dwelling and is not fully contained within the existing space of the primary
ATTACHED:        dwelling or an accessory structure.
ACCESSORY        An accessory dwelling unit that does not share a common wall or common roof with
DWELLING UNIT,   the primary dwelling on a single-family lot or primary dwellings on a multi-family
DETACHED:        lot and is not fully contained within the existing space of an accessory structure.
ACCESSORY        An accessory dwelling unit that is fully contained within the existing space of the
DWELLING UNIT,   primary dwelling or an accessory structure.
INTERNAL:
                 A unit that is no more than five hundred (500) square feet in size and contained
ACCESSORY        entirely within a single- family residence, or a proposed single-family residence.
DWELLING UNIT,   A junior accessory dwelling unit may include an efficiency kitchen that is of
JUNIOR:          reasonable size in relation to the size of the junior accessory dwelling unit. Such
                 units may not be sold separately from the primary residence. The property having a
                 junior accessory dwelling unit must require owner-occupancy.
ACCESSORY USE:   A use customarily incidental, related and clearly subordinate, to a permitted
                 principal use.
                 The condition of being near to or close to but not necessarily having a common
                 dividing line. Two (2) properties that are separated by an alley, public or private
ADJACENT:        right-of-way, street (other than a principal arterial), public access easement, or
                 creek, river, stream, or other natural or artificial waterway will be considered as
                 adjoining one another. See also "Abutting/Adjoining."
ADMINISTRATIVE   A process and permit required for certain identified minor deviations from the
MODIFICATIONS:   provisions of this code.
AFFORDABLE       The following indented terms and phrases are defined for the purposes of section
HOUSING          9-1C-6 of this chapter relating to density bonuses:
DEFINITIONS:
                 Concessions or other incentives include a reduction in a site development standard
                 or modification of another Zoning Code requirement or design standard, but not
                 including Building Code requirements or other health and safety standards, that
                 results in an identifiable, financially sufficient, and actual cost reduction; or,
                 approval of mixed use zoning in conjunction with the housing project if commercial,
Concessions Or   office, industrial, or other land uses will reduce the cost of the housing
Other            development and if the commercial, office, industrial, or other land uses are
Incentives:      compatible with the housing project and the existing or planned development in the
                 area where the proposed housing project will be located; or other concession or
                 regulatory incentive that results in an identifiable, financially sufficient, and
                 actual cost reduction, as determined by the city in its sole discretion. A
                 concession or other incentive does not include additional density beyond that
                 allowed in section
                 9-1C-6 of this chapter relating to density bonuses.
                 An increase in density above the otherwise maximum allowable residential density
                 under this title and the land use element of the general plan as of the date the
                 development application for the project is deemed complete. The amount of the
                 density bonus to which the applicant is entitled will vary according to the amount
                 by which the percentage of affordable dwelling units meets the percentage
Density Bonus:   established in sections
                 9-1C-6-L of this chapter. When calculating the number of density bonus units
                 allowed, any fraction of a residential unit will be counted as a whole unit. An
                 applicant may elect to accept a lesser percentage of density bonus units. An
                 applicant may not seek a density bonus greater than that provided in sections
                 9-1C-6-L of this chapter relating to density bonuses, or by state law.
                 Any association, corporation, firm, joint venture, partnership, person, or any
Developer:       entity or combination of entities, which seeks city approval for all or part of a
                 residential development project.
                 For sections
                 9-1C-6-L of this chapter relating to density bonuses, a development standard
                 includes a site or construction condition that applies to a residential development
Development      pursuant to any ordinance, General Plan element, specific plan, charter amendment,
Standard:        or other local condition, law, policy, resolution, or regulation. A development
                 standard subject to waiver does not include additional density beyond that allowed
                 in sections
                 9-1C-6-L of this chapter relating to density bonuses.
Low Income       Households whose gross income does not exceed eighty percent (80%) of the median
Households:      income for Los Angeles County as determined annually by the U.S. Department of
                 Housing and Urban Development.
Moderate Income  Households whose gross income does not exceed one hundred twenty percent (120%) of
Households:      the median income for Los Angeles County as determined annually by the U.S.
                 Department of Housing and Urban Development.
Very-Low Income  Households whose gross income is equal to fifty percent (50%) or less of the median
Households:      income for Los Angeles County as determined annually by the U.S. Department of
                 Housing and Urban Development.
                 Off-site Consumption: Any establishment in which alcoholic beverages are sold,
ALCOHOL SALES,   served, or given away for consumption off the premises and which is applying for or
OFF-SITE:        has obtained any State ABC Licenses for all on-site consumption. References to the
                 establishment will include any immediately adjacent area that is owned, leased, or
                 rented, or controlled by the licensee.
                 Any establishment in which alcoholic beverages are sold, served, or given away for
ALCOHOL SALES,   consumption on the premises and which is applying for or has obtained any State ABC
ON-SITE:         Licenses for on-site consumption. References to the establishment will include any
                 immediately adjacent area that is owned, leased, or rented, or controlled by the
                 licensee.
                 A public or private way, other than a street or highway, permanently reserved as a
ALLEY:           means of vehicular access to adjoining properties. This does not include flag lots,
                 tiered lots, and easements.
                 An establishment that provides more than four (4) amusement devices, whether or not
                 the devices constitute the primary use or an accessory or incidental use of the
                 premises. Amusement devices mean an electronic or mechanical equipment, game, or
                 machine that is played or used for amusement, which, when so played or used
                 involves skill and which is activated by coin, key, or token, or for which the
ARCADE           player or user pays money for the privilege of playing or using. This use may also
(ELECTRONIC GAME include internet/cyber cafes, where three (3) or more computers and/or other
CENTER):         electronic devices, for access to that system commonly referred to as the
                 "internet," e-mail, playing video games over the Internet or other network system,
                 and/or access to other computer software programs, is provided to the public for
                 compensation and/or for public access. Internet café is also synonymous with PC
                 café, cyber café, internet gaming center, computer/internet rental and cyber
                 centers.
APARTMENT:       The same as the definition of “dwelling, multiple.”
                 A tower, spire, cupola, chimney, penthouse, water tank, flagpole, theater scenery
APPURTENANCE:    loft, radio or television antenna, transmission tower, fire equipment, or other
                 similar structure that is attached to a structure and not intended for human
                 occupancy.
                 A major thoroughfare or primary roadway, used primarily for through traffic rather
ARTERIAL STREET: than for access to abutting land, that is characterized by high vehicular capacity
                 and continuity of movement. The street is either divided or undivided and its main
                 function is to carry nonlocal traffic at medium speeds.
ASSESSOR:        The Los Angeles County Assessor.
ASSEMBLY/MEETING
FACILITIES,      A facility for public or private assembly and meetings, exclusive of Religious
PUBLIC OR        Assembly, which is defined separately.
PRIVATE:
                 Any facility specifically designed and used to accommodate the gathering of persons
                 for the purposes of fellowship, worship, or similar conduct of religious practices
ASSEMBLY,        and activities. This definition includes functionally related internal facilities
RELIGIOUS:       (i.e., kitchens, multi-purpose rooms, storage, etc.) and residences for clergy.
                 Associated uses (i.e., day care centers or full-time or part-time schools) may be
                 allowed as incidental uses to the primary use.
ATTIC:           The area located between the top plate and the roof or ridge of a building.
                 A pedestrian-oriented machine used by bank and financial service patrons for
AUTOMATED TELLER conducting transactions including deposits, fund transfers, and withdrawals without
MACHINES (ATM):  contact with financial institution personnel. The machines may be located at or
                 within a bank, or in other locations.
                 An establishment used primarily for the on premises sale and consumption of
BAR OR TAVERN:   alcoholic beverages including establishments where food is sold and/or
                 entertainment provided as incidental thereto.
BASEMENT:        That portion of a building which is totally or partly below finished grade of the
                 lot upon which it is located.
                 Any space in a dwelling unit or accessory structure which is seventy (70) square
                 feet or greater in size and which is located along an exterior wall, but not
BEDROOM:         including the following: hall; bathroom; kitchen; living room (maximum of one (1)
                 per dwelling unit); dining room (in proximity to kitchen, maximum of one (1) per
                 dwelling unit); family room (maximum of one (1) per dwelling unit), laundry room,
                 closet/dressing room opening off of a bedroom.
BERM:            A raised earthen area.
                 Landscape elements designed to remove silt and pollution from surface runoff water.
                 A bioswale consists of a depressed drainage course with gently sloped sides and
BIOSWALES:       filled with vegetation, compost, and/or riprap, and designed to let water flow
                 slowly. Bioswales are designed to slow down water flows after precipitation, let
                 water soak into soil, and allow pollutants to adhere and/or degrade. Bioswales can
                 include underdrains.
                 Any structure having a roof supported by columns or by walls and intended for the
BUILDING:        shelter, housing or enclosure of persons, animals, chattels of property of any
                 kind.
Building,        A single-story detached building located on the same lot as the primary building or
Accessory:       principal use. When an accessory building is attached to a primary building by a
                 common wall or roof, it is considered a part of the primary building.
Building,        A building in which is conducted a principal use permitted upon the lot upon which
Primary:         it is situated. In a residential zone a dwelling will be deemed to be a main
                 building.
CARPORT:         A permanently roofed structure with not more than two (2) enclosed sides, used or
                 intended to be used for automobile shelter and storage.
CELLAR:          The same as the definition of “Basement.”
CENTERLINE:      The centerline of any street, highway or alley.
CHILDREN'S DAY   A facility intended solely for the admission of minors with mental illness or
CENTER           neurological or emotional disorders, who are provided with an organized program of
(EMOTIONALLY     services. Patients are not permitted to remain overnight.
DISTURBED):
CITY:            The City of Temple City.
CITY COUNCIL:    The City Council of the City of Temple City.
                 Any building or premises used by an association of persons, whether incorporated or
CLUB, PRIVATE:   unincorporated, organized for some common purpose, but not including a group
                 organized solely or primarily to render a service customarily carried on as a
                 commercial enterprise.
COLLECTION       A center to collect various items (i.e. clothes, household goods, recyclable
FACILITY:        materials) from the public either as a donation or for a redemption value.
COMMERCIAL USE:  Any business that sells goods or services to the public, either retail or
                 wholesale, for remuneration.
COMMERCIAL       Establishments providing participant or spectator recreation or entertainment,
RECREATION AND   either indoors or outdoors, for a fee or admission charge.
ENTERTAINMENT:
COMMISSION:      The planning commission of the City of Temple City.
COMMUNICATIONS   Buildings housing operating electrical and mechanical equipment utilized in
EQUIPMENT        conducting a public utility communications operation.
BUILDINGS:
                 Any facility as defined in the Health and Safety Code section 1502(a), which
COMMUNITY CARE   provides nonmedical care on a twenty-four (24) hour a day basis to seven or more
FACILITY/LARGE:  persons including, but not limited to, persons with substance abuse illnesses,
                 physically handicapped, mentally impaired, incompetent persons, and abused or
                 neglected children.
                 Any facility as defined in the Health and Safety Code section 1502(a), which
                 provides nonmedical care on a twenty-four (24) hour a day basis to six (6) or less
COMMUNITY CARE   persons including, but not limited to, persons with substance abuse illnesses,
FACILITY/SMALL:  physically handicapped, mentally impaired, incompetent persons, and abused or
                 neglected children. Small community care facility will be considered a permitted
                 use within all residential zoned districts.
                 A discretionary permit required for certain uses specified in this Code to provide
CONDITIONAL USE  for the thorough review of such proposed uses and their associated structures and
PERMIT:          other improvements, with the intent of ensuring that if approved, such use can be
                 operated in a manner compatible with surrounding uses.
CONVALESCENT     The same as the definition of “Nursing and Convalescent Hospital.”
HOME:
                 A retail store that sells limited grocery, food, and dry goods. A convenience store
                 may or may not include gasoline sales. Convenience stores are generally less than
CONVENIENCE      3,000 square feet in floor area and function as a quick service, limited item
STORE:           retail outlet for convenience purposes. Convenience stores are distinct from a
                 grocery store and are classified as "Retail sales" in the land use and permit
                 requirement tables.
COUNCIL:         The City Council of the City of Temple City.
                 An open, unoccupied space bounded on three or more sides by the walls of a
COURT:           building. An inner court is a court entirely enclosed within the exterior walls of
                 a building. All other courts are outer courts.
DAY CAMP OR      A facility with an organized daytime program for the supervision and care of
CHILDCARE        children.
CENTER:
                 Establishments providing non-medical care for persons on a less than twenty-four
DAY CARE, ADULT: (24)-hour basis. May provide a program of education or training, handicraft,
                 vocational, and recreational activities. Patients are not permitted to remain
                 overnight.
DAYCARE CENTER:  Any childcare facility other than a "Daycare home, Family", and includes infant
                 centers, preschools, and extended daycare facilities.
                 A business engaged in a mixture of personal services such as haircuts, hair
                 treatments, manicures, pedicures, facials, waxing, and skin treatments rendered by
                 licensed professionals such as manicurists, aestheticians, makeup artists,
DAY SPA:         hairstylists, and other related health and beauty professionals. Day spas differ
                 from beauty shops and nail shops by having separate or private rooms. A day spa may
                 offer incidental massage therapy per sections 5-2-E and
                 9-1T-12 of this Code.
                 The destruction or removal of a building or portion of a building. For purposes of
DEMOLITION:      determining whether a structure has been demolished, it is the intentional
                 destruction and removal of fifty percent (50%) or more of the enclosing exterior
                 walls and fifty percent (50%) or more of the roof of any structure.
DIRECTOR:        The Community Development Director of Temple City or his/her designee.
DISABLED         A vehicle which is not operable, by reason of the removal of or damage to, integral
VEHICLE:         component parts.
DISASSEMBLE:     The same as the definition of “Dismantle.”
DISCRETIONARY    Any approval or entitlement granted in compliance with this Zoning Code that
APPROVAL:        requires the exercise of discretion, including the ability of the review authority
                 to impose conditions of approval.
                 A business where one can be served without leaving one's car and where the vehicle
DRIVE THROUGH:   is customer is served by way of a window in the business, a kiosk, or similar
                 device. This is does not include businesses that deliver items from the store to a
                 vehicle parked in a legal parking space.
DWELLINGS,       The same as building designed or used for occupancy, as living quarters, by two (2)
MULTIPLE:        or more families on the same lot and containing one (1) dwelling unit for each such
                 family.
                 Any residential structure which is to be newly constructed or voluntarily
                 demolished and reconstructed. A remodel or house addition shall be considered a new
DWELLING, NEW:   dwelling if the proposed project involves voluntary demolition of fifty percent
                 (50%) or more of the enclosing exterior walls and fifty percent (50%) or more of
                 the roof of any structure, including any attached garage.
DWELLING, SINGLE A building designed or used for occupancy, as living quarters, by one (1) family.
OR ONE-FAMILY:
DWELLING, THREE- A building designed or used for occupancy, as living quarters, by three (3)
FAMILY:          families and containing three (3) dwelling units.
DWELLING, TWO-   A building designed or used for occupancy, as living quarters, by two (2) families
FAMILY (DUPLEX): and containing two (2) dwelling units.
                 One (1) or more rooms in a building or portion thereof, designed for, and intended
                 to be used, for occupancy by one (1) family, for living quarters. A single dwelling
DWELLING UNIT:   unit will contain a maximum of one (1) kitchen and can include no more than one (1)
                 wok kitchen and one outdoor kitchen. All habitable rooms will be internally
                 accessible from within the dwelling unit.
EASEMENT:        A grant of one (1) or more of the property rights by the property owner to and/or
                 for the use by the public, a corporation, or another person or entity.
EATING AND
DRINKING
ESTABLISHMENTS:
Accessory Food   An establishment that sells food and/or beverages as an accessory use in a retail,
Service:         office, or institutional structure and that does not change the character of the
                 primary use.
Bar, Lounges,
Nightclubs,      Any establishment that sells or serves alcoholic beverages for consumption on the
Taverns          premises and is holding or applying for a public premise license from ABC and in
(Includes        which persons under twenty-one (21) years of age are restricted from the premises.
Independent Or   References to the establishment will include any immediately adjacent area that is
Accessory        owned, leased, or rented, or controlled by the licensee.
Establishments):
                 A restaurant which supplies food and beverages primarily in disposable containers
Fast Food:       and which is characterized by high automobile accessibility, self-service and short
                 stays by customers.
                 A dining area with seats and/or tables located outdoors of a sit-down restaurant,
Outdoor Dining:  fast food, or other food service establishment. Outdoor dining is located entirely
                 outside the walls of the contiguous structure or enclosed on one (1) or two (2)
                 sides by the walls of the structure with or without a solid roof cover.
Limited:         Outdoor dining area encompassing up to eight hundred (800) square feet of area,
                 inclusive.
General:         Outdoor dining area encompassing more than eight hundred (800) square feet of area.
                 An establishment used primarily for the preparation and sale of food and beverages
                 to be consumed on the premises including the sale of alcoholic beverages where
Restaurant:      incidental to the sale of food. A restaurant with a bar area exceeding five hundred
                 (500) square feet or thirty percent (30%) of the dining area shall be classified as
                 a bar.
Restaurant,      A restaurant where, in whole or in part, food and beverages are served to
drive-in:        customers, and consumed, in vehicles on the premises.
                 A restaurant that sells prepared food either indoors or outdoors in disposable
Restaurants,     containers (e.g., paper or plastic). These uses include retail bakeries that
fast food:       provide on-site seating. A restaurant with a bar area exceeding five hundred (500)
                 square feet or thirty percent (30%) of the dining area shall be classified as a
                 bar.
                 An establishment engaged in the business of selling food and beverages, including
                 alcoholic beverages, prepared on site for primarily on-site consumption. Food and
                 beverages are served to the customer at a fixed location (i.e., booth, counter, or
Restaurant, sit- table). Food and beverages are ordered from individual menus. Customers typically
down:            pay for food and beverages after service and/or consumption. The sale or service of
                 sandwiches, whether prepared in the kitchen or made elsewhere and heated up on the
                 premises, or snack foods, will not constitute a sit-down restaurant. A restaurant
                 with a bar area exceeding five hundred (500) square feet or thirty percent (30%) of
                 the dining area shall be classified as a bar.
                 An establishment that offers a limited variety of food or beverages. Transactions
                 are sales for off-site consumption. Customers are served either at a counter or
Take-out         service window. Incidental seating (less than two hundred fifty (250) sq. ft. of
service:         seating area) may be provided for limited on-site consumption of food or beverages.
                 Typical uses include bakeries, coffee stores, ice cream and frozen dessert stores,
                 delivery-only pizza establishments, small delicatessens, and similar
                 establishments.
EDUCATIONAL      Any public, private or parochial elementary, junior high, high school, university,
INSTITUTION:     or other school giving general academic instruction in the several branches of
                 learning, having five (5) or more students.
EFFICIENCY       A cooking facility with appliances, a food preparation counter, storage cabinets,
KITCHEN:         and is of reasonable size in relation to the size of the unit.
                 A dwelling unit that is not less than two hundred twenty (220) square feet of floor
                 area with a kitchen sink, cooking appliance, and refrigeration facilities, each
EFFICIENCY UNIT: having a clear working space of not less than thirty inches (30") in front. The
                 unit must be provided with a separate bathroom and the bedroom must have a separate
                 closet. An additional one hundred (100) square feet of floor area must be required
                 for each occupant of such unit in excess of two (2).
                 An electronic and/or battery-operated device, the use of which may resemble
                 smoking, which can be used to deliver an inhaled dose of nicotine or other tobacco
                 derived product or cannabis product. "Electronic smoking and vaping device"
                 includes any such electronic smoking or vaping device, whether manufactured,
ELECTRONIC       distributed, marketed, or sold as an electronic cigarette (e-cigarette), an
CIGARETTE AND    electronic cigar, an electronic cigarillo, an electronic pipe, an electronic
VAPING DEVICE:   hookah, personal product vaporizer (i.e., liquid, dry herb, oils, wax, etc.),
                 electronic nicotine delivery system, e-hookah, or any other similar system.
                 "Electronic smoking and vaping device" does not include any product specifically
                 approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration for use in the
                 mitigation, treatment, or prevention of disease.
                 A managed housing facility with minimal supportive services for homeless persons
                 and in which occupancy by a homeless person is limited to a term of six (6) months
EMERGENCY        or less. No individual or household may be denied emergency shelter because of an
SHELTER:         inability to pay. Supportive services may include, but are not limited to, meal
                 preparation, an activities center, daycare for children of homeless persons,
                 vocational rehabilitation and other similar activities.
ENVIRONMENTAL    An analysis conducted in compliance with the provisions of the California
ANALYSIS:        Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), California Public Resources Code section 21000 et
                 seq.
EXPLOSIVES:      Any explosive substance as defined in section 12000 of the Health and Safety Code
                 of the State of California.
FACADE:          The portion of any exterior elevation of a structure from grade to the top of the
                 roofline and the width of the structure.
FAMILY:          Two (2) or more individuals living together as a single housekeeping unit in an
                 apartment or a dwelling unit.
                 A facility that regularly provides care, protection, and supervision for 14 or
FAMILY DAYCARE   fewer children, in the provider's own home, for periods of less than 24 hours per
HOMES:           day, while the parents or guardians are away, and is either a large family daycare
                 home or a small family daycare home. Family daycare homes, includes both large and
                 small family daycare homes.
FAR:             See “Floor Area Ratio (FAR).”
                 An outdoor market certified for direct retail sales by farms to the public by the
FARMERS MARKET:  State or County Agricultural Commission under California Code of Regulations Title
                 3, Chapter 3, Article 6.5. Farmers' Markets can also include limited sales of
                 crafts and goods.
                 An artificially constructed barrier of any material or combination of materials
FENCE:           erected to enclose or screen areas of land. Fences do not include hedges or
                 landscape materials.
FLOOR AREA,      The total horizontal area of all the floors of a building included within the
GROSS:           surrounding walls, exclusive of vents, shafts, courts and off-street parking
                 facilities.
                 The total gross floor area included within the surrounding exterior walls of a
                 building(s) or portion thereof divided by the lot area, prior to any required
                 dedications. In calculating floor area ratio (FAR), the exterior walls must be
                 counted as gross square footage. For residential uses (not mixed use or
                 commercial), the floor area must be counted twice for any portion of the dwelling
                 where the distance between the floor and the ceiling directly above exceeds twelve
                 feet (12') and the height of a single-story structure or single-story portion of a
                 two (2)-story structure exceeds eighteen feet (18').
                 For single-family structures and in the R-1 Zone, the floor area ratio limitations
                 of Section
                 9-1G-12 will apply to:
                 A.   The living area of any two-story dwelling or single-story dwelling in excess
                 of eighteen feet (18') in height.
                 B.   Accessory structures including garage areas in excess of required parking,
FLOOR AREA       pool houses, playrooms, accessory dwelling units, and the like.
RATIO:           C.   Patios, porches, entryways, or the like (recessed or projecting) on the side
                 or rear of structures that are more than fifty percent (50%) covered or greater
                 than twenty percent (20%) enclosed.
                    1.   In instances where a portion of a patio, porch, entryway, or the like is
                 open to the sky and an adjoining area is covered, the two (2) areas shall be
                 calculated independently, not averaged.
                    2.   The area underneath a second floor overhang shall be counted toward floor
                 area, when the overhang is greater than four feet (4') in depth or twenty-five (25)
                 square feet.
                    3.   Materials such as glass, window screen, wood, stucco, brick, or any other
                 material that is installed in a permanent manner that provides a visual or physical
                 separation shall be considered as providing an enclosure. Exterior grade fabric
                 curtains and mosquito netting tied back so that it does not provide a visual or
                 physical separation shall not be considered as providing an enclosure.
                    In the R-2 Zone, floor area ratio limitations shall apply to all structures on a
                 lot including enclosed garages and accessory buildings.
FRONTAGE,        The width of the front boundary line of a lot which abuts upon a street or roadway.
STREET:
                 Any business enterprise or establishment having games of skill or arcade games as a
GAME ARCADE:     principal use or more than four (4) games of skill or arcade games as an incidental
                 use.
                 Any building, with three (3) enclosed sides, having not less than two hundred (200)
GARAGE:          square feet of floor area, provided with a closable access door or doors, which is
                 used or intended to be used for automobile shelter or storage.
GRADE, GROUND    The average level of the finished ground surface of a lot, immediately surrounding
LEVEL:           a building, measured at the center of all walls of the building.
GRADIENT:        The rate of vertical change of a ground surface expressed as a percentage figure
                 and determined by dividing the vertical distance by the horizontal distance.
                 A self-service retailer that predominantly sells a combination of foods including,
                 meat, produce, dairy products and household supplies. Grocery stores also typically
                 sell baked goods, toiletries, over the counter medicines, flowers, alcoholic
                 beverages, stationary, magazines, and pet supplies. Grocery stores also meet the
GROCERY STORE:   performance standards found in
                 9-1T-19. Regardless of size, grocery stores that meet the grocery store performance
                 standards are classified as “Retail sales, under 10,000 square feet” in the land
                 use and permit requirement tables. Stores that predominantly sell general
                 merchandise and have grocery sections are classified as “Retail sales, 10,000
                 square feet or greater”.
GYMNASIUM:       A school, place or building used for gymnastics and athletic exercise.
                 Establishments engaged in on-site production of goods by hand involving the use of
HANDICRAFT       hand tools and small-scale equipment (i.e., drills and saws, hammers and chisels;
INDUSTRY:        paint brushes and sprayers; pottery wheels and kilns; sewing machines; spinning
                 wheels, etc.) and the incidental direct sale to consumers of only those goods
                 produced on-site.
HARDSCAPE:       Hardscape includes driveways, pathways, and decks made of materials such as
                 asphalt, concrete, pavers, and decomposed granite.
                 The manufacture and/or processing of materials and goods utilizing large quantities
                 of raw materials, and generally requiring high capitalization and production of
                 large quantities of output. Heavy industry often sells output to other business
HEAVY            users rather than consumers. Characteristics of heavy industry include, but are not
INDUSTRIAL:      limited to, heavy trucking activity, noise, emissions requiring federal or state
                 environmental permits, use of large quantities of hazardous materials as defined
                 the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, and requirement for specialized permits
                 from federal and state occupational health and safety agencies.
HEDGE:           Vegetation, shrubs and/or trees planted to create a physical and/or visual barrier.
                 The maximum allowable height will be measured as the vertical distance from the
HEIGHT, BUILDING existing grade of the site to an imaginary plane located the allowed number of feet
OR STRUCTURE:    above and parallel to the grade not including rooftop appurtenances. See Figure 1 -
                 Building Height Measurement.
 
Figure 1: Building Height Measurement
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3710.png]
 
 
                                An occupation, calling or profession carried on
HOME OCCUPATION:                by an occupant of a dwelling unit, within that
                                dwelling unit, located in a residential zone.
                                A facility providing medical, surgical,
                                psychiatric, or emergency medical services to
                                sick or injured persons, primarily on an
HOSPITAL:                       inpatient basis. This use includes incidental
                                facilities for outpatient treatment, as well as
                                training, research, and administrative services
                                for patients and employees. Excludes
                                sanitariums and residential care facilities.
                                Any building or portion of any building with
                                access provided through a common entrance,
                                lobby or hallway to six (6) or more guestrooms,
HOTEL:                          with or without kitchens, and which rooms are
                                designed, intended to be used or are used,
                                rented or hired out as temporary or overnight
                                accommodations for guests no more than twenty-
                                eight (28) days at a time.
                                Shall mean any domesticated animal commonly
                                maintained in residence with man, but not
HOUSEHOLD PET:                  including any animal which is capable of and
                                inclined to inflict harm or discomfort to or
                                upon any persons.
                                A unit that is no more than five hundred (500)
                                square feet in size and contained entirely
                                within a single-family residence, or a proposed
                                single-family residence. A junior accessory
                                dwelling unit may include an efficiency kitchen
JUNIOR ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT: that is of reasonable size in relation to the
                                size of the junior accessory dwelling unit.
                                Such units may not be sold separately from the
                                primary residence. The property having a junior
                                accessory dwelling unit shall require owner-
                                occupancy.
                                A place where four (4) or more adult dogs or
                                cats or any combination thereof are kept,
                                whether by owners of the animals or persons
KENNEL:                         providing facilities and care therefor, whether
                                or not for compensation. An adult dog or cat is
                                one of either sex, altered or unaltered, that
                                has reached the age of four months.
                                Any room or space within a building designed,
                                intended to be used, or used for the cooking or
KITCHEN:                        the preparation of food. A kitchen includes a
                                single refrigerator, stove or range top, and
                                oven or microwave.
                                A kitchen that includes a sink, range top, and
                                cabinets, but not an oven refrigerator, or
                                dishwasher and which is located directly
KITCHEN, WOK:                   adjacent to the main kitchen and is no larger
                                than fifty percent (50%) the size of the main
                                kitchen. A wok kitchen is not a kitchen for the
                                purposes of determining the existence of an
                                accessory dwelling unit.
                                An outdoor cooking area that features almost
                                all or any of the capabilities of an indoor
KITCHEN, OUTDOORS:              kitchen, centered on the grill. A kitchen
                                located outside a structure is not considered a
                                kitchen for the purposes of determining the
                                existence of an accessory dwelling unit.
LANDSCAPED AREA:                An area upon which landscaping is required to
                                be continuously maintained.
                                The planting and maintenance of some
                                combination of trees, shrubs, vines, ground
                                covers, flowers or lawns. In addition, the
LANDSCAPING:                    combination or design may include natural
                                features such as rock and stone; and structural
                                features, including, but not limited to,
                                fountains, reflecting pools, art works,
                                screens, walls, fences and benches.
                                The manufacture and/or processing of consumer-
                                oriented goods in a manner that does not
                                produce noticeable odors, air emissions, or
                                other environmental effects, and that has
                                limited associated trucking activity. Light
LIGHT INDUSTRIAL:               industries generally require limited amounts of
                                raw materials to produce goods. This includes
                                processing, fabrication, assembly and
                                treatment, but exclude basic industrial
                                processing from raw materials, food processing,
                                and vehicle/equipment services.
                                Light that is directed to areas where it is not
LIGHT POLLUTION:                needed, that interferes with some visual act or
                                is detrimental to an abutting use or zone.
                                A unit that combines a work space and
                                incidental residential occupancy occupied and
                                used by a single household. Live/work units
                                have been constructed for such use or converted
                                from commercial or industrial use and
                                structurally modified to accommodate
                                residential occupancy and work activity in
                                compliance with the California Building Code.
LIVE/WORK UNIT:                 The working space is reserved for and regularly
                                used by one (1) or more occupants of the unit.
                                Living space includes, but is not limited to, a
                                sleeping area, a food preparation area with
                                reasonable work space, and a full bathroom
                                including bathing and sanitary facilities which
                                satisfy the provisions of applicable codes.
                                Live/work units can include renter-occupant
                                and/or owner-occupant.
                                An institution of one (1) patient capacity or
                                more intended primarily for the admission of
LONG TERM FACILITY:             chronic mentally ill, or mentally disordered or
                                other incompetent persons who are provided
                                medical care, nursing services and intensive
                                supervision.
                                A portion of real property as shown as a single
LOT:                            delineated lot with a number or other
                                designation on a plat recorded in the office of
                                the County Recorder.
                                The total area, measured in a horizontal plane,
                                included within the lot lines of a lot. Flood
                                control easements and driveway easements
LOT AREA:                       providing access to tiered or flag lots are not
                                considered as usable lot area for purposes of
                                determining or calculating permitted density,
                                lot coverage, floor area ratio, permeable area,
                                etc.
                                The percentage of a site covered by roofs,
                                soffits or overhangs extending more than three
                                feet (3') from a wall, and by decks more than
LOT COVERAGE:                   four feet (4') in height. Roofs with openings
                                or perforations fifty percent (50%) or greater
                                of their surface area, pools, or hot tubs shall
                                not be included in lot coverage calculations.
LOT DEPTH:                      The horizontal distance measured between the
                                midpoints of the front and rear lot lines.
LOT LINE:                       The boundary between a lot and other property
                                or the public right-of-way.
                                A line separating an interior lot from a
                                street; in the case of a corner lot, the lot
                                line separating the narrowest street frontage
Lot Line, Front:                of the lot from the street; in the case of a
                                lot having no street frontage, the same will
                                mean the narrowest lot line parallel and
                                closest to the nearest street or highway, as
                                determined by the director.
Lot Line, Rear:                 A lot line which is most distant from the front
                                lot line.
Lot Line, Side:                 Any lot boundary line which is not a front or
                                rear lot line.
 
Figure 2: Lot Type Diagram
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3712.png]
 
 
LOT TYPES:     The following lot types are found in the Temple City:
Abutting Lot:  A lot or parcel of land having a common property line or separated by a
               public path or lane, private street, or easement to the subject lot.
               A lot or parcel of land bounded on two (2) or more sides by street lines
Corner Lot:    that have an angle intersection that is not more than one hundred thirty-
               five (135) degrees.
Cul-De-Sac     A lot or parcel of land located on the curving portion of a cul-de-sac
Lot:           street.
               An irregularly shaped lot or parcel of land resembling a flag on a pole,
Flag Lot:      located to the side and/or rear of another lot, with street frontage and
               access from the street to the main body of the lot ("flag" portion)
               provided by a narrow strip of land that is owned in fee ("pole" portion).
Front Lot:     A lot or parcel of land with frontage on a public street that is in front
               of a flag lot or tiered lot.
               A lot or parcel of land bounded on one (1) side by a street line and on all
Interior Lot:  other sides by lot lines between adjacent lots or that is bounded by more
               than one (1) street with an intersection greater than one hundred thirty-
               five (135) degrees.
Irregular Lot: A lot or parcel of land of irregular, rather than rectangular, shape.
Key Lot:       The first interior lot to the rear of a reversed corner lot.
Reverse Corner A corner lot, the rear of which abuts the side of another lot, whether
Lot:           across an alley or not.
Through Lot:   A lot or parcel of land having frontage on two (2) parallel or
               approximately parallel streets, but not a street and an alley.
               A lot or parcel of land without frontage on a public street that receives
Tiered Lot:    vehicular access by way of a private driveway, access easement, or a public
               street that does not meet the city's minimum standards for a street.
               The horizontal distance between the side lot lines measured between two (2)
LOT WIDTH:     points each located on the side lot lines at a distance midway between the
               front and rear lot lines.
               A dwelling unit which is either wholly or mainly manufactured at an off-
MANUFACTURED   site location and is assembled on site on a permanent foundation with
HOUSING UNIT:  permanent service connections. The definition does not include a mobile
               home, mobile accessory structure, or an automobile trailer or recreational
               vehicle.
               A facility where marijuana, cannabis products, or devices for the use of
MARIJUANA      cannabis or cannabis products are offered, either individually or in any
DISPENSARY:    combination, for retail sale, including an establishment that delivers
               cannabis and cannabis products as part of a retail sale.
MATERIAL       An industrial use which collects and processes recyclable materials and
RECYCLING      either packages them for offsite processing in a large-scale operation
PLANT:         (such as a transfer station or materials recovery facility) or processes
               the materials at the same collection location.
               Any facility providing physical health service, or medical, surgical or
MEDICAL AND/OR dental care of the sick or injured, but will not include inpatient or
DENTAL CLINIC: overnight accommodations. Medical clinic includes health center, health
               clinic, doctors' and dentists' office.
               A commercial center consisting of two (2) or more commercial units or
               businesses on a freestanding (self-contained) development site of less than
               sixty-five thousand (65,000) square feet of land area with parking situated
MINI-MALL:     between the building or a portion of the building and the street. For
               purposes of defining a mini mall, a freestanding (self-contained)
               development will consist of any commercial center which does not have
               reciprocal parking and/or reciprocal vehicular access with any other
               abutting or adjoining site.
               A government decision involving little or no personal judgment by the
MINISTERIAL:   public official as to the wisdom or manner of carrying out the action,
               including the issuance of a permit.
               An approach to land use development that involves integrating two (2) or
               more different types of uses on the same property as part of a unified
MIXED USE      development. Generally, Mixed Use Development consists of commercial and
DEVELOPMENT    residential uses integrated either vertically in the same structure or
(MIXED USE     group of structures, or horizontally on the same development site where
PROJECT):      parking, open spaces, and other development features are shared. However,
               light industrial and commercial development may also be considered as Mixed
               Use. In a Mixed-Use Development, both uses are considered primary uses of
               the land.
MOBILE FOOD    A person or business that operates or assists in the operation of a food
VENDOR:        vending vehicle.
MOBILE HOME:   See definition of "Recreational Vehicle".
               Establishments engaged in the provision of service involving the care,
MORTUARIES AND preparation, or disposition of human dead other than in cemeteries. May or
FUNERAL HOMES: may not include crematories. No internment is provided on site. May include
               areas for assembly services and living quarters for funeral home/mortuary
               manager.
               One (1) or more buildings containing guestrooms or dwelling units, with or
               without kitchen facilities, with one (1) or more such guestrooms or units
               each having a separate entrance leading directly from the outside of the
MOTEL:         buildings or from an inner court; which facilities are designed, used or
               intended to be used, rented or hired out for temporary or overnight
               accommodations for guests for no more than twenty-eight (28) days at a
               time.
               The grade at the time of an application being filed or the grade before
NATURAL GRADE: being altered by artificial means such as cut, fill, landscaping, or
               berming.
               The utilization of any lot, structure, building or improvement lawfully
               established and in use prior to the time this chapter, becomes effective,
NONCONFORMING  or having had a nonconforming status under the prior zoning regulations of
USE, BUILDING  city, but which utilization, due to the application of this chapter, or any
OR STRUCTURE:  amendment thereto, does not comply with all of the regulations currently
               applicable to the zone in which the use, lot, building or structure is
               located.
NON-           A commercial operation that is closed to the public but delivers medical
STOREFRONT,    cannabis and, or medical cannabis products as part of retail sale
DELIVERY-ONLY, transactions to customers at fixed locations in accordance with state law.
MEDICAL,       No on-site sales, nor public access to commercial facilities or delivery
CANNABIS       vehicles, is permitted. Non-storefront, delivery-only medical cannabis
RETAIL         retailers must be authorized to engage in the retail sale by delivery of
BUSINESSES:    medicinal cannabis to medicinal cannabis patients pursuant to State
               License: Type M-Type 9, Non-Storefront Retailer.
NURSERY        The same as the definition of "Day Camp or Childcare Center".
SCHOOL:
               Any place or institution which provides bed accommodations for one (1) or
NURSING AND    more chronic or convalescent patients, who, by reason of illness or
CONVALESCENT   physical infirmity, are unable to properly care for themselves. Alcoholics,
HOSPITAL:      drug addicts, persons with mental or communicable diseases, including
               contagious tuberculosis, will not be admitted or cared for in nursing and
               convalescent hospitals.
OATH:          Includes affirmation.
OFFICE:        An establishment offering administrative, financial, general business, non-
               dental, non-medical, professional, public service, and similar office uses.
               Landscape area other than a required front yard area, driveway, swimming
OPEN SPACE:    pool, or off-street parking facility with no building or structure located
               therein. Must have a minimum dimension of ten feet (10').
               Signs or other advertising structure, which solicit public support or
OUTDOOR        directs public attention to the sale, lease, hire, promotion or use of any
ADVERTISING    objects, products, services or functions, which are not produced, sold or
STRUCTURES:    otherwise available on the premises where such sign or structure is
               located.
PARALLEL       A parking space which is situated parallel to the direction of traffic in a
PARKING SPACE: driveway, off street parking facility or street.
PARK:          The standing of a motor vehicle, other than for the purpose of loading or
               unloading merchandise or passengers.
PARKING, JOINT The use of a single parking facility by several related uses occupying the
USE:           same or adjacent parcels. For example, the use of a single parking facility
               by tenants of a shopping center.
               The use of a single parking facility by two (2) distinctly different uses
               with distinctly different hours of operation such that the shared use of
PARKING,       the facility can be accomplished without limiting the ability of one use to
SHARED:        occupy the facility to the detriment of the other. For example, distinctly
               different uses could be a place of religious assembly which generally has
               weekend parking demands and an office development, which typically uses the
               parking facility during the week.
PARKING SPACE: A readily accessible area, not including driveways, ramps, loading or work
               areas, maintained exclusively for the parking of one (1) automobile.
               That portion of the public right-of-way between the curb and sidewalk or,
PARKWAY:       where no sidewalk is provided, between the curb and adjacent private
               property line. A parkway generally includes landscape improvements.
PERMEABLE      A surface where the surfacing material itself is impermeable to the inflow
SURFACES:      of rainwater, but the surface has inlets or holes through it which water
               enters the soil or construction below.
               A window on an elevation facing the front yard that is larger than the
               adjacent windows or the largest window on the front facing façade. Picture
               windows either have less panes of glass than the adjacent windows or do not
PICTURE        have any muntins. Examples of a picture window include:
WINDOW:        [https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
               IMAGES/0-0-0-4045.png]
                
               [https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
               IMAGES/0-0-0-4047.png]
               An area of land, controlled by a landowner, to be developed as a unified
PLANNED        project and single entity for a group of townhouse dwellings and/or
DEVELOPMENT:   detached dwelling units, the plan for which may not correspond in lot size,
               bulk or type of dwelling, density, lot coverage, setback or required open
               space to the regulations in this code.
PLANNING       The Planning Commission of the City of Temple City, also referred to as
COMMISSION:    commission or Commission.
               An accessory structure open on three (3) sides and attached to the side or
               front of a building through which cars pass and is established for the
PORTE-COCHERE: convenient loading and unloading of passengers from an automobile. A porte-
               cochere is not a carport or garage, nor may it be used to satisfy off-
               street parking requirements.
PRIMARY USE:   The principal or predominant use of any lot, building, or structure.
               When used in reference to a commercial or industrial use, one (1) or more
PROCESSING:    acts or operations which have the effect of changing the form of a product
               or material, to render the same more salable or usable.
PUBLIC         A site or structure owned and operated by the City of Temple City, or other
FACILITY:      public agencies, for the purpose of providing one or more services to
               residents of the city, and/or to support other city functions.
               Any place on a lot or parcel of land where dirt, soil, sand, gravel, rock
               or other similar material is removed by excavation or otherwise, for any
               purpose. Quarry will not include the excavation and removal of earth from a
QUARRY:        lot preparatory to construction of a building or structure, for which a
               valid building or grading permit has been issued by city; provided that
               such excavation will be confined to that necessary for such construction or
               otherwise authorized by such permit.
RECHARGING     A location that supplies electricity for the recharging of electric
STATION:       vehicles (including plug-in hybrids).
RECORDER:      The Los Angeles County Registrar-Recorder/County Clerk.
               A motor home, travel trailer, truck camper, camping trailer, pop-up
RECREATIONAL   campers, or boat or other water sport vehicle, with or without motive
VEHICLE (RV):  power, designed for recreational purposes. The definition includes any
               empty trailer on which an RV may be transported or stored. In no cases will
               a RV be classified as a mobile home or dwelling unit.
REPAIR:        The work necessary to restore to a usable condition.
               Establishments engaged in industrial or scientific research, including
RESEARCH AND   product testing. Includes electronic research firms or pharmaceutical
DEVELOPMENT:   research laboratories. Excludes manufacturing, except of prototypes, or
               medical testing and analysis.
               A structure containing one (1) dwelling unit. "Residence, Single-Family"
RESIDENCE,     will also include a modular home manufactured and certified under the
SINGLE-FAMILY: National Mobilehome Construction and Safety Standard Act of 1974 on a
               permanent foundation system approved by the County Engineer.
REST HOME:     The same as the definition of “Nursing and Convalescent Hospital.”
               An establishment involving retail sales of new merchandise to the general
RETAIL:        public. The establishment is not allowed to have more than twenty five
               percent (25%) of the total floor area to be used for manufacturing or
               processing.
               An automated mechanical device which accepts at least one (1) or more types
               of empty beverage containers including aluminum cans, glass, and plastic
               bottles, and issues a cash refund or a redeemable credit slip with a value
               not less than the container's redemption value as determined by state law.
               A reverse vending machine may sort and process containers mechanically
REVERSE        provided that the entire process is enclosed within the machine. To accept
VENDING        and temporarily store all container types in a proportion commensurate with
MACHINE:       their relative redemption rates, and to meet the requirements of
               certification as a recycling facility, multiple grouping of reverse vending
               machines may be necessary, in which case the machines are considered a
               collection facility. A reverse vending machine is considered an accessory
               to a primary use. Reverse vending machines are no greater than fifty (50)
               square feet in size and eight (8) feet in height. Larger facilities are
               considered a collection facility.
               A strip of land acquired by reservation, dedication, forced dedication,
RIGHT-OF-WAY:  prescription or condemnation and intended to be occupied or occupied by a
               road, railroad, electric transmission lines, oil or gas pipeline, water
               line, sanitary storm sewer or other similar use.
SEASONAL       Temporary retail sale of seasonal merchandise. Examples include farm
SALES:         produce stands, Christmas tree sales lots, and pumpkin patches.
               The distance from which a structure, parking area or other development
               feature will be separated from a prescribed property line, easement or
               other structure or development feature. All setback distances will be
SETBACKS:      measured at right angles from the property line, easement or other
               structure or development feature, and the setback line will be drawn
               parallel to the designated property line, easement or other structure or
               development feature at the requested setback distance.
SETBACK,       The minimum distance required between a structure and the front property
FRONT:         line.
SETBACK, REAR: The minimum distance required between a structure and the rear property
               line.
SETBACK, SIDE: The minimum distance required between a structure and a side property line.
               A group of two (2) or more contiguous or adjacent retail commercial
SHOPPING       business establishments planned, developed, owned or managed as a single
CENTER:        unit. See definition of "Mini-Mall" for any freestanding (self-contained)
               development site of less than sixty-five thousand (65,000) square feet of
               land area.
               A use in which a dwelling, or portion thereof, is rented or offered for
               rent for compensation for a period of less than twenty-eight (28)
               consecutive calendar days. This includes any arrangement in which the
               rental period is less than twenty-eight (28) consecutive days or can be
SHORT TERM     reduced below twenty-eight (28) consecutive days, or in which the dwelling
RENTAL:        is rented multiple times within twenty-eight (28) consecutive days. This
               definition does not apply to residential care facilities or dwellings
               operated as a group home pursuant to the Community Care Facilities Act that
               are otherwise exempt from local zoning regulations. This includes the
               advertising of a short-term rental.
               Any device for visual communication, including any announcement,
SIGN:          declaration, demonstration, display, illustration or insignia, which is
               used to advertise or promote the products or services of any person,
               business group or enterprise available on the lot where located.
               Any building containing five (5) or more guestrooms or units which are
               used, rented, or hired out to be occupied for sleeping purposes by
SINGLE ROOM    residents, and which is also the primary residence of those residents. The
OCCUPANCY      individual units may lack either cooking facilities or a full bathroom, or
(SRO)          both. However, for purposes of this definition, a SRO does not include
BUILDING:      residential care homes, senior housing projects, rooming and boarding
               houses, hotels and motels, bed and breakfast lodging, extended care
               facilities or hospitals.
STATE:         The State of California.
STORAGE -      The storage of various materials outside of a structure other than fencing,
OUTDOOR:       either as an accessory or primary use.
               A structure containing a separate storage space that is designed to be
               leased or rented individually. Indoor storage will mean that access to all
STORAGE -      storage spaces will be from common interior corridors, and the facility has
PERSONAL:      only shared loading areas. This use does not include outdoor storage of any
               kind. Further, such storage does not involve any manufacturing, office or
               business services, or human habitation in any storage space or anywhere on
               site. Also known as mini-storage.
               That portion of a building including between the upper surface of any floor
               and the upper surface of the floor next above, except that the topmost
STORY:         story will be that portion of a building included between the upper surface
               of the topmost floor and the ceiling or roof above. "Story" includes a
               basement.
               A public or private way, other than a major highway, secondary highway or
STREET:        alley, permanently reserved as a means of vehicular access to an adjoining
               property.
STRUCTURE:     Anything constructed or erected, which requires a fixed location on the
               ground, or is attached to something having a fixed location on the ground.
               Small-scale instructional facilities or a small practice space for the
               individual artist, musician, or any individual practitioner of the
               activities defined here, typically accommodating one group of students at a
               time, in no more than one (1) instructional space. Examples include:
STUDIO - ART   individual and group instruction and training in the arts, production
AND MUSIC:     rehearsal, photography and the processing of photographs produced only by
               users of the studio facilities. Also includes production studios for
               individual filmmakers, musicians, painters, sculptors, photographers, and
               other artists. These uses may also include accessory retail sales of
               products related to the services provided. Does not include dance, yoga,
               gymnastics, and martial arts studios.
               The division of a tract of land, shown on the latest equalized county
               assessment roll as a unit or as continuous units, into defined lots, either
               improved or unimproved, which can be separately conveyed by sale, lease, or
SUBDIVISION:   financing, and which can be altered or developed. The process often
               includes setting aside land for streets, sidewalks, parks, public areas,
               and other infrastructure needs, including the designation of the location
               of utilities.
               Housing with no limit on the length of stay and that is occupied by persons
               from the target population as defined by Health and Safety Code section
               50675.14(b)(2) as the same may be amended from time to time, and that
               provides a significant level of on site and off site services that assist
SUPPORTIVE     the supportive housing residents in retaining the housing, improving their
HOUSING:       health status and maximizing their ability to live, and when possible, to
               work in the community. Supportive housing may be provided under all
               residential housing types. In all cases, supportive housing will be treated
               as a residential use under this chapter and will be subject only to those
               restrictions that apply to other residential uses of the same residential
               housing type located in the same zoning district.
TEMPORARY USE: A use of land that is designed, operated, and occupies a site for a limited
               period.
TOWNHOME       Townhomes are multi-family dwellings that are attached along common walls,
(TOWNHOUSE):   where an individual unit occupies the space from the ground to the roof
               (units cannot be stacked).
               Housing operated under program requirements that call for: a) the
               termination of assistance to an existing program recipient occupying a
               transitional housing unit and b) the subsequent reassignment of the
               assisting residential unit to another eligible program recipient at some
               predetermined future point in time that will be no less than six (6) months
TRANSITIONAL   into the future. Transitional housing services may include, but not be
HOUSING:       limited to, meals, counseling, and other services as well as common areas
               for residents. Transitional housing may be provided under all residential
               housing types. In all cases, transitional housing will be treated as a
               residential use under this chapter and will be subject only to those
               restrictions that apply to other residential uses of the same residential
               housing type located in the same zoning district.
TRANSITIONAL   A geometric plane that establishes the maximum permitted height of a
HEIGHT PLANE:  building in a district that allows a greater density or height than that of
               an adjoining lower-density residential district.
TRIPLEX:       The same as the definition of a three (3)-family dwelling.
               Unstaffed drop-off boxes, containers, receptacles, or similar facilities
UNATTENDED     that accept textiles, shoes, books, household goods, recyclable materials,
COLLECTION     and/or other salvageable personal property items. This does not include
BOXES (UCBS):  garbage bins, library book drops, postal or parcel boxes for public and
               private carriers, or the like.
               A space occupied by a business enterprise(s) located within a building or
               portion of a building with direct access from the accessway intended for
UNIT,          use by the general public. A commercial or manufacturing unit will have the
COMMERCIAL AND following features: a completely enclosed room or interconnecting rooms
MANUFACTURING: with lockable doors to common accessways or the exterior, full walls from
               the floor to the ceiling, independent cooling and ventilation controls,
               independent lighting which is controlled within the unit itself.
               The construction, maintenance and operation of any combination of two (2)
UNIT           or more permitted uses, buildings and structures, based on a comprehensive
DEVELOPMENT:   and complete design or plan treating the entire complex of land, buildings,
               structures and uses as a single project.
URBAN          Dwelling units established in accordance with Section 65852.21 of the
DWELLINGS:     Government Code and Section
               9-1T-21 of the Temple City Municipal Code.
USE:           The utilization of a lot, building, structure, or any other improvement
               upon a lot, or any combination thereof.
               All lines and facilities owned and/or operated by a licensed provider and
UTILITY        related to the provision, distribution, collection, transmission, or
STRUCTURES AND disposal of water, storm drainage, sanitary sewage, oil, gas, electricity,
SERVICE        information, telecommunications, telephone cable, and similar services.
FACILITIES:    Includes facilities for the generation of electricity. Does not include
               "Communications Facilities" or "Wireless Telecommunications Facilities."
               A modification of the specific regulations of this code granted by the
               legislative body in accordance with the terms of this code for the purpose
VARIANCE:      of assuring that no property, because of special circumstances applicable
               to it, will be deprived of privileges commonly enjoyed by other properties
               in the same vicinity and zone.
               Means and includes motorcycles, motor driven cycle, motor truck, passenger
VEHICLE:       vehicle, station wagon, truck tractor, trailer, and vehicle, as these
               phrases are defined in the Vehicle Code of the State of California, and all
               similar types of vehicles.
               Rental of automobiles, construction equipment, motorcycles, drones, mopeds,
VEHICLE        motorized scooters, recreational vehicles, trucks, and similar vehicles and
RENTALS:       equipment powered by a motor, including on-site storage and incidental
               maintenance that does not require pneumatic lifts.
VEHICLE        The repair of motor vehicles in an enclosed building, including the repair
REPAIR:        or replacement of engines and transmissions, body and fender repair, and
               the installation of nonfactory-installed products.
               Sale of automobiles, motorcycles, recreational vehicles, trucks, and
VEHICLE SALES: similar vehicles and equipment, including display, storage, maintenance,
               repair, and incidental rental of the vehicles and equipment. May include
               the sale, installation, and servicing of related equipment and parts.
VENDING        An automated mechanical device which ejects consumer products including but
MACHINE:       not limited to snack food items, non-alcoholic beverages, electronic
               devices, and movies, and that accepts cash, debit, and/or credit.
WALL:          A physical barrier constructed largely of masonry, brick, concrete, stucco,
               concrete block, or any combination thereof and intended to mark a boundary.
WALL,          A wall not laterally supported at the top that resists lateral soil load
RETAINING:     and other imposed loads.
               An establishment engaged in providing facilities for the storage of
WAREHOUSE OR   furniture, household goods, products, or other commercial goods of any
WAREHOUSING:   nature. Includes cold storage. Does not include personal storage facilities
               offered for rent or lease to the general public; or warehouse facilities in
               which the primary purpose of storage is for wholesaling ("Wholesaling").
WATER-         Landscaping materials that are designed and maintained to function in a
EFFICIENT      healthful and visually pleasing manner with limited water use, including
LANDSCAPE:     plants which have minimal water requirements for subsistence, plants native
               to hot/dry environments, and xeriscape plants.
WHOLESALING:   The sale of commercial goods at or near production cost.
               An area upon a lot or parcel of land, other than a court or open space,
YARD:          required as a front, side or rear yard, which will be maintained unoccupied
               and unobstructed from the ground upward; provided that encroachment will be
               permitted in yards only as expressly authorized by this article.
               A yard extending across the front of a lot, from the front property line to
Yard, Front:   the dwelling on the property. The depth of a front yard will be a specified
               horizontal distance measured between the front lot line and a line parallel
               thereto, on the lot.
               A yard extending along an interior side of a lot, from the front property
Yard, Interior line to the rear lot line. The depth of an interior side yard will be a
Side:          specified horizontal distance measured inward from the interior side lot
               line.
               A yard extending across the rear of a lot for its full width between side
Yard, Rear:    lot lines. The depth of a rear yard will be a specified horizontal distance
               measured between the rear lot line and a line parallel thereto, on the lot.
               A yard extending along the street side of a corner lot from the front lot
Yard, Street   line to the rear lot line. The depth of a street side yard will be a
Side:          specified horizontal distance measured inward from the street side lot
               line.
Yard Sales:    The temporary sale of goods, wares or merchandise from a residential
               property principally used as a residence.
               Any of the residential, commercial, industrial, special-purpose, or overlay
               districts established in the zoning code, within which certain land uses
ZONE:          are allowed or prohibited, and certain site planning and development
               standards are established.  (Ord. 19-1036; amd. Ord. 20-1040U; Ord. 20-
               1047; Ord. 20-1048; Ord. 1055; Ord. 21-1059; Ord. 23-1069; Ord. 25-1081 U)
 
ARTICLE B. ZONING ESTABLISHED AND ZONING MAP
SECTION:
9-1B-1: Establishment Of Zones
9-1B-2: Zoning Map Adopted By Reference
9-1B-3: Rights-Of-Way And Vacated Boundary Lines
9-1B-4: Uncertainty Of Boundaries
9-1B-5: Classification Of Annexed Lands
9-1B-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONES:
A.   General: The city is divided into various zones to allow for orderly,
planned development and to implement the General Plan.
Table 9-1B-1 identifies all zones. All zones will be listed and appropriately
designated on the official Zoning Map.
B.   Base Zone: Every parcel must have a base zone that establishes the primary
type and intensity of land use permitted along with development regulations for
that type and intensity of land use.
C.   Special Use Zone: A special use (or overlay) zone supplements the base
zone for the purpose of establishing special uses or development regulations
for an area in addition to the provisions of the underlying base zone. In the
event a conflict arises between the base zone regulations and the overlay zone
regulations, the provisions of the overlay zone will apply.
 
Table 9-1B-1
Zones Implementing the General Plan
Zoning Map Symbol Zone Description             Corresponding General Plan Land
                                               Use Designation
Residential Zones
R-1               Low-Density Residential      Low-Density Residential (RL)
R-2               Medium-Density Residential   Medium-Density Residential (RM)
R-3               High-Density Residential     High-Density Residential (RH)
Commercial Zones
NC                Neighborhood Commercial      Commercial (C)
DC                Downtown Commercial          Commercial (C)
LTC               Las Tunas Commercial         Commercial (C)
Mixed Use Zones
MU-L              Mixed-Use Low                Mixed-Use (MU)
MU-M              Mixed-Use Medium             Mixed-Use (MU)
Manufacturing Zone
I                 Industrial                   Industrial (IL)
Institutional and Open Space Zone 
I/OS              Institutional and Open Space Institutional (I), Parks (P),
                                               Open Space (OS)
Special Use Zones
                                               All Residential designations,
PD                Planned Development          Commercial, Industrial,
                                               Institutional, Mixed-Use, Mixed-
                                               Use - Specific Plan
 
(Ord. 19-1036)
9-1B-2: ZONING MAP ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
This Zoning Code, together with the Zoning Map, is hereby adopted in compliance
with current state planning, zoning, and development laws. Changes in the
boundaries of any identified zones will be made by ordinance. The boundaries,
designations, and locations of the zones established by this Zoning Code will
be shown upon the map(s) entitled "Zoning Map for the City of Temple City" and
referred to in this Zoning Code as the Zoning Map. (Ord. 19-1036)
9-1B-3:    RIGHTS-OF-WAY AND VACATED BOUNDARY LINES:
Where a public street or alley is officially vacated, the property areas
associated with the vacated street or alley will be included within the zone or
zones of the adjoining properties. If the adjoining properties are in different
zones, the boundary lines will be the centerline of the former street or alley
and the extension of the side yard lines of the abutting properties. In the
event such street, alley, or right-of-way was a boundary between two (2) or
more different zones, the new zone or zone boundary will be the property line
that is created by the vacation. (Ord. 19-1036)
9-1B-4: UNCERTAINTY OF BOUNDARIES:
A.   Determination of Boundaries: If there is uncertainty about the location of
a zone boundary shown on the official Zoning Map, the director will determine
the location of the boundary in the following manner:
   1.   Where a zone or area boundary approximately follows a parcel line,
street line, or alley line, the parcel line, street centerline, or alley
centerline will be construed as the zone boundary.
   2.   Where a zone or area boundary divides a parcel and the boundary line
location is not specified by distances indicated on the subject map, the
location of the boundary will be determined by using the scale appearing on the
map. (Ord. 19-1036)
9-1B-5: CLASSIFICATION OF ANNEXED LANDS:
A.   Annexed Land Classification Requirements:
   1.   Any land annexed to the City of Temple City will be deemed to be zoned
under such classification under this Zoning Code as is most nearly the
equivalent zoning classification or General Plan land use designation of the
City of Temple City.
   2.   Whenever it is deemed that the zoning of annexed lands is inconsistent
with adopted General Plan land use policy or other city policies, the Planning
Commission may recommend and the council may adopt the zone classifications
which will apply to the annexed lands in the manner prescribed in Article C
amending this Zoning Code. (Ord. 19-1036)
ARTICLE C. ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
9-1C-1: City Council
9-1C-2: Planning Commission
9-1C-3: Director Of Community Development Department
9-1C-4: Planning Division Staff
9-1C-5: General Procedures
9-1C-6: Specific Procedures
9-1C-7: Enforcement
9-1C-1: CITY COUNCIL:
The city council is the legislative body of the city of Temple City, with all
those powers granted by the state and the city charter. In the context of this
Zoning Code, the city council has the authority to hear appeals and make
decisions on those types of applications shown as city council responsibilities
in
Table 9-1C-6-1 Summary of Development Review Procedures. (Ord. 19-1036)
9-1C-2: PLANNING COMMISSION:
A.   Creation: Pursuant to Article XI of the Charter of the City of Temple
City, a planning commission (commission) for the City of Temple City is hereby
created.
B.   Membership and Terms:
   1.   Commission Members: The planning commission of this city must consist
of five (5) members appointed for two (2)-year terms who must be residents and
qualified electors of the city at the time of their appointment to office and
during their entire period of service on the commission. Members must be
appointed as set forth in section 1103 of the charter of the city of Temple
City.
   2.   Chairperson: The commission must elect its chairperson from among its
appointed members for a term of one (1) year.
C.   Meetings and Proceedings:
   1.   Rules and Regulations: The rules and regulations adopted by the
commission and "Rosenberg's Rules of Order", where not inconsistent with said
rules and regulations, will govern all meetings of the commission.
   2.   Regular and Special Meetings: Regular meetings will be as provided for
by resolution of the commission and approved by the city council. The
commission will hold at least one (1) regular meeting in each month, as
business requires. Special meetings will be called in the manner specified in
the Government Code of the State of California (Government Code) for the
calling of special meetings of commissions and boards. A majority of the
regular members will constitute a quorum. Less than a quorum may adjourn any
meeting.
   3.   Absence from Meetings: If a member of the commission is absent from
three successive regular meetings of said commission, without cause, the office
of such member will be deemed to be vacant and the term of such member
terminated and the commission will immediately inform the city council of such
vacancy.
   4.   Absence for Cause: Where a member of the commission is absent due to
illness or unavoidable absence from the city, and gives notice thereof to the
secretary of the commission on or before the day of any regular meeting by said
commission the same will be deemed an absence for cause.
   5.   Records: The commission must keep a record of all business, minutes,
transactions, findings, determinations, correspondence, and other matters
coming before it. Such records must be maintained as are public records of
other bodies and agencies. Minutes of the commission will be filed with the
city clerk.
D.   Duties and Authority: The commission must perform the duties and will have
all the rights, powers and privileges specified and provided for in this zoning
code or by state law including the authority to hear appeals and make decisions
on those types of applications shown as planning commission responsibilities in
Table 9-1C-6-1 Summary of Development Review Procedures. (Ord. 19-1036)
9-1C-3: DIRECTOR OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT:
The Director of the Community Development Department (director) has the overall
responsibility for the decisions of the planning division staff. The director,
or designee, will make recommendations and decisions as indicated in
Table 9-1C-6-1 Summary of Development Review Procedures. (Ord. 19-1036)
9-1C-4: PLANNING DIVISION STAFF:
Planning division staff is responsible for the day-to-day administration of
this zoning code, unless this Zoning Code states that another individual,
department, or body has a specific responsibility. (Ord. 19-1036)
9-1C-5: GENERAL PROCEDURES:
This section describes the common procedural steps and other rules that
generally apply to development applications reviewed under this Zoning Code,
unless otherwise expressly exempted or alternative procedures are specified in
Table 9-1C-6-1 Summary of Development Review Procedures.
A.   Pre-application Meeting:
A pre-application meeting is an informal discussion between a potential
applicant and planning division staff regarding a possible project subject to
this Zoning Code. The purpose of the pre-application meeting is to inform a
potential applicant of the city requirements as they apply to the proposed
project, inform the potential applicant of the city's review process, and
identify information and materials required in the application. The meeting
will be conducted between planning division staff and a project applicant for
the following projects:
   1.   Projects requiring city council approval;
   2.   Major site plan reviews approved by the planning commission; and
   3.   Projects requesting a pre-application meetings by an applicant.
B.   Application:
   1.   Application Filing: Unless otherwise expressly stated in this Zoning
Code, all applications must be filed with the planning division, on forms
furnished by the planning division, and must include a list of all application
materials, information, and fees for that type of project, permit, or approval
on the respective application form.
   2.   Review for Completeness:
      a.   Initial Review: The planning division will review each application
for completeness and accuracy before it is accepted as being complete and
officially filed.
      b.   Basis for Determination: The planning division's determination of
completeness will be based on the city's list of required application materials
and any additional written instructions provided to the applicant in a pre-
application meeting, if such pre-application meeting has been held.
      c.   Notification of Applicant: Within thirty (30) calendar days of
filing an application, the planning division will inform the applicant, in
writing, whether the application is complete and has been accepted for
processing, or whether the application is incomplete and additional information
is required.
      d.   Appeal of Determination: The applicant may appeal the planning
division's determination, that the application is incomplete or that the
additional information requested by the planning division is not required, to
the planning commission in compliance with section 9-1C-G Appeals.
      e.   Referral of Application: An application may be referred to those
city departments, contract departments, service providers, and review agencies
potentially affected by the application for review and comment per the
director's discretion.
   3.   Inactive Application: If an applicant does not respond to a complete
letter, incomplete letter, comment letter, or other correspondence requesting
revisions or additional material within ninety (90) days the city will send a
letter to the applicant notifying them that if materials responsive to the
previously mentioned correspondence are not submitted within thirty (30) days,
the application will be deemed inactive. The application will be
administratively withdrawn on the thirty-first (31st) day if no responsive
materials are submitted.
   4.   Withdrawal of Application: Any applicant may withdraw an application or
an appeal, prior to a decision thereon, by filing a written request to do so;
refunds may be issued at the discretion of the Community Development Director
based on the amount of work completed on the application or an appeal at the
time the written request is submitted.
   5.   Environmental Information: After the planning division has accepted an
application as complete, the division may require the applicant to submit
additional information for the environmental review of the project in
compliance with the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) to determine if
the findings can be made.
   6.   Environmental Review:
      a.   CEQA review: After acceptance of a complete application, the
planning division will review the project in compliance with CEQA to determine
whether the project is exempt from CEQA, or the extent of environmental review
required for the project. These determinations and, where required, the
preparation of appropriate environmental documents must comply with CEQA and
any adopted CEQA guidelines.
      b.   Special Studies Required: Special studies, prepared by the city's
consultant and paid for in advance by the applicant, may be required to
supplement the city's CEQA review.
   7.   Successive Applications: No application may be resubmitted for the same
or substantially the same variance, permit, modification, or other application
which had previously been denied by the director, planning commission, or the
city council within the previous twelve (12) months.
   8.   Multiple Construction Projects: Multiple construction projects within
any twenty-four (24) month period will be considered a single construction
project.
C.   Neighborhood Meeting:
   1.   Applicability: The following types of applications require at least one
(1) neighborhood meeting, open to the public, at the project site, an alternate
location within a mile radius of the site (i.e. coffee shop, community center,
etc.), or at city-owned location for a fee at a time convenient for interested
residents to attend. The applicant must confer with planning division staff
prior to selecting a meeting time and location.
      a.   Zoning Map Amendment.
      b.   General Plan Amendment.
      c.   Non-residential structures greater than twenty-five thousand
(25,000) square feet in size.
      d.   Residential projects with more than twenty-five (25) units.
      e.   Any project requiring an Environmental Impact Report (EIR).
   2.   Meeting Content: The applicant must provide general information on the
proposed project including but not limited to the following:
      a.   A general description, orally, in text, and/or by diagram of the
project.
      b.   A description of the location of the real property on which the
project will be located.
      c.   Any entitlements being sought by the applicant.
      d.   Any amendments to this Zoning Code, the General Plan, or applicable
specific plan associated with the project.
   3.   Notice: Notice for a public hearing must occur in compliance with
section
9-1C-5-E Notice.
   4.   Proof of Meeting: Prior to the scheduling of a public hearing, the
applicant must provide to the director proof that the meeting occurred,
including a sign-in sheet of attendance, notes from the meeting, and meeting
location, date, and time.
D.   Public Hearings:
      1.   Applicability: Public hearings will be held for those types of
applications where
Table 9-1C-6-1 Summary of Development Review Procedures requires a public
hearing.
      2.   Proceedings: Public hearings before the planning commission and
public hearings before the city council on matters related to this Zoning Code
will be conducted pursuant to rules and practices established by each of those
bodies and in compliance with state law. Public hearings before the director
will be conducted at a date, time, and location determined by the director, in
compliance with state law. All public hearings before the planning commission,
city council, or director must be open to the public.
      3.   Notice: Notice of a public hearing must be given pursuant to section
9-1C-5-E Notice.
      4.   Recommendations: Following a public hearing resulting in a
recommendation to another hearing body, the recommendations will be forwarded
to the other hearing body. A copy of the staff report to the other hearing body
with the recommendation will be forwarded to the applicant.
      5.   Decision and Notice: Following a final decision, the decision
authority will provide notice of the final action to the applicant and any
person who specifically requested notice of final action. Notice of the final
action will contain applicable findings, conditions of approval, reporting and
monitoring requirements, and the procedure for appeal of the decision.
E.   Notice:
   1.   Content of Notice: Notice of a public hearing must include all the
following information:
      a.   Information pertaining to the hearing, including:
         (1)   The date, time, and place of the hearing.
         (2)   The name of the hearing body or director.
         (3)   The phone number, email address, and street address of the
planning division where an interested person could call or visit to obtain
additional information.
      b.   Information pertaining to the project, including:
         (1)   The name of the applicant.
         (2)   The city's file or project number assigned to the project.
         (3)   A general explanation of the matter to be considered.
         (4)   A general description, in text or by diagram, of the location of
the real property, if any, that is subject of the hearing.
      c.   Statement on Environmental Document: The hearing notice must state
that the hearing body will consider approval of the CEQA determination or
document prepared for the proposed project.
   2.   Method of Noticing:
      a.   Mailing: Notice must be given by United States mail, postage
prepaid, at least fourteen (14) and up to thirty (30) days in advance of a
scheduled hearing to the following recipients:
         (1)   The owners of the subject property as shown on the latest
equalized assessment roll or the owner's authorized agent, and the project
applicant, if not the owner.
         (2)   All local agencies expected to provide water, sewage, streets,
roads, schools, or other essential facilities or services to the project, whose
ability to provide those facilities and services may be significantly affected.
         (3)   All owners of real property as shown on the latest equalized
assessment roll located within three hundred (300) feet from the external
boundaries of the real property that is the subject of the hearing. The list of
the names of the property owners who own property within the notice mailing
radius must be provided by the applicant. If the number of property owners to
whom notice would be mailed or delivered to is greater than one thousand
(1,000), in lieu of mailed or delivered notice, notice may be given by
newspaper publication.
         (4)   Any other person who has filed a written request for notice with
the planning division, or whose property, in the judgement of the planning
division may be affected by the proposed project.
      b.   On-Site Notice: The applicant will post a sign, provided by the
planning division, of at least thirty (30) inches by twenty-four (24) inches on
each street face of the real property that is the subject of the hearing. The
content of the sign must include the project and hearing information required
by section
9-1C-5-E-1 Content of Notice. The applicant must provide the director with a
date-stamped photo as proof of on-site notice.
      c.   Newspaper Publication: If on-site notice is not feasible, notice of
public hearing must be published by placing a display of at least one- eighth
(1/8) of a page in size in at least one (1) newspaper of general circulation at
least fourteen (14) days in advance of the hearing.
      d.   City Website: Notice of a public hearing will be posted on the
city's website no less than fourteen (14) days in advance of the hearing.
F.   Request for Review:
   1.   Eligibility: The following city officials may file with the city clerk
a request for review (RFR) of any decision made by the planning commission:
      a.   Any council person.
      b.   The city manager.
      c.   The city attorney.
   2.   Timing: Such RFR must be filed within fourteen (14) days of the
decision by the planning commission, as a no fee filing, together with a
statement that such RFR is not indicating support for or opposition to such
decision, but is filed because the filer believes that such decision involves a
matter of such interest, import, precedent or significance that such decision
should as a matter of policy and planning be made by the city council.
   3.   Effect of RFR: Upon the timely filing of an RFR, the decision of the
planning commission will be suspended until the RFR is determined by the city
council; and the city clerk will immediately notify the council, planning
commission, applicant and all who appeared at the planning commission meetings
with regard thereto and set the matter for hearing before the city council for
final determination.
   4.   Procedure: The procedures of an RFR will be the same as those for an
appeal under section
9-1C-5-G Appeals.
G.   Appeals:
   1.   Review Authority: Unless stated otherwise in this code, appeals of
decisions of the director must be made to the planning commission and appeals
of decisions of the planning commission must be made to the city council.
   2.   Eligibility: Appeals may be initiated by the applicant or any person
aggrieved by the decision of the planning commission or the director.
   3.   Timing: An appeal must be filed within fifteen (15) calendar days
following the date the decision was rendered, unless a longer appeal period is
specified as part of the project approval. In the event the completion of the
appeal period falls on a weekend or holiday, the decision will become effective
after 5:00 p.m. on the first business day following the completion of the
appeal period.
   4.   Form and Fees: An appeal must be submitted in writing on an official
city appeal form together with all required fees.
   5.   Effect of Appeal: Once an appeal is filed, any action on the associated
project is suspended until the appeal is processed and a final decision is
rendered by the review authority.
   6.   Procedure:
      a.   Report and Scheduling of Hearing: When an appeal has been filed, the
director must prepare a report on the matter, including all the application
materials in question, and schedule the matter for a public hearing by the
appropriate review authority within ninety (90) days of receiving the appeal.
      b.   Notice: Notice of the appeal hearing must be provided and the
hearing must be conducted pursuant to section
9-1C-5-D Public Hearings.
      c.   Scope of Review and Decision: During the appeal hearing, the review
authority may act on any aspect of the appealed project (de novo review). The
review authority will make its own decision based upon findings of fact
applicable to the case. The findings will identify the reasons for the action
on the appeal and verify the compliance of the subject of the appeal with this
Zoning Code.
      d.   The review authority's decision may:
         (1)   Affirm, affirm in part, or reverse the action that is the
subject of the appeal.
         (2)   Adopt additional conditions of approval that address the matter
appealed.
         (3)   Remand the appeal for further review, recommendation, or action
to the previous review authority.
         (4)   A matter being heard on appeal may be continued for good cause
(e.g. additional California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) review is
required).
         (5)   If the hearing body is unable to reach a decision on the matter
appealed, the decision of the previous review authority will remain in effect.
   7.   Effective Date of Appeal Decision:
      a.   City Council's Decision: A decision of the city council on an appeal
is final and will be effective on the date the decision is rendered.
      b.   Other Decisions: A decision of the planning commission is final and
effective after 5:00 p.m. fifteen (15) calendar days following the date the
decision is rendered, when no appeal to the decision or RFR has been filed in
compliance with this code. In the event the completion of the appeal period
falls on a weekend or holiday, the decision will become effective after 5:00
p.m. on the first business day following the completion of the appeal period.
   8.   Judicial Review: No person may seek judicial review of a city decision
on a permit or other matter in compliance with this zoning code until all
appeals to the planning commission and city council have been first exhausted
in compliance with this Zoning Code.
H.   Post Decision Procedures:
   1.   Effective Date of Decision:
      a.   City Council: A decision of the city council is final and will be
effective on the date the decision is rendered.
      b.   Planning Commission and Director: A decision of the planning
commission or the director is final and will be effective after 5:00 p.m. on
the fifteenth (15th) day following the date the decision is rendered, when no
appeal to the decision has been filed.
   2.   Issuance of Permits: Permits will not be issued until the effective
date, provided that no appeal of the decision body has been filed in compliance
with section
9-1C-5-G Appeals.
   3.   Compliance to Approved Plan or Permit: All work performed under an
approved plan or permit must comply with the approved drawings and plans or
permit and any conditions of approval imposed by the decision authority.
   4.   Performance Guarantees:
      a.   Security Required: The director may require an applicant to provide
adequate security to guarantee the proper completion of any approved plan or
permit and compliance with any conditions of approval.
      b.   Form of Security: The security must be in the form of cash, a
certified or cashier's check, or a performance bond executed by the applicant
and a corporate surety authorized to do business in California and approved by
the city.
      c.   Amount of Security: The director will determine the amount of the
security necessary to ensure proper completion of the approved plan or
compliance with any conditions of approval.
      d.   Duration of Security: The security must remain in effect until all
work has been completed according to the approved plans or permit and
conditions fulfilled to the satisfaction of the director or until a specified
warranty period has elapsed.
      e.   Release of Security: The security deposit will be released upon
completion of work in compliance with the approved plan or permit and any
conditions of approval. The city may maintain twenty-five percent (25%) of the
security deposit to ensure work complete was constructed appropriately and will
be returned to the applicant one (1) year following the partial release of the
security deposit.
      f.   Failure to Comply:
         (1)   Upon failure to complete any work or comply with conditions, the
city may complete the work or fulfill the condition and may collect from the
applicant or surety all costs incurred, including administrative, engineering,
legal, and inspection costs.
         (2)   Any unused portion of the security will be refunded to the
funding source.
   5.   Changes to an Approved Project: Changes to an approved project must be
established only as approved by the review or decision authority, except when
changes to the project are approved in compliance with this section.
      a.   Request for a Change: An applicant must request desired changes in
writing and must submit appropriate supporting materials and an explanation for
the request.
      b.   Notice and Hearing: If the original approval required a noticed
public hearing, a noticed public hearing is required for the requested change
pursuant to section
9-1C-5-D Public Hearings, section
9-1C-5E Notice, except as allowed by section
9-1C-5-H-5-c Minor Changes.
      c.   Minor Changes: The director may authorize minor changes to an
approved project if the changes comply with all the following criteria:
         (1)   The requested changes are consistent with this Zoning Code.
         (2)   The requested changes are consistent with the spirit and intent
of the original approval.
         (3)   The requested changes do not involve a feature of the project
that was a basis for findings in a negative declaration, mitigated negative
declaration, or environmental impact report for the project.
         (4)   The requested changes are in substantial compliance with and are
consistent with the spirit, intent, and directions of the decision-making body.
         (5)   The requested changes do not involve a feature of the project
that was a specific consideration by the review authority in granting the
approval.
         (6)   The requested changes do not involve an expansion,
intensification, or increase greater than ten percent (10%) in size of the land
use or structure, and are in substantial compliance with all other conditions
of approval, do not affect compliance with CEQA requirements, and are found by
the director to be in substantial compliance with the original approval.
         (7)   The requested changes comply with the criteria above and involve
a minor change to the project design that maintains the essential elements of
the project as originally approved.
   6.   Lapse of Approval and Extension: A permit or approval issued pursuant
to this zoning code will lapse and become null and void two (2) years following
the effective date of the permit or approval if not exercised. The permit shall
not be deemed "exercised" until a building permit for the subject property has
been issued, and construction diligently pursued to completion; a Certificate
of Occupancy has been issued by the city; or if no building permit has been
required, the use has commenced. A one (1)-year extension may be granted by the
Director upon written request by the applicant received at least thirty (30)
days prior to the permit or approval expiration date, provided there are no
changes to the project.
   7.   Permits to Run with the Land: Unless otherwise stated for a specific
type of permit or approval under this zoning code, or unless otherwise stated
on the permit or approval document, permits, approvals, or decisions issued
under this zoning code run with the land and are not affected by changes in
ownership or the form of ownership of the property.
   8.   Revocations:
      a.   Notice and Hearing: Upon recommendation by the director, the body
which originally granted the permit or approval will conduct a noticed public
hearing to determine whether a permit or approval, should be revoked. If the
revocation relates to a permit or approval granted by the County of Los
Angeles, the commission will conduct a hearing.
      b.   Decision and Action: If the commission or council finds any one of
the following facts to be present, it will revoke the permit or approval:
         (1)   That the permit or approval was obtained by fraud.
         (2)   That the permit or approval granted is being, or has been,
exercised contrary to the terms and conditions of such permit or approval or in
violation of any law.
         (3)   That the use for which the permit or approval was granted is
being exercised to be detrimental to the public health or safety, or as to
constitute a nuisance.
      c.   Appeal: If the commission conducts the hearing, the action taken by
the commission will be subject to an appeal in compliant with section
9-1C-5-G Appeals of this Zoning Code. (Ord. 19-1036; amd. Ord. 20-1047)
9-1C-6: SPECIFIC PROCEDURES:
This section lists the specific types of development applications that may be
required for a development or redevelopment project in the city, and the
various procedural steps, decision makers, and findings of facts applicable to
each type of application. The requirements of section
9-1C-5 General Procedures will apply to any relevant topic not specifically
addressed in this section. In case of conflict between the provisions of this
section and those of section
9-1C-5 as they relate to a specific type of application or procedure, the
provisions of this section will apply.
Table 9-1C-6-1
Summary of Development Review Procedures
 
Application/Approval      Approval Authority Notice Public Hearing Appeal Body
Zoning Clearance          D                  N      N              --
Minor Site Plan Review    D                  N1     N              PC/CC
Major Site Plan Review    D2/PC4             Y      N/Y4           PC/CC
(standalone)
Minor Variance            D                  Y      N              PC/CC
Variance                  PC                 Y      Y              PC/CC
Temporary Use Permit      D                  N      N              --
Conditional Use Permit    PC                 Y      Y              CC
Zoning Amendment          PC/CC3             Y      Y              CC
General Plan Amendment    PC/CC3             Y      Y              CC
Reasonable Accommodation  D                  Y      N              PC/CC
(standalone)
Development Agreement     PC/CC3             Y      Y              CC
1.   Notice is required for a new two-story single-family residence or
addition above the first story to an existing single-family residence.
2.   The planning commission is the approval authority for a major site plan
review sought in conjunction with another application that requires planning
commission review (conditional use permit, variance, etc.). The city council
is the approval authority for a major site plan review sought in conjunction
with a bonus or concession associated with the state density bonus law.
3.   Recommendation by Planning Commission final approval by City Council.
4.   Major site plan reviews for multi-family projects with 7 or more units,
non-residential projects greater than 10,000 square feet in size, and mixed-
use projects with a component exceeding either will be reviewed by the
Planning Commission.
Key: D = Director; PC = Planning Commission; CC = City Council; N = Not
Required;
Y = Required
 
Flow Chart Key:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3736.png]
 
A.   Zoning Clearance:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3714.png]
   1.   Applicability: Zoning clearances are not considered discretionary for
purposes of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA). A zoning clearance
is required for a proposed use or structure prior to the issuance of any
building, grading, or construction permit, or other authorization for the use
or structure. The following projects are subject to a zoning clearance:
      a.   Single-story accessory structures permanently attached to the ground
for single family uses.
      b.   All fences and walls.
      c.   All pools, spas, and their related equipment.
      d.   All residential patio covers.
      e.   All commercial, industrial, mixed-use, and institutional tenant
improvements provided no exterior changes are proposed.
      f.   Other projects that require a building permit but not require a
minor or major site plan review (except for permits to re-roof a structure,
stucco a structure, or changeout windows).
      g.   The establishment of a new land use or change in land use on an
existing parcel or within an existing structure.
      h.   Accessory dwelling units and junior accessory dwelling units.
      i.   Water heaters and air conditioning units located outside of the
structure.
      j.   Parking lot re-striping.
      k.   Hardscape: All replacement of existing hardscape, new hardscape in
the front yard, new hardscape in the pole portion of a flag lot, new driveways,
new hardscape that reduces the permeability of the lot, or any other hardscape
regulated by the municipal code.
   2.   Application: An application for a zoning clearance must be filed and
reviewed pursuant to section 9-1C1-5-B Application.
   3.   Approval Authority: The director acts on a zoning clearance.
   4.   Scope of Review: The director will issue the zoning clearance after
determining that the request complies with all provisions of this code
applicable to the proposed project.
   5.   Exception: A zoning clearance is not required for projects that have
been approved under another permit process identified in this code.
B.   Minor Site Plan Review:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3716.png]
   1.   Purpose: The minor site plan review process is to:
      a.   Ensure that development occurs in a manner consistent with the
overall goals and objectives of the general plan.
      b.   Ensure that all development is consistent with the standards and
regulations contained in the code.
      c.   Ensure that the proposed architectural design and treatment of
construction is consistent with the design guidelines contained in the code.
      d.   Ensure that the proposed architectural design and treatment of
construction is designed to minimize adverse aesthetic and environmental
impacts on the site and its surroundings and are compatible with its
surroundings.
   2.   Applicability: The following projects are subject to a minor site plan
review:
      a.   All new, single-story, single-family residences.
      b.   Ground floor additions to single-family residences.
      c.   Any proposed demolition, where new construction is not proposed.
      d.   New two-story single-family residences or additions above the ground
floor of a single-family residence.
      e.   Facade improvements and other exterior changes on commercial,
industrial, mixed-use, and institutional uses provided there is no square
footage being added.
      f.   Accessory structures for multi-family, commercial, industrial,
mixed-use, and institutional uses, including trash enclosures and other non-
habitable structures that are one hundred twenty (120) square feet or larger;
provided there is no habitable square footage being added.
      g.   The addition of outdoor seating areas to existing restaurants
provided there is no interior square footage being added.
   3.   Application: An application for site plan review must be filed and
reviewed pursuant to 9-1C-5-B Application.
   4.   Approval Authority: The director acts on all minor site plan reviews.
   5.   Public Hearing: Minor site plan reviews do not require a public
hearing. However, the director may, due to the nature of a proposed project,
require that a public hearing before the director be held for a minor site plan
review.
   6.   Notice:
      a.   Notice is not required for a minor site plan review except for the
following:
         (1)   A new two (2)-story single-family residence or addition above
the first story to an existing single-family residence.
         (2)   When required by the director.
      b.   Noticing Requirements:
         (1)   Notice that the director will be deciding on an application will
be mailed to owners of all properties, as shown on the latest equalized
assessment roll, located within one hundred feet (100') from the external
boundaries of the real property that is the subject of the hearing, at least
fourteen (14) days prior to the director's decision being made. The list of the
names of the property owners, within the notice mailing radius must be provided
by the applicant.
         (2)   Notices must contain a description of the location, a brief
description of the proposal, the deadline to submit comments, the date the
director is scheduled to decide, and information about when and how an appeal
may be filed.
   7.   Comment Period: The comment period will be ten (10) days from the date
notice is provided. Written comments received by the director during this
period will be considered as part of the staff review.
   8.   Findings of Fact: The director may approve a site plan review only if
all the following findings of fact are made:
      a.   The proposed development complies with all applicable provisions of
this zoning code and is consistent with the general plan and any applicable
specific plan.
      b.   The proposed structures, signs, site development, grading and/or
landscaping are compatible in design, appearance and scale with existing uses,
development, signs, and structures and landscaping of the surrounding area.
      c.   The proposed development, as submitted or modified by conditions of
approval is consistent with the applicable design guidelines.
      d.   The site is adequate in size and shape to accommodate the proposed
structures, yards, walls, fences, parking, landscaping, and other development
features.
      e.   The approval of the site plan review complies with the California
Environmental Quality Act (CEQA).
   9.   Appeals: Procedures and requirements of 9-1C-5-G Appeals will apply to
appeals of a site plan review decision.
   10.   Post Decision Procedures: Procedures and requirements of 9-1C-5-H Post
Decision Procedures will apply to a site plan review decision.
C.   Major Site Plan Review:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3718.png]
   1.   Purpose: The major site plan review process is to:
      a.   Ensure that development occurs in a manner consistent with the
overall goals and objectives of the city's general plan.
      b.   Ensure that all development is consistent with the standards and
regulations contained in the code.
      c.   Ensure that the proposed architectural design and treatment of
construction is consistent with the design guidelines contained in the code.
      d.   Ensure that the proposed architectural design and treatment of
construction is designed to minimize adverse aesthetic and environmental
impacts on the site and its surroundings, and are compatible with its
surroundings.
   2.   Applicability: The following projects are subject to a major site plan
review:
      a.   All new commercial, industrial, mixed-use, multi-family residential,
and institutional construction, or remodel where new square footage or units is
proposed.
      b.   Any other construction not identified as requiring a minor site plan
review or zoning clearance, as determined by the director.
   3.   Application: An application for site plan review must be filed and
reviewed pursuant to section
9-1C-5-B Application.
   4.   Approval Authority: The director acts on major site plan reviews,
except, under the following conditions:
      a.   When a major site plan review is sought in conjunction with another
application that requires planning commission review (conditional use permit,
variance, etc.), the planning commission will be the approval authority.
      b.   When a major site plan review for a multi-family project includes
seven (7) or more units, a non-residential project is greater than ten thousand
(10,000) square feet, or a mixed-use project includes seven (7) or more units
or ten thousand (10,000) square feet of non-residential space the Planning
Commission will act on the application.
      c.   The city council acts, upon recommendation of the planning
commission, on site plan reviews that also involve concessions under the
state's density bonus law.
   5.   Public Hearing:
      a.   Major site plan reviews that are acted upon by the director do not
require a public hearing. However, the director may, due to the nature of a
proposed project, require that a public hearing before the director be held for
a major site plan review.
      b.   For major site plan reviews that are acted upon by the planning
commission or city council, the public hearing will be set before the planning
commission or city council pursuant to section
9-1C-5-D Public Hearings.
   6.   Notice: Notice for a major site plan review with or without a public
hearing will occur in compliance with section
9-1C-5-E Notice. For major site plan reviews without a public hearing, notice
will be provided the specified number of days prior to the director's decision
being made, and the public notice must include the date the Director is
scheduled to decide.
   7.   Findings of Fact: The approval authority (director, planning
commission, or city council) may approve a major site plan review only if all
the following findings of fact are made:
      a.   The proposed development complies with all applicable provisions of
this Zoning Code and is consistent with the general plan and any applicable
specific plan.
      b.   The proposed structures, signs, site development, grading and/or
landscaping are compatible in design, appearance and scale with existing uses,
development, signs, structures, and landscaping of the surrounding area.
      c.   The proposed development, as submitted or modified by conditions of
approval is consistent with the applicable design guidelines.
      d.   The site is adequate in size and shape to accommodate the proposed
structures, yards, walls, fences, parking, landscaping, and other development
features.
      e.   The approval of the site plan review complies with the California
Environmental Quality Act (CEQA).
   8.   Appeals: Procedures and requirements of section
9-1C-5-G Appeals apply to appeals of a major site plan review decision.
   9.   Post Decision Procedures: Procedures and requirements of section
9-1C-5-H Post Decision Procedures apply to a major site plan review decision.
D.   Minor Exception:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3720.png]
   1.   Purpose: A minor exception is provided to allow an applicant that
demonstrates practical difficulties in complying with all requirements of this
Zoning Code, minor deviations from certain development standards of this zoning
code.
   2.   Applicability: The following adjustment from the applicable development
standards may be subject to a minor exception.
Table 9-1C-6-2
Maximum Allowable Deviation by Minor exception
 
Development Standard               Maximum Allowable Deviation (cumulative
                                   of earlier deviations).
Minimum Front Setback              15%
Minimum Side Setback               15%
Minimum Rear Setback               10%
Maximum Height, Principal Building 10%
Minimum Number of Vehicle Parking  10%
Spaces
 
   3.   Application: An application for a minor exception must be filed and
reviewed pursuant to section
9-1C-5-B Application.
   4.   Approval Authority: The director acts on a minor exception. The
director will set a date and time on which the application for a minor
exception will be considered and decision be made.
   5.   Notice:
      a.   Notice that an application for a minor exception has been submitted
will be mailed to the owners of all properties, as shown on the latest
equalized assessment roll, located within one hundred feet (100') from the
external boundaries of the real property that is the subject of the hearing, at
least fourteen (14) days before the decision will be made. The list of the
names of the property owners within the notice mailing radius will be provided
by the applicant.
      b.   Notices will contain a description of the location, a brief
description of the proposal, the date the director is scheduled to make a
decision, the deadline to submit written comments, and information about when
and how an appeal may be filed.
   6.   Comment Period: The comment period will be fourteen (14) days from the
date notice is provided. Written comments received by the director during this
period will be considered as part of the staff review.
   7.   Findings of Fact: The director may approve a minor exception only if
all the following findings of fact are made:
      a.   The minor exception will be compatible with adjacent structures and
uses and is consistent with the character of the neighborhood or zone district
where it is located.
      b.   The minor exception will not adversely impact neighboring properties
or the community at large and will not be materially detrimental to the public
welfare or injurious to the adjacent or neighboring properties.
      c.   The minor exception will be consistent with all other applicable
provisions of the city's general plan and any applicable specific plan.
      d.   The minor exception will not establish an undesirable precedent.
   8.   Appeals: Procedures and requirements of section
9-1C-5-G Appeals will apply to a minor exception.
   9.   Post Decision Procedures: Procedures and requirements of section 9-1C5-
H Post Decision Procedures will apply to a minor exception.
E.   Variance:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3722.png]
   1.   Purpose: A variance is provided to allow for the deviation from the
terms and standards of this zoning code and is granted only when, because of
special circumstances applicable to the property, the strict application of
this zoning code deprives such property of privileges enjoyed by other property
in the vicinity under identical zoning classification.
   2.   Applicability:
      a.   A variance is required for the deviation from any physical
development standard to the subject property. Examples of physical development
standards include height, setbacks, open space, floor area ratio (FAR), and
off-street parking requirements.
      b.   Minor building alterations consistent with the reasonable
accommodations portion of this code (9-1C-6-J), and/or small expansions to
existing facilities, which are proposed for the sole purpose of meeting the
requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), will be waived from
a zone variance requirement. Specific instances may require a public hearing if
it is determined by the director that the proposed building modifications
involve more substantial work than mere compliance with ADA requirements.
      c.   A variance will not be granted to permit a use or activity which is
not otherwise expressly permitted within the zoning district which the property
is in as specified in the Use Tables of each zoning district.
   3.   Application: An application for a variance will be filed pursuant to
section
9-1C-5-B Application.
   4.   Pre-Application Meeting: An applicant seeking a variance will
participate in a pre-application meeting pursuant to
9-1C-5-A Pre-Application Meeting.
   5.   Approval Authority: The planning commission acts on all variances, and
may approve, conditionally approve, or deny a variance by resolution adopted by
not less than three (3) affirmative votes.
   6.   Public Hearing: Every application for a variance will be set for a
public hearing before the planning commission by the director, in compliance
with section
9-1C-5-D Public Hearings.
   7.   Notice: Notice for a public hearing will occur in compliance with
section
9-1C-5-E Notice.
   8.   Findings of Fact: The planning commission may approve a variance only
if all the following findings of fact are made:
      a.   There are unique circumstances applicable to the subject property,
including size, shape, topography, location, or surroundings, that do not
generally apply to other properties in the same zone as the subject property.
      b.   The variance is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment of a
substantial property right possessed by other property similarly situated, but
which is denied to the property in question.
      c.   The variance will not be materially detrimental to the public
welfare or injurious to the adjacent or neighboring properties.
      d.   The subject property and existing or proposed use located on the
subject property complies with all other applicable provisions of this zoning
code and is in conformance with the general plan and any applicable specific
plan.
   9.   Appeals: Decisions of the planning commission may be appealed to the
city council in compliance with section
9-1C-5-G Appeals.
   10.   Post Decision Procedures: Post decision procedures and requirements in
section
9-1C-5-H Post Decision Procedures will apply to zone variances.
F.   Temporary Use Permit:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3724.png]
   1.   Purpose: A temporary use permit is required for certain temporary uses
and structures to ensure that proposed temporary uses or structures comply with
the standards of this Zoning Code and do not negatively impact neighboring
properties or the general public.
   2.   Applicability: When permitted in a zoning district, all temporary uses
will require a temporary use permit except for the following exempt temporary
uses, subject to applicable occurrence and duration standards. A temporary use
permit will be required for any exempt temporary use exceeding applicable
occurrence and duration standards.
      a.   Garage sales for individual residences limited to three (3), two
(2)-day events per calendar year per individual residence. One (1) block or
neighborhood sale per calendar year is allowed in addition to individual sales.
      b.   Storage containers delivered to a home, loaded by residents, and
delivered to another location, for a maximum of two (2) weeks on private
property. Storage containers on a residential property for more than two (2)
weeks may be approved by the director with a temporary use permit.
      c.   Outdoor fund-raising events located on non-residential zoned
properties, when sponsored by a non-profit, charitable, civic, service,
religious, educational or other similar organization directly engaged in civic
or charitable efforts, limited to one (1) weekend per month per sponsoring
organization.
      d.   Temporary on-site construction yards and office trailers, less than
one (1) acre in size, and established in conjunction with an approved project.
The construction yard and trailer will be immediately removed within ten (10)
days of completion of the construction project or expiration of the building
permit.
      e.   Temporary events at any publicly owned facility, including city-
owned parks.
      f.   Seasonal sales events such as Christmas tree farms and pumpkin
patches.
      g.   Any other temporary use of the public right-of-way.
   3.   Application: An application for a temporary use permit will be filed
and reviewed in compliance with section
9-1C-5-B Application.
   4.   Approval Authority: The director acts on the temporary use permit and
may impose conditions that are deemed reasonable and necessary to ensure that
the permit would be in full compliance with the findings required by section
9-1C-6-F-5, Scope of Review.
   5.   Scope of Review: The director will issue the temporary use permit after
determining that the request complies with all the provisions of this zoning
code applicable to the proposed temporary use, including any makes the
following findings:
      a.   The proposed temporary use is compatible with the nature, character
and use of the surrounding area;
      b.   The temporary use will not adversely affect the adjacent uses,
buildings or structures;
      c.   The nature of the proposed use is not detrimental to the health,
safety, or welfare of the community.
      d.   The applicant has agreed in writing to comply with all conditions
imposed on approval of the temporary use permit.
   6.   Conditions of Approval: The director may include conditions of approval
consistent with one or more of the following:
      a.   Unless on Public Property, the applicant must either be the owner of
the property, or the authorized agent of the owner of the property, where the
temporary use will occur. For temporary uses involving city owned parks and
recreation areas, see section
3-5E-2 Permits of the municipal code;
      b.   Continuation of a temporary use beyond the authorized dates or
failure to remove a structure associated with a temporary use within ten (10)
days of the final authorized day of use will constitute a violation of the
municipal code and may be subject to Article U, Enforcement, Violations and
Penalties, of the Zoning Code;
      c.   Fixed period of time. Unless otherwise stated in the permit, a
provision for a fixed period of time not to exceed thirty (30) days for a
temporary use not occupying a structure, including promotional activities, or
twelve (12) months for all other temporary uses or structures, or for a shorter
period of time as determined appropriate by the director;
      d.   Operating hours and days. The director may set hours of operation
for the temporary use, and may limit one (1) or more days of the use within the
time established in subsection 3. above;
      e.   Temporary pedestrian and vehicular circulation. Provision for
adequate temporary pedestrian and vehicular circulation, parking facilities
(including vehicular ingress and egress), and public transportation;
      f.   Regulation of nuisance factors. Regulation of nuisance factors
including prevention of glare or direct illumination on adjacent parcels, dirt,
dust, gases, heat, noise, odors, smoke, trash, and vibration;
      g.   Regulation of temporary structures. Regulation of temporary
structures and facilities, including placement, height and size, location of
equipment and open spaces including buffer areas and yards, and equipment
staging or materials storage areas;
      h.   Sanitary and medical facilities. Provision for sanitary and medical
facilities, as appropriate;
      i.   Waste collection, recycling, and/or disposal. Provision for solid,
hazardous, and toxic waste collection, recycling, and/or disposal;
      j.   Police/security and safety measures. Provision for police/security
and safety measures, as appropriate;
      k.   Signs. Regulation of signs, including provisions to ensure removal
of the signs following the event;
      l.   Performance bond or other security. Submission of a performance bond
or other security measures, satisfactory to the director, to ensure that any
temporary facilities or structures used will be removed from the site within a
reasonable time following the event and that the property will be restored to
its former condition, or better, as determined by the director;
      m.   Compliance with applicable provisions. A requirement that the
approval of the requested temporary use permit is contingent upon compliance
with applicable provisions of the Municipal Code and the successful approval of
any/all required permits from any other department or governing agency; and
      n.   Other conditions. Other conditions that would ensure that the
operation of the proposed temporary use would be conducted in an orderly and
efficient manner, and in full compliance with the purpose of this chapter.
G.   Conditional Use Permit:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3726.png]
   1.   Applicability: A CUP is required for certain land uses that are
generally appropriate within a zoning district, but may have impacts that make
them undesirable on a particular parcel, in large numbers, or within a
specified proximity to another use. Land uses requiring a CUP are displayed in
the Use Table in each zoning district section.
   2.   Pre-Application Meeting: An applicant seeking a CUP must participate in
a pre-application meeting pursuant to
9-1C-5-A Pre-Application Meeting.
   3.   Application: An application for a CUP will be filed in compliance with
section
9-1C-5-B Application.
   4.   Approval Authority: The planning commission acts on all CUPs, and may
approve, conditionally, approve, or deny a CUP by resolution adopted by not
less than three affirmative votes.
   5.   Public Hearing: Every application for a CUP will be set for a public
hearing before the planning commission by the Director, in compliance with
section
9-1C-5-D Public Hearings.
   6.   Notice: Notice for a CUP Hearing will occur in compliance with section
9-1C-5-E Notice.
   7.   Additional Standards: The proposed conditional use must comply with all
provisions of this zoning code, including any special use standards specified
in Article T, Special Uses.
   8.   Findings of Fact: The planning commission may approve a CUP only if all
the following findings of fact are made:
      a.   The proposed use complies with all applicable provisions of this
zoning code.
      b.   The proposed use is consistent with the general plan and any
applicable specific plan.
      c.   The location, size, design, and operating characteristics of the
proposed use will be compatible with existing and future land uses in the
vicinity where the proposed use will be located, in terms of aesthetic values,
character, and scale.
      d.   The site and use provide adequate and appropriate access to and from
the site and within the site for vehicles, bicycles, and pedestrian and is
adequately served by public facilities and services.
      e.   The proposed use will not be detrimental or injurious to property or
improvements in the neighborhood or the general welfare of the city.
   9.   Appeals: Decisions of the planning commission may be appealed to the
city council in compliance with section
9-1C-5-G Appeals.
   10.   Post Decision Procedures: Post decision procedures and requirements in
section
9-1C-5-H Post Decision Procedures will apply to CUPs.
H.   General Plan Amendment:
   1.   Initiation: Amendments to the general plan may be initiated by any of
the following:
      a.   General plan diagram amendment:
         (1)   By motion of the city council.
         (2)   By motion of the planning commission.
         (3)   By the city manager.
         (4)   By the owner or person in legal possession of any real property
located within the city.
      b.   General plan text amendment:
         (1)   By motion of the city council.
         (2)   By motion of the planning commission.
   2.   Application: An application for a general plan amendment will be filed
and reviewed in compliance with section
9-1C-5-B Application.
   3.   Planning Commission Action:
      a.   Notice and Hearing: The planning commission will hold a public
hearing on a proposed general plan text or diagram amendment pursuant to
section
9-1C-5-D Public Hearing and section
9-1C-5-E Notice.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3728.png]
      b.     Decision: After conducting a hearing on any proposed amendment,
the commission will make a written recommendation to the council whether to:
         (1)     Recommend the city council approve the requested amendment.
         (2)     Recommend the city council conditionally approve the proposed
amendment.
         (3)   Recommend the city council deny the requested amendment.
         (4)   The commission's action must be by resolution, adopted by not
less than three affirmative votes, which must be based upon the findings
specified in section
9-1C-6-H-6 Findings for General Plan Amendment Approval.
         (5)   The director will forward the commission's written
recommendation to the city clerk.
   4.   City Council Action:
      a.   Notice and Hearing: Upon receiving the planning commission
recommendation to approve, approve with conditions, or deny a General Plan
amendment, the city council will hold a public hearing on the proposed
amendment pursuant to section
9-1C-5-D Public Hearing and section
9-1C-5-E Notice.
      b.   Decision: After conducting a hearing on any proposed amendment, the
council must take one of the following courses of action:
         (1)   Approve the requested amendment.
         (2)   Approve the requested amendment with conditions.
         (3)   Deny the requested amendment.
      c.   Referral to planning commission:
         (1)   If the decision of the council, after conducting a public
hearing, is in any way contrary to the commission's action, the said matter
will be referred to the commission for a report before any final action is
taken by the council.
         (2)   Failure of the commission to report back to the council within
forty (40) days after such matter has been referred to it will be deemed a
recommendation for approval of the council's action.
   5.   Findings for General Plan Amendment Approval: The city council may
approve a General Plan text or diagram amendment only if all the following
findings of fact are made:
      a.   The proposed amendment would not create an internal inconsistency in
the General Plan.
      b.   The proposed amendment would not be detrimental to the public
health, safety, or general welfare of the city.
   6.   Effective Date: A general plan amendment will become effective
immediately upon the adoption of a resolution by the city council.
I.   Zoning Amendment:
This section establishes procedures for amending this zoning code, including
text and map amendments. All amendments to this zoning code will be processed
as set forth in Government Code section 65853 et seq. and as specified in this
section.
   1.   Purpose: A zoning amendment is the process of amending the content of
this zoning code, including the text or zoning map.
   2.   Initiation: Amendments to this zoning code and zoning map may be
initiated by any of the following:
      a.   By motion of the city council.
      b.   By motion of the planning commission.
      c.   By the owner, or person in legal possession of any real property
located within the city, or by any public agency having the power of eminent
domain.
      d.   By council action taken pursuant to section Government Code section
65858.
      e.   By the city manager.
   3.   Pre-Application Meeting: A private applicant seeking a zoning code or
map amendment must participate in a pre-application meeting pursuant to section
9-1C-5-A Pre-Application Meeting.
   4.   Application: An application for a zoning amendment will be filed and
reviewed in compliance with section 9-1C.5.B Application.
   5.   Planning Commission Action:
      a.   Notice and Hearing: The commission will hold a public hearing on a
proposed zoning code amendment or zoning map amendment pursuant to section
9-1C-5-D Public Hearing and section
9-1C-5-E Notice.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3730.png]
      b.    Decision:
         (1)   After conducting a hearing on any proposed amendment, the
commission will make a written recommendation to the council whether to:
recommend the city council approve the requested amendment, recommend the city
council conditionally approve the proposed amendment, or recommend the city
council deny the requested amendment.
         (2)   The commission's action must be by resolution, adopted by not
less than three affirmative votes, which must be based upon the findings
specified in section 9-1C-I-7 Findings for Code Amendment Approval.
         (3)   The Director must forward the commission's written
recommendation to the city clerk.
   6.   City Council Action:
      a.   Notice and Hearing: Upon receiving the planning commission
recommendation to approve, approve with conditions, or deny a zoning code or
zoning map amendment, the city council will hold a public hearing on the
proposed amendment pursuant to section 9-1C.5-D Public Hearing and section 9-
1C.5-E Notice.
      b.   Decision: After conducting a hearing on any proposed amendment, the
council must take one (1) of the following courses of action:
         (1)   Approve the requested amendment.
         (2)   Approve the requested amendment with conditions.
         (3)   Deny the requested amendment.
         (4)   If the decision of the council, after conducting a public
hearing, is in any way contrary to the commission's action, the said matter
will be referred to the commission for a report before any final action is
taken by the council. Failure of the commission to report back to the council
within forty (40) days after such matter has been referred to it will be deemed
a recommendation for approval of the council's action.
   7.   Findings for Code Amendment Approval: The city council may approve a
Zoning Code amendment or zoning map amendment only if all the following
findings of fact are made:
      a.   Findings applicable to all Zoning Code and Zoning Map amendments.
         (1)   The proposed amendment is consistent with the general plan and
any applicable specific plan as provided by Government Code section 65860.
         (2)   The proposed amendment will not be detrimental to the public
health, safety, or welfare of the city.
      b.   Additional finding for zoning code text amendments: The proposed
amendment is consistent with other applicable provisions of this Zoning Code.
   8.   Effective Date: A zone amendment becomes effective thirty (30) days
following the adoption of the ordinance by the city council.
J.   Reasonable Accommodation:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3732.png]
   1.   Purpose: A reasonable accommodation request is an adjustment to
standards of this Zoning Code to accommodate modifications to a dwelling unit
in response to the needs of a disabled resident seeking equal access to housing
under the Federal Fair Housing Act and the California Fair Employment and
Housing Act.
   2.   Public Notice of Process Availability: Notice of the availability of
the reasonable accommodation process will be publicly displayed at city hall.
Forms for requesting reasonable accommodation will be available to the public
at the community development department at city hall.
   3.   Applicability:
      a.   A request for reasonable accommodation may include a modification or
exception to the rules, standards, and practices for the siting, development,
and use of housing or housing-related facilities that would eliminate
regulatory barriers and provide a person with a disability equal opportunity to
housing of their choice.
      b.   A request for reasonable accommodation may be made by any person
with a disability, their representative, or any entity, when the application of
this zoning code or other land use regulations, policy, or practice acts as a
barrier to fair housing opportunities.
      c.   A request for reasonable accommodation may be made by any person
with a disability, their representative, or a developer or provider of housing
for individuals with a disability. A reasonable accommodation may be approved
only for the benefit of one or more individuals with a disability. A reasonable
accommodation may be approved for a "community care facility/large", as defined
in section
9-1A-12, Definitions of this zoning code.
   4.   Application:
      a.   An application for a reasonable accommodation will be filed and
reviewed pursuant to section
9-1C-5-B Application.
      b.   If the project for which the request for reasonable accommodation is
being made also requires some other discretionary approval (e.g., conditional
use permit, variance, etc.), then the applicant will file the reasonable
accommodation application materials together for concurrent review with the
application for discretionary approval.
      c.   A request for reasonable accommodation may be filed at any time that
the accommodation is necessary to ensure equal access to housing. A reasonable
accommodation does not affect an individual's obligation to comply with other
applicable regulations not at issue in the requested accommodation.
      d.   If an individual needs assistance in making the request for
reasonable accommodation, the city will provide assistance to ensure that the
process is amenable to the individual.
   5.   Required Submittals: In addition to materials required under other
applicable provisions of this code, an application for reasonable accommodation
will include the following:
      a.   Documentation that the applicant is any of the following: an
individual with a disability, applying on behalf of one or more individuals
with a disability, or a developer or provider of housing for one (1) or more
individuals with a disability.
      b.   Documentation of the specific exception or modification to the
zoning code provision, policy, or practices requested by the applicant.
      c.   Documentation that the specific exception or modification requested
by the applicant is necessary to provide one (1) or more individuals with a
disability an equal opportunity to use and enjoy the residence.
      d.   Any other information that the director reasonably concludes is
necessary to determine whether the findings required by in section
9-1C-6-J-8 Required Findings can be made so long as any request for information
regarding the disability of the individuals benefited complies with fair
housing law protections and the privacy rights of the individuals affected.
   6.   Approval Authority: The director acts on all applications for a
reasonable accommodation, except under the following circumstances:
      a.   If the reasonable accommodation application is filed for concurrent
review with an application for discretionary review, the planning commission or
city council as applicable will act on the reasonable accommodation
application.
      b.   The director may refer any reasonable accommodation application to
the planning commission for review and final decision.
   7.   Notice: Notice that a request for reasonable accommodations has been
received will be mailed to the owners of properties within one hundred (100)
feet of a proposed project fourteen (14) days prior to the director approving
the project.
   8.   Comment Period: The comment period will be ten (10) days from the date
notice is provided. Written comments received by the director during this
period will be considered as part of the staff review.
   9.   Procedure:
      a.   Director Review:
         (1)   The director will make a written decision within forty-five (45)
days based upon the findings specified in section
9-1C-6-J-9 Findings.
         (2)   To reach a decision on the request for reasonable accommodation,
the director may request further information from the applicant consistent with
fair housing laws, if necessary. If a request for additional information is
made, the forty-five (45)-day period to issue a decision is stayed until the
applicant submits the requested information.
      b.   Other Review Authority:
         (1)   If the director refers a reasonable accommodation application to
the planning commission for review and final decision, the planning commission
must decide within forty-five (45) days based upon the findings specified in
section
9-1C-6-J-9 Findings.
         (2)   The decision on a request for reasonable accommodation that is
submitted concurrently with a discretionary permit application will be made by
the planning commission or city council in conjunction with the review
procedure for the discretionary permit application.
   10.   Findings: The review authority must make a written decision and either
approve, approve with modifications, or deny a request for reasonable
accommodation based on consideration of all the following factors:
      a.   The requested accommodation is requested by, or on behalf of, one
(1) or more individuals with a disability protected under the fair housing
laws.
      b.    The requested accommodation is necessary to provide one (1) or more
individuals with a disability an equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling.
      c.   The requested accommodation will not impose an "undue financial or
administrative burden" on the city, as defined in fair housing laws and
interpretive case law.
      d.   The requested accommodation will not result in a "fundamental
alteration" to the purpose of the zoning code, as defined in fair housing laws
and interpretive case law.
      e.   The requested accommodation will not, under the specific facts of
the case, result in a direct threat to the health or safety of other
individuals or substantial physical damage to the property of others.
   11.   Alternative Reasonable Accommodations: In making these findings, the
review authority may approve alternative reasonable accommodations which
provide an equivalent level of benefit to the applicant.
   12.   Conditions of Approval: In approving a request for reasonable
accommodation, the review authority may impose conditions of approval to ensure
that the reasonable accommodation will comply with the requirements of this
Zoning code.
   13.   Appeals: Procedures and requirements of section
9-1C-5-G Appeals must apply to a reasonable accommodation request.
   14.   Post Decision Procedures: Procedures and requirements of section
9-1C-5-H Post Decision Procedures will apply to a reasonable accommodations
request.
K.   Development Agreements:
   1.   Use: The following provides procedures for the review, approval, and
amendment of development agreements, consistent with Government Code section
65864. A development agreement is a legislative act that must be approved by
ordinance and subject to referendum.
   2.   Initiation: Consideration of a development agreement may be initiated
by:
      a.   Property owner(s) or other persons having a legal or equitable
interest in the property proposed to be subject to the agreement or an
authorized agent of the owner(s).
      b.   A resolution of intention by the council.
   3.   Fully Effectuate: The provisions of any development agreement executed
in compliance with this zoning code must fully effectuate and be consistent
with this section, Government Code section 65864, and the development agreement
itself.
   4.   Discrepancies: If a discrepancy between the meanings of these documents
arises, reference must be made to the following documents, and in the following
order:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3734.png]
      a.   The terms of the development agreement itself.
      b.   The provisions of this Zoning Code.
      c.   The provisions of state law.
   5.   Size of Property: The property proposed to be subject to the agreement
must be not less than one (1) acre in size.
   6.   Pre-Application Meeting: An applicant seeking a development agreement
must participate in a pre-application meeting pursuant to section
9-1C-5-A Pre-Application Meeting.
   7.   Application: An application for a development agreement must be filed
and reviewed in compliance with section
9-1C-5-B Application.
   8.   Approval Authority: The city council acts on development agreements.
   9.   Content of Development Agreement.
      a.   Mandatory provisions: A development agreement entered into in
compliance with this Zoning Code must contain the mandatory provisions
specified by Government Code section 65865.2.
      b.   Permissive provisions: A development agreement entered into in
compliance with this Zoning Code may contain the permissive provisions
specified by Government Code section 65865.2.
   10.   Procedure:
      a.   Director Action:
         (1)   The director will receive, review, and process an application
for a development agreement. The director may call upon all other departments
of the city to assist in the review and processing of a development agreement
application.
         (2)   The director will set the application, together with
recommendations, for a public hearing before the planning commission.
      b.   Planning Commission Action: The planning commission will serve as
the planning agency on development agreement applications in compliance with
state law.
         (1)   Public Hearing Required: Every application for a development
agreement must be set for a public hearing before the planning commission by
the director, pursuant to section 9-1C-5-D Public Hearings.
         (2)   Notice: Notice for a development agreement hearing will occur
pursuant to section
9-1C-5-E Notice.
         (3)   Decision: After conducting a public hearing on any proposed
development agreement, the commission will take one (1) of the following
courses of action based upon the findings specified in section
9-1C-6-K-11 Findings of Fact: recommend the city council approve the requested
zoning development agreement, recommend the city council conditionally approve
the proposed development agreement, or recommend the city council deny the
requested development agreement.
      c.   City Council Action: Upon receipt of the planning commission's
recommendation, the city clerk will set the application for public hearing.
         (1)   Public Hearing Required: Every application for a development
agreement must be set for a public hearing before the city council pursuant to
section
9-1C-5-D Public Hearings.
         (2)   Notice: Notice for a development agreement hearing must occur
pursuant to section
9-1C-5-E Notice.
         (3)   Decision: After conducting a hearing on any proposed development
agreement, the city council will take one of the following courses of action
based upon the findings specified in subsection
9-1C-6-K-11 Findings of Fact: approve the requested development agreement,
conditionally approve the proposed development agreement, or deny the requested
development agreement.
   11.   Findings of Fact: The city council may approve a development agreement
only if all the following findings of fact are made:
      a.   The development agreement is in conformance with General Plan, and
any applicable specific plan, unless in the development agreement is approved
in conjunction with appropriate entitlements.
      b.   The development agreement would not be detrimental to the health,
safety, and general welfare of persons residing in the immediate area, nor be
detrimental or injurious to property or persons in the general neighborhood or
to the general welfare of the residents of Temple City.
      c.   If the development agreement includes a subdivision, the agreement
must provide that any tentative map prepared for the subdivision will comply
with the provisions of Government Code section 66473.7.
   12.   Execution and Recordation:
      a.   The city will not execute any development agreement until on or
after the date upon which the ordinance approving the agreement and enacted
pursuant to section
9-1C-6-K-10 Procedure becomes effective.
      b.    An executed development agreement must be recorded in the office of
the Recorder of the County of Los Angeles no later than fourteen (14) days
after it is executed.
   13.   Environmental Review: The approval or conditional approval of a
development agreement must be deemed a discretionary act for the purposes of
CEQA.
   14.   Enforceability: Unless amended, canceled, modified, or suspended, as
provided by this section, a development agreement must be enforceable by
parties included in the agreement notwithstanding any change in the general
plan, any applicable specific plan, or other zoning, subdivision, or building
regulation adopted by the city, which alters or amends the rules, regulations,
and policies of the development agreement.
   15.   Periodic Review:
      a.   Every development agreement approved and executed pursuant to this
section will be periodically reviewed, once every twelve (12) months, during
the term of the agreement following the date of its execution.
      b.   If, as a result of periodic review pursuant to this section, the
city council finds and determines, on the basis of substantial evidence, that
the applicant or its successor in interest has not complied in good faith with
the terms or conditions of the agreement, the city council may terminate or
modify the agreement following a public hearing pursuant to section
9-1C-5-D Public Hearing and section
9-1C-5-E Notice.
   16.   Amendment: A development agreement may be amended, or canceled in
whole or in part, by mutual consent of the parties to the agreement or their
successors in interest following a public hearing pursuant to section
9-1C-5-D Public Hearing and section
9-1C-5-E Notice.
   17.   Modification or Suspension: If state or federal laws or regulations,
enacted after a development agreement has been entered into, prevent or
preclude compliance with one or more provisions of the development agreement,
such provisions of the agreement will be modified or suspended as may be
necessary to comply with such state or federal laws or regulations.
   18.   Effect of Development Agreement: Unless otherwise provided by the
development agreement, rules, regulations and official policies governing
permitted uses of the land, governing density, and governing design,
improvement and construction standards and specifications, applicable to
development of the property subject to a development agreement, are the rules,
regulations and official policies in force at the time of execution of the
agreement. A development agreement does not prevent the city, in subsequent
actions applicable to the property, from applying new rules, regulations and
policies which do not conflict with those rules, regulations and policies
applicable to the property under the development agreement, nor does a
development agreement prevent the city from denying or conditionally approving
any subsequent development project application on the basis of such existing or
new rules, regulations and policies.
L.   Expedited Non-Discretionary Multi-Family Review:
   1.   Purpose: The expedited multi-family review process:
      a.   Provides an optional expedited, non-discretionary, approval process
for multi-family development projects in the R-2 zone that utilize the City's
architectural prototypes and design palettes for multi-family projects.
Approval under the expedited multi-family review process is considered
ministerial and does not involve discretionary (site plan) review.
      b.   Ensures that development occurs in a manner consistent with the
overall goals and objectives of the city's general plan.
      c.   Ensure that multi-family developments approved under the expedited
review are consistent with the standards and regulations contained in the code.
      d.   Ensure that the proposed architectural design and treatment of
construction is consistent with the design guidelines contained in the code.
      e.   Ensure that the proposed architectural design and treatment of
construction is designed to minimize adverse aesthetic and environmental
impacts on the site and its surroundings and are compatible with its
surroundings.
   2.   Applicability: Any new multi-family residential development in the R-
2 zone, as determined by the director, that utilizes the architectural
prototypes and palettes contained in the City's architectural prototype and
palette library, adopted by reference via Resolution No. 22-5639, and as
modified from time to time.
   3.   Application: An application for review under the objective design
standards must be filed and reviewed pursuant to section
9-1C-5-B Application.
   4.   Approval Authority: The director acts on projects submitted under this
section. When the project involves a subdivision or other entitlement requiring
a public hearing (such as a variance), the planning commission will review the
tentative map only.
   5.   Scope of Review: Prior to commencing the expedited multi-family review
process, the director will determine whether the project substantially complies
with the architectural prototypes and design palettes, zoning code (except the
design criteria and any subjective provisions), and any applicable objective
standards in a specific plan. The director will utilize a specially prepared
checklist for determining "substantial compliance". This checklist will be
provided to the applicant prior to submittal.
   6.   Public Hearing: Projects submitted under this section do not require a
public hearing, unless the project is submitted with an entitlement requiring
Planning Commission or City Council Review, such as a tentative map or density
bonus.
   7.   Notice: Within one-week of approval, a Notice of Future Construction
will be mailed to the adjacent property owners within one hundred feet (100').
The notice must include a description of the project and contact information
for the City and applicant. It is the applicant's responsibility to provide the
City with a radius map, ownership list, one set of mailing labels, and an
affidavit certifying the accuracy of the map and ownership list when an
application is submitted. Notice for a project involving a subdivision will
occur in compliance with section
9-1C-5 E. Notice.
   8.   Post Decision Procedures: Procedures and requirements of
9-1C-5 H. Post Decision Procedures will apply to projects submitted under the
objective design standards provisions.
M.   Bonuses and Concessions for Affordable Housing:
   1.   Purpose: This section establishes procedures to implement state law as
set forth in Government Code sections 65915 to 65918 for affordable housing.
The incentives in this section are used by the city as a means of meeting its
commitment to encourage the provision of affordable housing to all economic
groups living within the community.
   2.   Application: An application for any bonus or concession for affordable
housing must be filed with an application for a major site plan review.
   3.   Applicability: The provisions of this section apply only to multi-
family residential and mixed-use development projects consisting of five (5) or
more dwelling units not including units granted as a density bonus.
   4.   Approval Authority: The city council acts on bonuses and concessions
for affordable housing and may, unless otherwise expressly stated in this
section:
      a.   Approve the bonus or concession described in the application.
      b.   Deny the bonus or concession described in the application.
      c.   Approve one or more bonuses or concessions and deny one (1) or more
other bonuses and concessions, if more than one (1) bonus or concession is
described in the application.
   5.   Public Hearing: A public hearing for an affordable housing bonus or
concession will be held pursuant to section
9-1C-5-D Public Hearings.
   6.   Notice: Notice for an affordable housing bonus or concession public
hearing must occur in compliance with section
9-1C-5-E Notice.
   7.   Post Decision Procedures: Procedures and requirements of section
9-1C-5-H Post Decision Procedures will apply to an affordable housing bonus or
concession.
   8.   Density Bonus for Affordable Housing:
      a.   Eligibility: A density bonus will be granted only if an applicant
seeks and agrees to construct a development with at least one (1) of the
following attributes:
         (1)   At least ten percent (10%) of the total dwelling units for lower
income households, as defined in section 50079.5 of the Health and Safety Code.
         (2)   At least five percent (5%) of the total dwelling units for very
low-income households, as defined in section 50105 of the Health and Safety
Code.
         (3)   Senior citizen housing, as defined in sections 51.3 and 51.12 of
the Civil Code, or mobile homes that limits residency based on age requirements
for housing for older persons pursuant to section 798.76 or 799.5 of the Civil
Code.
         (4)   At least ten percent (10%) of the total dwelling units in a
common interest development, as defined in section 4100 of the Civil Code, for
persons and families of moderate income, as defined in section 50093 of the
Health and Safety Code, provided that all units in the development are offered
to the public for purchase.
      b.   Allowance: The number of total dwelling units, not including units
granted as a density bonus, will be used in calculating the number of
affordable dwelling units required for a density bonus.
         (1)   The density bonus for providing dwelling units affordable to low
income households will be calculated as follows:
 
Percentage Low Income Units Percentage Density Bonus
10                          20
11                          21.5
12                          23
13                          24.5
14                          26
15                          27.5
17                          30.5
18                          32
19                          33.5
20                          35
 
         (2)   The density bonus for providing dwelling units affordable to
very low-income households will be calculated as follows:
 
Percentage Very Low-Income Units Percentage Density Bonus
5                                20
6                                22.5
7                                25
8                                27.5
9                                30
10                               32.5
11                               35
 
         (3)   The density bonus for providing dwelling units in common
interest development affordable to moderate income households will be
calculated as follows:
 
Percentage Moderate-Income Units Percentage Density Bonus
10                               5
11                               6
12                               7
13                               8
14                               9
15                               10
16                               11
17                               12
18                               13
19                               14
20                               15
21                               16
22                               17
23                               18
24                               19
25                               20
26                               21
27                               22
28                               23
29                               24
30                               25
31                               26
32                               27
33                               28
34                               29
35                               30
36                               31
37                               32
38                               33
39                               34
40                               35
 
         (4)   The density bonus for a senior housing development with thirty-
five (35) or more dwelling units dedicated for occupancy by persons aged fifty-
five (55) and older and those residing with them must be twenty percent (20%).
         (5)   Bonuses Not Combined: The density bonuses that are available to
a development under this section must not be combined.
      c.   Approval Authority: A density bonus is not considered discretionary;
however, projects that include a request for a density bonus will be subject to
a major site plan review by the city council and the hearing, noticing, appeal,
and post decision procedure requirements pursuant to section
9-1C-1-6-C, Major Site Plan Review.
   9.   Density Bonus for Donation of Land:
      a.   Eligibility: An applicant for a tentative subdivision map, parcel
map, or other residential development approval who donates land to the city or
to the city-approved affordable housing developer which is suitable for the
development of dwelling units affordable to very low-income households will be
entitled to a bonus in residential density for the entire development above the
density otherwise allowable under this Zoning Code and the land use element of
the General Plan.
      b.   Allowance: The density bonus for donation of land for development of
dwelling units affordable to very low-income households will be based on the
number of such affordable dwelling units that can be developed on the donated
land as a percentage of the otherwise maximum residential density allowed for
the development, calculated as follows:
 
Percentage Very Low Income Percentage Density Bonus
10                         15
11                         16
12                         17
13                         18
14                         19
15                         20
16                         21
17                         22
18                         23
19                         24
20                         25
21                         26
22                         27
23                         28
24                         29
25                         30
26                         31
27                         32
28                         33
29                         34
30                         35
 
      c.   Bonuses May Be Combined: A density bonus for the donation of land
may be combined with a density bonus granted under section
9-1C-6-L-9, Density Bonus for Affordable Housing, of this section up to a
maximum combined density bonus of thirty-five percent (35%).
      d.   Requirements for Density Bonus: The donation of land must meet all
the following requirements to be eligible for a density bonus:
         (1)   The applicant must donate and transfer the land no later than
the date of approval of the final tract or parcel map, or application for the
construction of residential units.
         (2)   The developable acreage and zoning classification of the land
being transferred must be sufficient to permit construction of units affordable
to very low-income households in an amount not less than ten percent (10%) of
the number of residential units of the proposed development.
         (3)   The transferred land must be at least one (1) acre in size or of
sufficient size to permit development of at least forty (40) dwelling units,
has the appropriate General Plan designation, is appropriately zoned for
development as affordable housing, and is or will be served by adequate public
facilities and infrastructure.
         (4)   The transferred land must be subject to development standards
that would allow feasible development of the affordable units. No later than
the date of approval of the final subdivision map, parcel map, or of the
residential development, the transferred land must have all the permits and
approvals, other than building permits, necessary for development of the very
low-income housing units on the transferred land.
         (5)   The transferred land and the affordable units must be subject to
a deed restriction approved by the city attorney ensuring continued
affordability of the units, consistent with section 9-1C-6-L-15, Enforcement of
Affordability and Eligibility, of this section.
         (6)   The land must be transferred to the city of Temple City or to a
housing developer approved by the City of Temple City.
         (7)   The transferred land must be located within the boundary of the
proposed development or, with approval of the city council, within one-fourth
(1/4) mile of the boundary of the proposed development.
         (8)   A bonus must not be granted unless a source of funding for the
very low-income units has been identified not later than the date of approval
of the final parcel or tract map or application for the construction of
residential units.
   10.   Concessions and Other Incentives:
      a.   Eligibility and Allowance: An applicant who utilizes the density
bonus provisions of this section may request one (1) or more concessions or
other incentives as follows:
         (1)   One (1) concession or other incentive for developments that
dedicate at least five percent (5%) of the dwelling units for affordable
occupancy by very low income households, ten percent (10%) of the dwelling
units for affordable occupancy by low income households, or ten percent (10%)
of the dwelling units for affordable occupancy by moderate income households
when all of the units in the development are available for sale to the public,
including the affordable units.
         (2)   Two (2) concessions or other incentives for developments that
dedicate at least ten percent (10%) of the dwelling units for affordable
occupancy by very low income households, twenty percent (20%) of the dwelling
units for affordable occupancy by low income households, or twenty percent
(20%) of the dwelling units for affordable occupancy by moderate income
households when all of the units in the development are available for sale to
the public, including the affordable units.
         (3)   Three concessions or other incentives for developments that
dedicate at least fifteen percent (15%) of the dwelling units for affordable
occupancy by very low income households, thirty percent (30%) of the dwelling
units for affordable occupancy by low income households, or thirty percent
(30%) of the dwelling units for affordable occupancy by moderate income
households when all of the units in the development are available for sale to
the public, including the affordable units.
      b.   Types of Concessions or Other Incentives: An affordable housing
concession or other incentive must include the following:
         (1)   A modification in site development standards, zoning code
requirements, or architectural design requirements including, but not limited
to, a reduction in setback and square footage requirements and in the ratio of
vehicular parking spaces that would otherwise be required that results in
identifiable, financially sufficient, and actual cost reductions, provided the
modified provisions meet the minimum building standards approved by the
California Building Standards Commission as provided in Part 2.5 (commencing
with section 18901) of Division 13 of the Health and Safety Code.
         (2)   Approval of mixed-use zoning if commercial, office, industrial,
or other land uses will reduce the cost of the residential development and if
the commercial, office, industrial, or other land uses are compatible with the
residential development and existing and planned development near the proposed
mixed-use project.
         (3)   Other regulatory concessions or other incentives proposed by the
city or the applicant that result in identifiable, financially sufficient, and
actual cost reductions.
      c.   Decision and Findings of Fact: The city council must grant a
concession or other incentive requested by the applicant unless the city
council makes a written finding, based on substantial evidence, of any of the
following:
         (1)   The concession or other incentive is not required to provide for
affordable housing costs, as defined in section 50052.5 of the Health and
Safety Code.
         (2)   The concession or other incentive would have a specific adverse
impact, as defined in 65589.5 of the California Government Code, upon public
health and safety or the physical environment or on any real property that is
listed in the California Register of Historical Resources and for which there
is no feasible method to satisfactorily mitigate or avoid the specific adverse
impact without rendering the development unaffordable to low- and moderate-
income households.
         (3)   The concession or other incentive would be contrary to state or
federal law.
   11.   Waiver of Development Standards:
      a.   Eligibility and Allowance: If compliance with a development standard
would physically preclude construction of a residential or mixed-use project
utilizing a density bonus, and any concession or other incentive pursuant to
this section, the applicant may submit a proposal for waiver or reduction of
the development standard.
      b.   Findings of Fact: A waiver of development standard permit must be
approved upon making all the following findings of fact:
         (1)   The waiver or reduction in a development standard is required
for construction of the development project at the density to which the project
is entitled and with all concessions or other incentives approved for the
project.
         (2)   The waiver or reduction in a development standard will not have
a specific adverse impact on public health, public safety, or the physical
environment, and will not have an adverse impact on a property that is listed
in the California register of historical resources. A specific adverse impact
is a significant, quantifiable, direct, and unavoidable impact, based on
objective, identified written public health or safety standards, policies, or
conditions as they existed on the date the application was deemed complete.
         (3)   The waiver or reduction in a development standard is necessary
because application of the development standards would physically preclude
construction of a project utilizing a density bonus, concession or other
incentive.
   12.   Child Daycare Center Bonus or Concession:
      a.   Eligibility and Allowance: An application for a development project
that complies with the density bonus requirement of this section and includes a
child daycare center that will be located on the premises as part of the
project, or at a location adjacent to the project, may request one additional
bonus or concession as follows:
         (1)   Additional net floor area for dwelling units that is equal to or
greater than the net floor area in the child daycare center.
         (2)   A concession that contributes significantly to the economic
feasibility of the construction of the child daycare center.
      b.   Findings of Fact: A child daycare bonus or concession must be
approved upon making all the following findings of fact:
         (1)   The bonus or concession would contribute significantly to the
economic feasibility of the construction of the child daycare center.
         (2)   The bonus or concession would not have a specific adverse impact
on public health, public safety, or the physical environment, and would not
have an adverse impact on a property that is listed in the California register
of historical resources. A specific adverse impact is a significant,
quantifiable, direct, and unavoidable impact, based on objective, identified
written public health or safety standards, policies, or conditions as they
existed on the date the application was deemed complete.
      c.   Conditions of Approval: The child daycare center must comply with
conditions of approval as follows:
         (1)   The child daycare center must remain in operation for a period
of time that is equal to or longer than the period during which the dwelling
units in the development that are dedicated for affordable occupancy are
required to remain affordable.
         (2)   Of the children who attend the child daycare center, the
children from households of very low income, low income, or moderate income
must equal a percentage that is equal to or greater than the percentage of
dwelling units in the development that are dedicated for affordable occupancy
by households of very low, low or moderate income.
   13.   Alternative Parking Standards:
      a.   Eligibility and Allowance: An applicant that is entitled to a
density bonus may request the following alternative parking standards for the
development:
         (1)   Zero (0) to one (1) bedroom: one (1) onsite parking space per
dwelling unit.
         (2)   Two (2) to three (3) bedrooms: two (2) onsite parking spaces per
dwelling unit.
         (3)   Four (4) and more bedrooms: two and one-half (2-1/2) parking
spaces per dwelling unit.
         (4)   Five tenths (0.5) spaces per bedroom if a development includes
at least twenty percent (20%) low income units or eleven percent (11%) very
low-income units and is located within one-half (1/2) mile of a major transit
stop, as defined in subdivision (b) of section 21155 of the Public Resources
Code, and there is unobstructed access to the major transit stop from the
development.
      b.   Affordable Rental Units: If a development consists solely of rental
units, exclusive of a manager's unit or units, with an affordable housing cost
to lower income families, as provided in section 50052.5 of the Health and
Safety Code, then, upon the request of the applicant, the maximum parking
standard, inclusive of handicapped and guest parking must not exceed:
         (1)   Five tenths (0.5) spaces per unit, if the development is located
within one-half (1/2) mile of a major transit stop, as defined in subdivision
(b) of section 21155 of the Public Resources Code, and there is unobstructed
access to the major transit stop from the development.
         (2)   Five tenths (0.5) spaces per unit If the development is a for-
rent housing development for individuals who are sixty-two (62) years of age or
older that complies with sections 51.2 and 51.3 of the California Civil Code.
The development must have either paratransit service or unobstructed access,
within one-half (1/2) mile, to fixed bus route service that operates at least
eight (8) times per day.
         (3)   0.3 spaces per unit if the development is a special needs
housing development, as defined in section 51312 of the Health and Safety Code.
The development must have either paratransit service or unobstructed access,
within one-half (1/2) mile, to fixed bus route service that operates at least
eight (8) times per day.
      c.   If the total number of parking spaces required for the development
is other than a whole number, the number will be rounded up to the next whole
number.
      d.   A development may provide onsite parking through tandem parking or
uncovered parking on the development site.
      e.   This section does not preclude the city from reducing or eliminating
a parking requirement for development projects of any type in any location.
      f.   If the city or an independent consultant has conducted an area-wide
or jurisdiction-wide parking study in the last seven years, the city may impose
a higher standard not to exceed the standard described in 9-1C-6.L.14.a, based
upon substantial evidence found in the parking study that includes, but is not
limited to:
         (1)   An analysis of parking availability.
         (2)   Differing levels of transit access.
         (3)   Walkability access to transit services.
         (4)   The potential for shared parking.
         (5)   The effect of parking requirements on the cost of market-rate
and subsidized developments.
         (6)   The lower rates of car ownership for low- and very-low income
individuals, including seniors and special needs individuals.
         (7)   The city must pay the costs of any new study and must make
findings, based on a parking study completed in conformity with this section,
supporting the need for the higher parking ratio.
   14.   Enforcement of Affordability and Eligibility: Before issuance of a
building permit for a development with a density bonus for provision of rental
units affordable, as defined in the Health And Safety Code sections 50053 and
50052.5, to low and/or very low income households, a covenant or other document
approved by the city attorney will be recorded and must ensure that the
dwelling units affordable to low and/or very low income households are at all
times rented or sold at a price affordable to such households with the
applicable income level for at least fifty-five (55) years, all in a manner
consistent with the applicable provisions of Government Code section 65915(c).
   15.   Recapture of Financial Interest: A covenant or other document
satisfactory to the city attorney must be recorded before issuance of a
building permit, which must ensure that for-sale very low, low, or moderate
income density bonus units are offered and initially occupied by persons or
families at a very low, low, or moderate income level, as defined in section
50052.5 and 50053 of the state Health and Safety Code. Very low, low, or
moderate-income units may be offered for subsequent sale to an above very low,
low, or moderate-income purchaser; provided that the sale will result in a
recapture by the city, as follows:
      a.   Upon resale, the seller of the unit must retain the value of any
improvements, the down payment, and the seller's proportionate share of
appreciation. The city will recapture any initial subsidy and its proportionate
share of appreciation.
      b.   The city's initial subsidy must be equal to the fair market value of
the home at the time of initial sale minus the initial sale price to the
moderate-income household, plus the amount of any down payment assistance or
mortgage assistance. If upon resale the market value is lower than the initial
market value, then the value at the time of the resale will be used as the
initial market value.
      c.   The city's proportionate share will be the ratio of the city's
initial subsidy to the fair market value of the home at the time of initial
sale.
      d.   The city's proportionate share must be used within five (5) years
for any purposes that promote homeownership, as described in subdivision (e) of
section 33334.2 of the state Health and Safety Code.
   16.   Ineligibility: An applicant will be ineligible for a density bonus or
any other incentives or concessions under this section if a housing development
or condominium project is proposed on any property that includes a parcel or
parcels on which rental dwelling units are or, if the dwelling units have been
vacated or demolished in the five (5)-year period preceding the application,
have been subject to a recorded covenant, ordinance, or law that restricts
rents to levels affordable to persons and families of lower or very low income;
subject to any other form of rent or price control through a public entity's
valid exercise of its police power; or occupied by lower or very low income
households, unless the proposed housing development replaces those units,
consistent with California Government Code section 65915(c)(3).
   17.   Forfeiture of Funds: Any individual who rents out a dwelling unit in
violation of this section will be required to forfeit all rents above the
applicable affordable rate and any individual who sells a unit in violation of
this section will be required to forfeit all profits from the sale exceeding
the difference between the sale price and the applicable affordable sales
price. Recovered funds must be deposited in a city fund that is intended to
support development of affordable housing in the community.
   18.   Implementation: The city manager or the city manager's designee may
adopt administrative procedures for implementation of this section.
(Ord. 13-972; amd. Ord. 19-1036; Ord. 20-1040U; Ord. 20-1048; Ord. 22-1068;
Ord. 23-1069)
9-1C-7: ENFORCEMENT:
A.   Violations:
   1.   Any person violating the provisions or failing to comply with any of
the requirements of this zoning code will be guilty of a misdemeanor, except as
specified in section
9-1C-6-M-4 Infractions.
   2.   Any person convicted of a misdemeanor, under the provisions of this
Zoning Code, will be punishable by a fine of not more than five hundred dollars
($500.00), or by imprisonment in the city or county jail for a period not
exceeding six (6) months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
   3.   Each such person will be guilty of a separate offense for each and
every day during any portion of which any violation of any provision of this
zoning code is committed, continued, or permitted by such person and will be
punishable accordingly.
   4.   In addition to the penalties herein provided, any condition caused or
permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this Code will be
deemed a public nuisance and may be abated in the manner provided by law as
such. Every day such condition continues will be regarded as a new and separate
offense.
B.   Abatement:
   1.   Any building or structure erected, built, moved, maintained or used,
including the use of any property, contrary to the provisions of this Zoning
Code following the effective date of this Zoning Code is hereby declared to be
unlawful and a public nuisance.
   2.   The city attorney must, upon order of the city council, commence
proceedings for the abatement and/or removal thereof, in the manner provided by
law; the city attorney will take such steps as may be necessary to abate and
remove such building, structure or use and restrain and enjoin any person from
erecting, building, moving, or maintaining any such building or structure, or
using any property contrary to any of the provisions of this chapter.
C.   Cumulative Remedies: All remedies provided for in this chapter will be
cumulative and not exclusive.
D.   Infractions: Pursuant to the provisions of Government Code section 36900,
the city manager or other designated city official may enforce the first and
second violations of this code as "infractions", while any subsequent
violations will be deemed and enforced as "misdemeanors".
E.   Infraction Assessment:
   1.   A violation of any provisions of this Zoning Code expressly enforced as
an infraction will be punishable by a fine not to exceed that allowable by
California state law, as set forth by city council resolution.
   2.   Failure to pay any penalty assessment imposed pursuant to the
provisions of this Zoning Code will constitute a separate misdemeanor
violation. (Ord. 19-1036)
ARTICLE D. NONCONFORMITIES
SECTION:
9-1D-1: General Nonconforming Provisions
9-1D-2: Nonconforming Lots
9-1D-3: Nonconforming Structures
9-1D-4: Nonconforming Uses
9-1D-5: Other Specific Nonconforming Provisions
9-1D-1: GENERAL NONCONFORMING PROVISIONS:
A.   Establishment of Legal Nonconforming Status:
   1.   The provisions of this article will regulate the continuation,
termination, and modification of lots, structures, and uses which were lawfully
established, but which no longer conform to the provisions of this Zoning Code
due to a change in zone boundaries or a change in the regulations for the zone
in which it is located. A mere change in ownership or tenancy without any
change in use, occupancy, or development will not affect any of the legal
nonconforming rights, privileges, and responsibilities provided under this
article.
   2.   Lots, structures, and uses not having previously acquired proper
permits are illegal and subject to immediate abatement.
   3.   Any nonconforming situation that becomes specifically authorized under
the terms of some approval pursuant to this Zoning Code, other than approval of
an extension, expansion, change, or early termination of nonconformity, will
henceforth be governed by the terms of such approval and will no longer be
considered to be a nonconformity unless and until such approval expires or is
revoked.
B.   Continuation and Maintenance:
   1.   Continuation: Except as otherwise provided herein, any lot, structure,
or use legally in place on the effective date of any ordinance creating the
nonconformity may continue as a legal nonconforming lot, structure, or use,
respectively.
   2.   Maintenance: Routine maintenance and repairs of lots and structures
which do not increase the nonconformity may be performed.
C.   Determination, Extension, and Abatement Procedures:
   1.   Authority: The planning manager will be the designated review authority
for determining that a lot, structure, or use is nonconforming, and the
planning commission will be the designated review authority for action on the
abatement procedures and extensions of the nonconforming lots, structures, or
uses.
   2.   Notice and Hearing: Once the planning manager has determined that a
lot, structure, or use is nonconforming, the planning manager will provide
required notice for hearing and action by the planning commission. The purpose
of the hearing is to determine whether the nonconformity should be abated,
given a specific term prior to abatement, or granted a time extension. Notice
and hearing will be performed and conducted pursuant to Sections
9-1C-5-D, Public Hearings and
9-1C-5-E, Hearings.
   3.   Decision and Findings: The Planning Commission will base its decision
as to the length of the permitted amortization period on any competent evidence
presented, included but not limited to the depreciation schedule attached to
the owner's latest federal income tax return. Findings will be made as to
whether or not the balancing of the public interest and the request by the
owner for continuance, alteration, or expansion of the nonconformity of the
subject property requires a deviation from the city's development standards.
Findings will be made in writing and provided to the property owner within ten
(10) days after the decision is rendered.
   4.   Appeal: Actions taken by the Planning Commission may be appealed to the
Council in accordance with provisions of Section
9-1C-5-G, Appeals.
   5.   Extension of Time: The Review Authority, at its discretion, may grant
an extension of time for the abatement of a nonconformity where it finds that
an unreasonable hardship would otherwise be imposed on the property or business
owner.
   6.   Revocation of Nonconforming Use or Structure: The city may revoke the
right to continue a nonconforming use or structure. Revocation procedures,
including notice and hearing, will be in accordance with the provisions of
Section
9-1C-5-H-8, Permit Modifications and Revocations section.
   7.   No Reversion to Nonconformance: When any nonconformity is eliminated or
brought into conformance with the current regulations of this zoning code, the
nonconforming rights and privileges with respect to that nonconformity are
terminated and will not be restored. (Ord. 19-1036)
9-1D-2: NONCONFORMING LOTS:
A.   Continuation of Legal Nonconforming Lots: Any lawfully created lot which
becomes nonconforming with regard to lot area, street frontage, lot width, lot
depth, or accessibility may continue indefinitely with such nonconformity and
may be developed and used as if it were a conforming lot.
B.   Modification of Legal Nonconforming Lots: Legal nonconforming lots may not
be modified in any manner that increases the degree of nonconformity. Where
feasible, parcel modifications (through lot merger or lot line adjustment) are
encouraged to eliminate or minimize the degree of nonconformity. (Ord. 19-1036)
9-1D-3: NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES:
A.   Continuation of Legal Nonconforming Structures:
   1.   Continuation of Structure: Any legally established nonconforming
structure that does not conform to the provisions of this Zoning Code with
regard to maximum permitted height, minimum required setback, lot coverage,
floor area ratio, and/or maximum permitted encroachment into required yard
areas may be continued indefinitely.
   2.   Exceptions: The following are the exceptions to the indefinite
continuation of a legal nonconforming structure:
      a.   Residential Structures: Any increase in the number of residential
units for buildings designed and occupied for residential use will be
prohibited.
      b.   Utilities: Any new or replacement utility/mechanical facilities,
equipment, or construction will conform to the maximum extent feasible, as
determined by the planning manager.
      c.   Encroachments in Commercial Zones: Within the commercial zones, any
nonconforming encroachment into required yards may be required to be removed or
reduced upon review by the review authority when an expansion in floor area
which is greater than fifty percent (50%) of the existing floor area is
proposed for any structure maintaining a nonconforming encroachment; or when an
expansion in floor area is proposed anywhere within an integrated development
which is greater than fifty percent (50%) of the total floor area of all
structures within the integrated development.
      d.   Trash Facilities, Outdoor Storage, And Display: Trash areas or
facilities, outdoor storage areas, and outdoor display areas will be made fully
conforming at the time of any expansion or intensification of use on the site.
   3.   Modification or Expansion of Legal Nonconforming Structure:
      a.   A legal nonconforming structure will not be modified in a manner
that expands, extends, or enlarges the use in any manner beyond its existing
scope upon the date the nonconformity was created, except as follows:
         (1)   The modifications are, in and of themselves, in conformance with
the provisions of this Zoning Code.
         (2)   The modifications are limited to minor alterations,
improvements, or repairs that do not increase the degree of nonconformity
present and do not constitute or tend to produce an expansion or
intensification of a nonconforming use.
         (3)   The modifications are required by other laws.
         (4)   The modifications are incidental to the public acquisition of a
portion of a site, no greater degree of nonconformity will be created other
than that caused as a result of the public acquisition, and the changed
development will conform to current regulations to the maximum extent feasible.
      b.   No change made to any development or use will be construed as
automatically permitting an extension of any time limit for the termination of
a nonconformity.
   4.   Destruction of Legal Nonconforming Structure: A nonconforming structure
(s) involuntarily damaged or partially destroyed by fire, act of nature, or act
of a public enemy may be repaired or rebuilt and re-occupied only as follows:
      a.   If the cost of repairing or replacing the damaged portion of the
structure(s) does not exceed fifty percent (50%) of its appraised value, based
on an appraisal which was prepared within the last twelve (12) months by a
licensed appraiser, the structure may be restored, provided the reconstruction
meets current Building Code requirements and the reconstruction begins within
twelve (12) months of the date of damage, unless otherwise allowed by the
planning manager, and is diligently pursued to completion.
      b.   If the cost of repairing or replacing the damaged portion of the
structure(s) does exceed fifty percent (50%) of its appraised value as
determined by an appraisal which was prepared within the last twelve (12)
months by a licensed appraiser, the structure may not be restored.
      c.   Discontinuance of Legal Nonconforming Structure. If any legal
nonconforming structure is abandoned or the use thereof discontinued for a
period of one hundred eighty (180) consecutive days or more, subsequent
development of the land will be in conformity with the provisions of this
Zoning Code. Maintenance of a valid business license will of itself not be
considered a continuation of the use.
      d.   Off-Site Relocation. When a structure is relocated to another lot,
it will be made conforming in all respects with the provisions of this Zoning
Code and all other applicable laws and regulations. (Ord. 19-1036)
9-1D-4: NONCONFORMING USES:
A.   Continuation of Legal Nonconforming Uses: Except as otherwise listed
below, a legal nonconforming use may continue indefinitely.
   1.   Nonconforming, single-family uses south of Lower Azusa Road and west of
Ellis Lane and east of Linden Lane which are zoned as Low Mixed Use but are
developed with single-family uses are considered nonconforming uses and may
continue on the property until a development plan for the property consistent
with the General Plan designation of the property is approved. Existing R-
1 structures may be repaired and reestablished if damaged subject to compliance
with standards provided in the R-1 Zone.
   2.   Nonconforming multi-family uses in the R-1 zone may not add additional
units to the property. Additional living area may be expanded for units of non-
conforming multi-family.
   3.   Nonconforming use eligible for Conditional Use Permit or other
approval. Any nonconforming use that is eligible to be considered for a
Conditional Use Permit or other discretionary approval under this Zoning Code
is considered a nonconforming use unless and until such permit or other such
approval is granted.
B.   Modifications and Extensions to Legal Nonconforming Uses:
   1.   A legal nonconforming use will not be modified in any manner that
expands, extends, or enlarges the use beyond its existing scope upon the date
the nonconformity was created, except as specified below.
      a.   The changes are limited to minor alterations, improvements, or
repairs that do not increase the degree of nonconformity present and do not
constitute or tend to produce an expansion or intensification of a
nonconforming use.
      b.   The changes are required by other laws.
      c.   The changes are incident to the public acquisition of a portion of a
site, no greater degree of nonconformity will be created other than that caused
as a result of the public acquisition, and the changed development will conform
to current regulations to the maximum extent feasible.
   2.   No change made to any development or use will be construed as
automatically permitting an extension of any time limit for the termination of
a nonconformity.
C.   Discontinuance of Legal Nonconforming Use:
   1.   If any legal nonconforming use is discontinued for a period of one
hundred eighty (180) consecutive days or more, subsequent use of the land will
be in conformity with the provisions of this Zoning Code. Maintenance of a
valid business license will of itself not be considered a continuation of the
use.
   2.   This section will not apply to any use for which a different period of
discontinuance or abandonment is specified under other provisions of this
Zoning Code. (Ord. 19-1036)
9-1D-5: OTHER SPECIFIC NONCONFORMING PROVISIONS:
A.   Nonconformities Regarding Parking and Loading:
   1.   Parking Spaces and Improvements: A use that does not conform with the
parking standards of the zoning district in which it is located will not be
deemed a nonconforming use solely for these reasons.
   2.   Loading Spaces: Any nonconformity with respect to loading areas may
continue indefinitely, except that with any change, expansion, or
intensification of use, the additional loading areas required for such change,
expansion, or intensification will be fully conforming.
   3.   Parking Lot Landscaping: Upon a review for any expansion,
intensification, or reconfiguration of an existing parking lot, the designated
Review Authority may require that any nonconformity with respect to interior
landscaping and landscaped yards along streets and alleys for parking lots be
made conforming to the fullest extent feasible.
B.   Nonconformities Regarding Garages:
   1.   Any lawfully created use that becomes nonconforming with regard to
garages, including but not limited to the number of parking spaces, may
continue indefinitely with such nonconformity if such use continues as
permitted. However, upon any change in land use, occupancy, or expansion of the
use or structure, adequate off-street parking will be provided in conformance
with the requirements set forth in Article E, Off-Street Parking and Loading.
   2.   Garages that have illegally converted to habitable rooms are strictly
prohibited. This section does not apply to legal accessory dwelling units.
C.   Nonconformities Regarding Landscaping: Any lawfully created use that
becomes nonconforming with regard to landscaping, including, but not limited
to, site coverage, parking lot coverage, distribution, installation, or
maintenance, may continue indefinitely with such nonconformity if such use
continues as permitted. However, upon performing any improvements to the lot
exceeding fifty percent (50%) of the total appraised value of the existing
property, as determined by a licensed appraiser, landscaping will be provided
in conformance with the requirements set forth in Title 9, Chapter 1 (Zoning
Code).
D.   Nonconformities Regarding Fencing Materials:
   1.   Legally established nonconforming fencing material will be allowed to
continue. Where the nonconforming fencing material is to be replaced with a new
fencing material, it will be subject to the requirements in the zoning district
sections. However, any legal nonconforming chain-link fencing in residential
zones will be subject to abatement within one (1) year of the date that such
materials were rendered nonconforming.
   2.   Any fences and landscaped buffers that are required along property
lines will be provided at the time of any expansion or intensification of a
nonresidential use.
E.   Nonconformities Regarding Signs: Legally established nonconforming signs
will be allowed to continue, subject to the compliance with Section
9-1F-16, Nonconforming Signs.
F.   Nonconforming Environmental Effects:
   1.   Off-Site Impacts: Any nonconformity with respect to environmental
effects upon surrounding property (such as lighting or noise) will be made
conforming within three (3) years after the date of becoming nonconforming.
   2.   On-Site Impacts: Any nonconformity with respect to an environmental
effect upon the premises where the source of the effect is located may continue
indefinitely.
G.   Nonconformities Regarding Safety and Access:
   1.   Corner Cutback Areas: Nonconforming obstructions to the required clear
visibility triangle, including landscaping, fencing, walls, signage, artwork,
and similar features but specifically excluding buildings, will be removed or
made conforming within one (1) year after the date of becoming nonconforming.
See section
9-1N-2 (Corner Cutback Areas).
   2.   Access: Nonconforming driveways or other vehicular access arrangements
may continue indefinitely, except that with any expansion or intensification of
use, the access serving such expansion or intensification will be made fully
conforming.
H.   Nonconformities Not Requiring Capital Expenditure or Loss to Conform:
Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, any nonconformity which
can be made conforming without requiring that a capital expenditure be made, or
a capital loss incurred, will be made conforming within one (1) year after the
date of becoming nonconforming.
I.   Multi-Family Uses and Structures:
   1.   A lawfully created multi-family structure and use may be reconstructed,
restored, or rebuilt if it is determined by the Director that the structure and
use was involuntarily damaged or destroyed by fire, other catastrophic event,
or the public enemy. This provision does not apply to multi-family structures
and uses in the City’s Industrial Zone.
   2.   The reconstruction, restoration, or rebuilding may be prohibited if the
Director determines that:
      a.   The reconstruction, restoration, or rebuilding will be detrimental
or injurious to the health, safety, or general welfare of persons residing or
working in the neighborhood, or will be detrimental or injurious to property
and improvements in the neighborhood.
      b.   The existing nonconforming use of the building or structure would be
more appropriately moved to a zone in which the use is permitted, or that there
no longer exists a zone in which the existing nonconforming use is permitted.
   3.   The dwelling may be reconstructed, restored, or rebuilt up to its pre-
damaged size and number of dwelling units, and its nonconforming use, if any,
may be resumed.
   4.   Any reconstruction, restoration, or rebuilding must conform to all the
following:
      a.   The California Building Standards Code as that code was in effect at
the time of reconstruction, restoration, or rebuilding.
      b.   Any more restrictive local building standards authorized pursuant to
Sections 13869.7, 17958.7, and 18941.5 of the Health and Safety Code , as those
standards were in effect at the time of reconstruction, restoration, or
rebuilding.
      c.   The State Historical Building Code (Part 2.7 (commencing with
Section 18950) of Division 13 of the Health and Safety Code) for work on
qualified historical buildings or structures.
      d.   The Zoning Code, so long as the pre-damage size and number of
dwelling units are maintained.
      e.   Architectural regulations and standards, so long as the pre-damage
size and number of dwelling units are maintained.
      f.   A building permit must be obtained within two years after the date
of the damage or destruction. (Ord. 19-1036; amd. Ord. 22-1060)
ARTICLE E. OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIRED
SECTION:
9-1E-1: Parking Spaces Required
9-1E-2: Parking Space Standards
9-1E-3: Landscape Standards For Parking Lots
9-1E-4: Parking Design Criteria
9-1E-5: Alternative Parking Strategies
9-1E-6: Loading
9-1E-1: PARKING SPACES REQUIRED:
A.   Off-Street Parking Space Requirements:
   1.   Unless off-street parking reductions are allowed in compliance with the
Zoning Code, off-street parking spaces will be provided in compliance with
Table 9-1E-1, Off-Street Parking Requirements. These standards will be
considered the minimum and maximum required to preserve the public health,
safety, and welfare of the community. An increase or decrease in the parking
requirements may be determined circumstances where these requirements are
inadequate for a specific project. These cases will be determined through a
parking study as outlined in this article.
   2.   Calculation/rounding of quantities. When the calculation of the
required number of off-street parking spaces results in a fraction greater than
or equal to 0.50 of a space, the total number of spaces will be rounded up to
the nearest whole number. If the fraction is less than 0.50 of a space, the
total number of spaces will be rounded down to the nearest whole number. In no
case will the required number of parking spaces be less than one parking space
per commercial space. For multiple uses, the parking number should be added
together after rounding.
   3.   Change Of Use: No additional parking will be required when a new use
has the same or a lesser parking requirement as the previous use, and the
current number of on-site parking spaces is less than the minimum required by
the code. This applies even in cases where the cumulative number of parking
spaces in a shopping center exceeds the minimum required by the code.
B.   Uses Not Listed: The number of parking spaces required for uses not
specifically listed in
Table 9-1E-1 will be determined by the planning manager based on common
functional, product, or compatibility characteristics and activities with the
uses listed in
Table 9-1E-1.
C.   Parking Requirement Determined by Parking Study: In the event the proposed
land use is for a multi-tenant development, a mixed use development, a use in
the Downtown Core zone utilizing public parking, or involves a Specific Plan or
Planned Development Permit, the planning manager may authorize the preparation
of a parking study to determine the required number of parking spaces as an
alternative to the number of off-street parking as outlined in Table 9-1E-1 and
other applicable provisions of this article, subject to the following
conditions:
   1.   Parking determined by a parking study will be approved, modified and/or
denied by the commission pursuant to a conditional use permit as authorized and
processed under the provisions of this article.
   2.   The city has the right to select a consultant, which will be paid for
by the applicant.
   3.   The study will have been undertaken and completed by a traffic engineer
registered by the State of California and will bear the stamp of that engineer.
D.   Multiple Tenants - Commercial Sites: Except as otherwise provided in this
article, for each separate use, a site with multi-tenants, or a combination of
principal uses in any one facility, the development will provide the aggregate
number of parking spaces required for each separate use, unless a parking study
has been prepared and approved pursuant to this article or except as provided
for in off-site shared parking.
E.   Mixed-Use with Residential:
   1.   The number of parking stalls will be as outlined in
Table 9-1E-1.
   2.   Any required guest parking for the residential uses may be provided
through the required commercial parking, so long as it is not time restricted
and allowed overnight.
   3.   The parking for the residential use which is required to be in a fully
enclosed garage pursuant to
Table 9-1E-1 may be provided within an underground or aboveground parking
structure rather than a garage.
   4.   Except for guest parking, parking for the residential uses will be
provided and maintained separate and secure from the on-site commercial
parking.
F.   Off-Street Parking Space Requirements: The following minimum and maximum
number of off-street parking spaces will be provided as indicated in
Table 9-1E-1 for each of the following uses.
 
Table 9-1E-1
Off-Street Parking Requirements
Use Type                         Auto Min.      Auto Max        Bicycle
Residential Uses
Dwelling, Artist studio/live     1 per 333 sq.                  
work unit                        ft
Group living (6 or less          2 spaces per                   
residents)                       unit
                                 2 per unit & 1
Dwelling, Multi-family           guest space                   2 per 5 units
                                 per 5 units
                                 for guests
Dwelling, Multi-family within    1.5 per unit & 2 per unit & 1
Mixed-Use development            1 guest space  guest space per 2 per 5 units
                                 per 10 units   10 units
                                 2 spaces per
Dwelling, Single-family          unit in a                      
                                 garage
Accessory Dwelling Unit          See Section                    
                                 9-1T-13
Public and Institutional Uses
                                 1 per 285 sq.                  1 per 1,250 sq.
Business/trade/vocational school ft. & 2 drop   125% of minimum ft.
                                 off spaces
Church, temple, and other places 1 per 5 fixed                  1 per 1,250 sq.
of worship                       seats or 1 per 125% of minimum ft.
                                 50 sq. ft.
                                 1 per 3                        1 per 2
College/university               students & 1   125% of minimum students & 1
                                 per 3                          per 10
                                 employees                      employees
Community center                 1 per 400 sq.  125% of minimum 1 per 1,250 sq.
                                 ft.                            ft.
Daycare, adult                   1 per 500 sq.  125% of minimum 1 per 10
                                 ft.                            employees
Child daycare, large (8 - 14     1 per 500 sq.  125% of minimum 1 per 10
children)                        ft.                            employees
Government offices               1 per 333 sq.  125% of minimum 1 per 1,250 sq.
                                 ft.                            ft.
Library or museum                1 per 500 sq.  125% of minimum 1 per 1,250 sq.
                                 ft.                            ft.
Lodges, social clubs, senior     1 per 100 sq.  125% of minimum 1 per 1,250 sq.
citizen or youth center          ft.                            ft.
Pre-school (private)             Set by CUP     Set by CUP      Set by CUP
                                 1 parking
                                 space for each
Elementary or middle school      employee and                   
                                 each faculty
                                 member.
                                 1 parking
                                 space for each
                                 5 students and
High school                      1 parking                      
                                 space for each
                                 faculty member
                                 and employee.
Commercial Uses
Auto-Oriented Businesses
Automobile repair and specialty  1 per 250                      
maintenance shops                square feet.
Automobile, RV, trailer and/or   1 per 1,000                    
boat sales (new or used)         square feet.
                                 2 spaces per
                                 1,000 sq. ft.;
                                 shared parking
Car Wash                         is allowed                     
                                 without a
                                 minor
                                 conditional
                                 use permit.
                                 1 per 200 sq.
Fuel/service station             ft. of office                  
                                 & 1 per
                                 service bay
Office
Professional services (such as
accounting, advertising,
architecture, artist studio,
bookkeeping, business
headquarters, computer
programming, consulting,         1 per 250 sq.  125% of minimum 1 per 2,500 sq.
contracting, engineering,        ft.                            ft.
insurance, law, marketing,
photography, professional care
providers, psychiatry,
psychology, real estate, tax
preparation)
Office, General                  1 per 250 sq.  125% of minimum 1 per 2,500 sq.
                                 ft.                            ft.
Office, Medical, Chiropractic or 1 per 200 sq.  125% of minimum 1 per 2,500 sq.
acupuncture                      ft.                            ft.
Veterinary clinic, general       1 per 333 sq.  125% of minimum 1 per 2,500 sq.
services, and animal care        ft.                            ft.
Personal Services
Bank or financial institution    1 per 250 sq.  125% of minimum 1 per 2,500 sq.
                                 ft.                            ft.
Personal services (barber/beauty
shop, diet/nutrition center,
locksmith, mailbox rental, nail/ 1 per 333 sq.  125% of minimum 1 per 2,500 sq.
manicure shop, bicycle sales/    ft.                            ft.
repair, tailor, shoe repair,
tanning salon, travel agent)
                                 1 per 200 for
                                 large scale
Health/Wellness club, gym,       clubs          125% of minimum 1 per 2,500 sq.
studio, or indoor recreation     1 per 333 sq.                  ft.
                                 ft. for small
                                 studios
Laundromat/Dry Cleaners - except 1 per 333 sq.  125% of minimum 1 per 2,500 sq.
central cleaning facilities      ft.                            ft.
Tattoo parlor                    1 per 333 sq.  125% of minimum 1 per 2,500 sq.
                                 ft.                            ft.
                                 1 per 100 sq.
Art or Music Studio              ft. of         125% of minimum  
                                 instructional
                                 area
Tutoring Facility                1 per 250 sq.  125% of minimum 1 per 2,500 sq.
                                 ft.                            ft.
Restaurant & Food Service
Banquet facility                 1 per 100 sq.  125% of minimum 1 per 2,500 sq.
                                 ft.                            ft.
Bar/Lounge                       1 per 100 sq.  125% of minimum 1 per 2,500 sq.
                                 ft.                            ft.
Restaurant (with or without      1 per 100 sq.  125% of minimum 1 per 2,500 sq.
ancillary alcohol services)      ft.                            ft.
                                 Up to 1,500
                                 sq. ft.: 1 per
                                 250 sq. ft.
                                 1,501 to
                                 1,999: 1 per
                                 250 sq. ft. &
Restaurant, fast food            3 per each 100 125% of minimum 1 per 2,500 sq.
                                 sq. ft. in                     ft.
                                 excess of
                                 1,500. Max of
                                 20.
                                 2,000 or more:
                                 1 per 100 sq.
                                 ft.
Restaurant with dancing and/or   1 per 100 sq.  125% of minimum 1 per 2,500 sq.
other entertainment              ft.                            ft.
Restaurant with drive through    1 per 100 sq.  125% of minimum 1 per 2,500 sq.
facility                         ft.                            ft.
Retail
Bridal Shop                      1 per 333 sq.  125% of minimum 1 per 2,500 sq.
                                 ft.                            ft.
Flower or newspaper stand - not  1 per 333 sq.  125% of minimum 1 per 2,500 sq.
accessory to another use         ft.                            ft.
Public food market               Set by CUP     Set by CUP      Set by CUP
Retail sales (under 6,000 sf)    1 per 333 sq.  125% of minimum 1 per 2,500 sq.
                                 ft.                            ft.
Retail sales (6,000 - 90,000 sf) 1 per 333 sq.  125% of minimum 1 per 2,500 sq.
                                 ft.                            ft.
Retail sales (90,000 - 150,000   1 per 250 sq.  125% of minimum 1 per 2,500 sq.
sf)                              ft.                            ft.
Retail sales (above 150,000 sf)  1 per 250 sq.  125% of minimum 1 per 2,500 sq.
                                 ft.                            ft.
Industrial
Manufacturing and Assembly       1 per 1000 sq. 150% of minimum  
                                 ft.
Warehouse                        1 per 1,500    150% of minimum  
                                 sq. ft.
Wholesale                        1 per 1000 sq. 150% of minimum  
                                 ft.
Other
Cinema/multi-plex or stage       1 per 5 fixed  125% of minimum 1 per 2,500 sq.
theater                          seats                          ft.
Arcade/Internet Café/Electronic 1 per 2        125% of minimum  
Gaming                           machines
Karaoke                          1 per 100 sq.  125% of minimum  
                                 ft.
Hospital/medical facility        3 per bed      125% of minimum 2 per 2,500 sq.
                                                                ft.
Hotel/motel                      1 per room     125% of minimum 3 per 2,500 sq.
                                                                ft.
 
G.   Building Regulations: Concessions regarding off street parking
requirements or site development standards will not include building
regulations adopted pursuant to this code or that are otherwise imposed by
state or federal law.
H.   Authority: The city retains exclusive authority to enter into a parking
concession agreement. The city may choose to enter or reject a parking
concession agreement based on an individualized analysis of the off-site
parking facility at issue. (Ord. 19-1036; amd. Ord. 20-1047; Ord. 21-1056; Ord.
22-1060)
9-1E-2: PARKING SPACE STANDARDS:
A.   Minimum dimensions for parking spaces are shown in
Table 9-1E-2.
 
Table 9-1E-2
Off-Street Vehicle Parking Space Dimensions
                   Size of Parking Stall (min.) Aisle Width
                   Width        Length          One-way        Two-way
Standard Dimensions
Parallel           9 ft.        24 ft.          13 ft.         20 ft.
30-Degree          9 ft.        17 ft.          15 ft.         20 ft.
45-Degree          9 ft.        19 ft.          18 ft.         22 ft.
60-Degree          9 ft.        20 ft.          24 ft.         24 ft.
90-Degree          8 ft., 6 in. 18 ft.          See Footnote 1 25 ft.
Compact            8 ft.        15 ft.          See Standard Dimensions
Tandem (1 space)   10 ft.       20 ft.          See Standard Dimensions
Residential Garage 10 ft.       20 ft.          --             --
Motorcycle         4 ft.        7 ft.           --             --
Bicycle            2 ft.        6 ft.           --             --
1. One-way aisles are prohibited for 90 degree parking.
 
B.   Vertical Obstructions: The width of all parking spaces must comply with
the minimum requirements of this Section and provide a minimum of one foot of
additional clearance on each side of the parking space next to a vertical
obstruction exceeding six inches (6") in height.
C.   Driveway Width: All driveways must meet the minimum and maximum widths
shown in
Table 9-1E-3. For single family houses, the maximum driveway width is limited
to ten feet (10') when a one car garage is located at or near the front setback
or the garage is located to the rear of the lot and twenty feet (20') when a
two (2) car garage is located at or near the front setback.
 
Table 9-1E-3
Driveway Widths
                             Driveway Width (feet)
                             Min.   Max.
Single Family Residential    8 ft.  10 ft. - 20 ft.
Multi-family Residential
Lots with two units          10 ft. 16 ft. (12 ft. of hardscape)
Lots with 25 or fewer spaces 10 ft. --
Lots with 26 or more spaces
   One-way                10 ft. --
   Two-way                20 ft. --
Non-Residential
Lots with 14 or fewer spaces 12 ft. --
Lots with 15 or more spaces
   One-way                12 ft. --
   Two-way                20 ft. --
 
D.   Residential Driveway Requirements:
   1.   All driveways will be clear and unobstructed for a height of twelve
feet (12') above ground.
   2.   Driveways must lead to an approved off-street parking structure, garage
or carport. Where driveways no longer lead to an off-street parking structure,
garage or carport, the driveway approach, curb and gutter will be replaced to
match the adjacent improvements to the satisfaction of the city engineer and
the paved parking surface will be replaced with landscaping.
   3.   Automobiles, recreational vehicles, boats, trailers, or similar
vehicles parked in any front yard or street side yard area of any R zoned lot
must be parked on a paved driveway area leading directly to a legal parking
area or garage.
   4.   Recreational vehicles, boats, trailers, or the like must not be parking
in the front yard setback area for a period of more than one (1) week.
   5.   Recreational vehicles, boats, and the like more than six and one- half
feet (6.5') in height and stored in a driveway behind the front yard setback
must be screened with a six-foot (6') fence or gate.
   6.   A circular type driveway may be constructed provided:
      a.   The lot on which the circular driveway is proposed is at least
ninety feet (90') in width;
      b.   On lots with more than one (1) street frontage, the circular
driveway is located on the street frontage which is ninety feet (90') or
greater;
      c.   The lot on which the driveway is proposed is in the R-1 zone;
      d.   The driveway has, or connects with a driveway which has, direct
access to a legal parking area or structure;
      e.   The entire width of the driveway, at some point thereon, is located
entirely behind the required setback area;
      f.   The driveway does exceed the requirements found in
Table 9-1E-3;
      g.   There is a minimum of thirty feet (30') of full height curb between
the two (2) driveway approaches, measured at their nearest points.
   7.   R-1 zoned properties or properties with single-family uses along Temple
City Boulevard, Rosemead Boulevard, Baldwin Avenue, Santa Anita Avenue, streets
where the posted maximum speed limit is thirty-five (35) miles per hour or
greater, or other locations as determined by the community development
director, where the existing garage and driveway location makes it infeasible
for a vehicle to enter the street in a forward facing direction may provide a
turnaround area nine feet (9') in width, twelve feet (12') in depth, and with
four-foot (4') right triangles adjacent to the turnaround area and the driveway
(see diagram below labeled "Turnaround Area Diagram").
      a.   The paving in the turnaround area shall be decorative concrete
pavers, turf block, or similarly high-quality options approved by the community
development director.
      b.   This turnaround area shall not be used for vehicular parking.
      c.   The turnaround area shall not be combined with walkways in such a
manner as to allow for the creation of a parking space sized area in the front
yard.
      d.    Properties where new development is proposing a garage in the rear
shall provide a turnaround area in the rear portion of the lot to limit the
amount of paving in the front yard.
   Turnaround Area Diagram
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3740.png]
   8.     Residential Backup Space: The backup space for garage parking will be
a function of the width of the garage door opening. The backup dimension shall
comply with the requirements in 
Table 9-1E-4, "Minimum Backup Dimension and Garage Door Width", of this
section. For the purposes of this section, "garage door width" shall be defined
as the clear opening between structural elements. The measurement for backup
space shall follow the "Minimum Backup Dimension and Garage Door Diagram", of
this section. The backup space for a single-family use may protrude into the
sidewalk and parkway portions of the public right-of-way, but not the street.
 
Table 9-1E-4
MINIMUM BACKUP DIMENSION AND GARAGE DOOR WIDTH
2 Spaces 1 Space Minimum Backup Dimension
20 feet  12 feet 20 feet
19 feet  10 feet 22 feet
18 feet  9 feet  24 feet
16 feet  8 feet  28 feet
 
   9.   Alley access: When alley access is available, the access must be taken
from the alley unless approval is granted by the director.
   10.   Oversized Vehicle Parking: No vehicle which is registered for
commercial purposes pursuant to the applicable provisions of the vehicle code
of the State of California and which exceeds three tons in unladen weight must
be parked or left standing on any part of any R-zoned property or any property
where the primary use is residential for more than 30 consecutive minutes,
unless actual loading or unloading of the vehicle is in progress on the
property.
   Minimum Backup Dimension and Garage Door Diagram
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3742.png]
E.   Non-Residential Driveway Requirements:
   1.   Driveway widths will be a minimum of sixteen feet (16') and a maximum
of thirty feet (30').
   2.   Where separate driveways are provided for ingress and egress, the
minimum width for each will be twelve feet (12') and the maximum width for each
will be twenty feet (20'), and the direction of travel will be clearly
indicated on the site by permanent identification.
   3.   All driveways will be clear and unobstructed for a height of twelve
feet (12') above ground.
   4.   Driveways must lead to an approved parking lot, off-street parking
structure, garage or carport. Where driveways no longer lead to an off-street
parking structure, garage or carport, the driveway approach, curb and gutter
will be replaced to match the adjacent improvements to the satisfaction of the
City Engineer and the paved parking surface will be replaced with landscaping.
   5.   The minimum separation distance of any two (2) driveways not on the
same property will be twenty feet (20'). For two (2)-way driveways on the same
property, the minimum distance will be fifty feet (50').
   6.   All driveway access will be from a dedicated street or alley. When
alley access is available, the access must be taken from the alley unless
approval is granted by the director.
   7.   On sites with less than eighty feet (80') of frontage, no more than one
(1) driveway will be permitted. On sites with eighty feet (80') or more of
frontage, additional driveways may be approved through the Site Plan and Design
Review process. On sites that front arterial streets with less than two hundred
feet (200') of frontage, no more than one (1) driveway will be permitted. On
sites with two hundred feet (200') or more of frontage, additional driveways
may be approved through the Site Plan and Design Review process.
F.   Parking Lot Location:
   1.   Except as otherwise allowed herein, all required off-street parking
spaces will always be accessible from a street.
   2.   All required off-street parking spaces will be located on the same lot
or within the same development as the use and/or development requiring such
spaces, except where off-site parking is provided as outlined in Section
9-1E-6 Subsection B, Off-site Shared Parking.
G.   Entrance Driveway and Parking Grades:
   1.   Driveways will not exceed a maximum grade of plus twelve percent (12%)
or minus six percent (-6%) measured along the driveway centerline, unless
approved by City Engineer. Where there is a change in the slope of the
driveway, it will be demonstrated that vehicles will be able to pass over the
change in slope without interference with the vehicle's undercarriage.
   2.   Parking spaces and abutting access aisles will have a maximum grade of
five percent, measured in any direction.
H.   Compact Parking:
   1.   A maximum of fifteen percent (15%) of non-residential off-street
parking spaces may be compact car parking spaces.
   2.   Existing parking lots or properties with approved compact parking
spaces can remain. Compact parking spaces may remain if the parking lot is
restriped.
   3.   Compact parking spaces will be distributed throughout the parking lot,
with a maximum of four spaces in any one (1) location. Where compact parking is
provided strictly for employee parking, all such parking may be in a single
area of the parking lot.
   4.   For developments characterized by distinct, segmented parking areas,
the maximum allowed percentage of compact stalls will apply to each area or
segment of the parking lot. Compacts spaces will not be located adjacent to
retaining walls or other formidable barriers which prevent adequate vehicle
overhang.
   5.   Each compact space will be clearly labeled "COMPACT." Signs may be
painted on the pavement or curb and will be a minimum of one-foot (1') high
letters when painted on the pavement or six-inch (6") high letters when painted
on the curb.
I.   Tandem Parking for Residential:
   1.   For multi-family development projects, tandem spaces will not
constitute more than thirty percent (30") of all required spaces within a
development and will be allowed only for studio, one (1)- and two (2)-bedroom
units. For the purposes of this section only, the parking space which is
accessible without moving a vehicle is not defined as tandem.
   2.   Tandem spaces must be assigned to the same residential unit.
   3.   Each required parking space in a garage must be no less than ten feet
(10') wide and twenty feet (20') long. Tandem parking can be used for the third
and additional parking spaces.
   4.   The minimum dimensions for a tandem space will be as provided in
Table 9-1E-2. Adequate maneuvering room for both vehicles and pedestrians will
be provided around the tandem spaces as necessary.
J.   Tandem Parking for Non-Residential:
   1.   For non-residential development projects, no more than seventy- five
percent (75%) can be two (2) tandem spaces and fifty percent (50%) can be three
(3) tandem spaces. A full-time attendant on duty will be required.
   2.   The minimum dimensions for a tandem space will be as provided in
Table 9-1E-2. Adequate maneuvering room for both vehicles and pedestrians will
be provided around the tandem spaces as necessary.
K.   Markings of Spaces:
   1.   All signing and striping installations will be in conformance with the
city's current standards or as otherwise deemed necessary by the city engineer
to ensure safe and efficient traffic flow in or about any parking facility.
Painted curbs (i.e. loading, passenger drop-off), cannot constitute a required
parking space.
   2.   Vehicular parking spaces will be clearly outlined with four-inch (4")
wide lines painted on the surface of the parking facility. Compact and carpool
spaces will be clearly identified for compact vehicle and carpool usage
respectively.
   3.   Parking spaces for the disabled will be striped and marked according to
the applicable state standards.
L.   Electric Vehicles:
   1.   The city recognizes the importance of encouraging and accommodating the
use of electric and other alternative fuel vehicles as a means of reducing
regional air pollutant emissions. Therefore, this section establishes
guidelines for providing parking facilities that support the use of such
vehicles. As part of the site plan process, special parking facilities will be
provided to accommodate electric or other alternative fuel vehicles.
   2.   Generally, such facilities should be provided where more than one
hundred (100) parking spaces are required per this chapter, or whenever the
redesign of an existing parking lot with two hundred fifty (250) or more spaces
is proposed.
   3.   Where electric vehicle recharging facilities are provided, the
following development standards will apply:
      a.   At least one (1) separate meter panel for the sole purpose of
electric vehicle recharging must be provided and sized to handle the required
electric vehicle recharging spaces.
      b.   Photovoltaic or similar solar power facilities are encouraged to be
integrated into the facility.
      c.   Service equipment, new or existing, of enough size and ampere
capacity to accommodate the additional meter panels must be installed.
      d.   Overhead lighting must be adequate to allow proper and safe
utilization of the recharging equipment. (Ord. 19-1036; amd. Ord. 20-1047; Ord.
22-1060; Ord. 23-1069)
9-1E-3: LANDSCAPE STANDARDS FOR PARKING LOTS:
A.   Landscaping Requirements:
   1.   A minimum of ten percent (10%) of the parking lot area must be
landscaped.
   2.   On lots less than or equal to one hundred fifty feet (150') in width,
the parking lot must have a ten feet (10') minimum landscape perimeter. On lots
greater than or equal to one hundred fifty feet (150') in width, the perimeter
landscape planter shall be ten feet (10') in width on lots. On lots less than
or equal to sixty feet (60'), the director may grant a perimeter less than five
feet (5').
   3.   Areas containing plant materials will be bordered by a concrete curb at
least six inches (6") high and six inches (6") wide and provided with an
automatic irrigation system. Alternative barrier designs may be approved by the
planning manager. End stalls adjacent to parking spaces or other obstructions
will incorporate an additional curbing width of six inches (6").
   4.   Parking lot landscaping will be located so that pedestrians are not
required to cross landscaped areas to reach building entrances from parked
cars. This should be achieved through proper orientation of the landscaped
fingers and islands.
   5.   Planting areas will be as evenly distributed as possible throughout the
entire area.
   6.   The perimeter of a parking area must provide a perimeter landscaped
strip at least five feet (5') wide (inside dimension) where the facility is
adjacent to the street or adjacent to the side or rear property line. The
perimeter landscaped strip may be located within a required setback area. Trees
will be provided at the rate of one for each twenty (20) lineal feet of
landscaped area.
   7.   A solid masonry wall and landscaping will be provided, and maintained,
along the property line adjacent to residential uses.
   8.   Trees will be planted and maintained in all parking lots at a minimum
ratio of one (1) tree for every six (6) parking spaces. Trees will be planted
and maintained throughout the parking facility to ensure that, within fifteen
(15) years after establishment of the parking facility, at least forty percent
(40%) of the parking facility will be shaded.
   9.   Tree planters must be a minimum dimension of four feet by four feet (4'
x 4').
B.   Parking Lot Storm Water Management:
   1.   For new developments with twenty-five (25) or more parking spaces, at
least fifty percent (50%) of the required parking lot landscaping will be
provided as a vegetated swale, vegetated filter strip, rain gardens, or
detention basins with bio-filtration within the parking lot.
   2.   Parking lot drainage will be designed such that all surface runoff
(both piped and overland flow) is conveyed through a vegetated swale, vegetated
filter strip, rain gardens, or detention basins with biofiltration. The parking
lot will provide appropriate curb cuts to allow water to freely enter and exit
parking lot swales.
   3.   All landscaped islands will be situated below the grade of the parking
spaces and driving aisles such that stormwater runoff flow is directed to and
trapped by such islands.
C.   Maintenance of Parking Facilities: All parking facilities, including
curbs, directional markings, handicapped symbols, landscaping, irrigation,
pavement, signs, striping, and wheel stops, will be permanently maintained in
good repair, free of litter and debris, potholes, obstructions, and stored
material. (Ord. 19-1036)
9-1E-4: PARKING DESIGN CRITERIA:
A.   Surface Parking Lots:
   1.   Parking lots must be designed to maximize the amount of runoff directed
to permeable areas and/or maximize stormwater storage for reuse or
infiltration. Projects must use natural drainage, detention ponds, infiltration
pits, and bioswales to promote infiltration and reduce or prevent off-site
runoff.
   2.   Grading must be coordinated with the drainage methods of adjacent
properties and minimize differences in pad heights between the subject property
and adjacent properties.
   3.   Decorative paving and/or brickwork, as well as abutting shrubs or
vines, are encouraged on driveways to reduce the visual impact.
   4.   Concrete areas of driveways should be minimized as much as possible.
The use of pervious surfaces, such as pervious concrete or grasscrete, is
encouraged on driveways.
   5.   Maximize permeable areas to allow percolation of runoff through such
means as biofilters, green strips, and swales.
B.   Parking Structures:
   1.   Parking facilities should be designed in a similar architectural style,
using the same materials and treatments as surrounding buildings and
structures, particularly if part of a larger development project.
   2.   The façade of parking structures should include vertical and horizontal
articulation to break up the façade and provide a visual separation between
each floor.
   3.   Projecting elements, awnings, signs, or other features should be used
to visually delineate pedestrian entrances into parking structures.
C.   Parking Structures: Bicycle parking and storage facilities, including bike
racks and storage lockers, should be in well-lit, highly visible areas near
building entrances.
D.   Landscaping:
   1.   Preserve existing mature trees where feasible.
   2.   Trees and shrubs should be selected to minimize root problems and be
located and spaced to allow for mature, long-term growth.
   3.   Hardscape palettes should match the architecture of the structure.
   4.   Landscaping must be provided along all parking lot perimeter edges.
   5.   Drought tolerant and native plants should be used for planting. Drought
tolerant landscaping includes native water conserving plants. (Ord. 19-1036)
9-1E-5: ALTERNATIVE PARKING STRATEGIES:
Alternative parking strategies ensure that the city's off-street parking supply
adequately serves the parking demand and that the supply of off-street parking
is representative of the uses in the city. The following strategies are
encouraged where appropriate, throughout the city.
A.   Shared and Joint Use of Off-Street Parking:
   1.   The planning manager will review and approve any proposal shared, joint
use, or off-site parking arrangements, unless such parking is included in an
application requiring approval of the planning commission.
   2.   Circumstances and requirements for allowing shared parking
arrangements. Where it can be demonstrated that two (2) or more land uses can
effectively share common parking facilities due to the nature of the uses and
distinctly different demand for parking, or where off-site parking is proposed
to meet parking requirements, then an application may be filed for such parking
arrangement.
   3.   The building or use for which an application is being made for
authority to share and utilize the existing off-street parking facilities
provided by another building or use will be located within five hundred feet
(500') of such parking facilities.
   4.   To grant a request for shared/joint use or off-site parking, the
planning manager will determine the following:
      a.   There are clear and convincing evidence that peak-hour parking
demand from all uses does not coincide and/or the uses are such that the hours
of operation are different for the various businesses or uses.
      b.   There is adequate parking provided for all participating users.
      c.   Adjacent or nearby properties will not be adversely affected by the
shared/joint use or off-site parking.
      d.   The parking arrangement is consistent with the General Plan and all
requirements of this Code.
   5.   The planning manager may require a parking study to be prepared that
identifies the parking demand of all subject land uses and that clearly
demonstrates how and why parking facilities can be shared. The will parking
study must be prepared by a registered traffic engineer that specifically
analyzes the parking demand for each use proposing to share the parking, each
use's hours of operation, and other related issues of all involved uses.
   6.   A legal agreement will be signed by all parties using shared/joint use
parking facilities. Such agreement will be approved by the City Attorney and
Community Development Director and recorded with the Los Angeles County
Recorder and will continue to be valid upon change of ownership.
   7.   In the event of a change in use, a new application will be filed, or
the existing agreement amended with approval of the Planning Manager.
B.   Off-Site Shared Parking: Off-site shared parking for non-residential uses
will comply with the following standards:
   1.   Distance. Off-site parking will be located no more than one thousand
feet (1,000') from the use it is intended to serve.
   2.   Lease agreement required. Required nonresidential parking may be
located off-site from the use which it serves, subject to the approval of the
planning manager of a lease agreement providing that the off-site parking will
be available when the use commences and continuing so long as the use is in
effect.
   3.   Notification of pending termination of lease required. The lease will
contain a provision requiring that the planning manager be notified in writing
at least thirty (30) days before termination of the lease.
   4.   Recorded lease required. A certificate of occupancy for the use will
not be issued until the lease has been recorded with the county recorder and a
copy filed with the planning manager.
   5.   Recorded covenant required. When the off-site parking is provided on a
lot that is not contiguous with the lot where the use is located, and both are
owned by the same entity, a covenant will be recorded that ties the lot
providing the parking to the lot where the use requiring the parking is
located.
C.   Car Sharing:
   1.   Multi-family Residential and Commercial Uses: Any multi-family
residential guest or commercial parking space may be voluntarily converted to a
car-sharing space for up to a maximum of twenty-five percent (25%) of the
required multi-family residential guest or commercial parking space of a
development.
   2.   The car-share spaces will be made available, at no cost, to a certified
car-share organization for purposes of providing car-share services for its
car-share service subscribers.
   3.   When provided for a mixed-use or commercial development, the car-
sharing service will be made available to the general public.
   4.   An applicant may request to provide dedicated ride or car-sharing
parking and/or loading spaces as a means of satisfying off-street parking
requirements, subject to the following requirements:
      a.   Multi-Family Residential Uses. One (1) dedicated ride or car sharing
parking and/or loading space may replace four (4) guest parking spaces for a
stand-alone multi-family residential or mixed-use development, for up to fifty
percent (50%) of the required guest parking spaces for multi-family residential
uses or the residential portion of a mixed-use building that include a minimum
of ten (10) dwelling units.
      b.   Commercial Uses. One (1) dedicated ride or car sharing parking and/
or loading space may replace two (2) required parking spaces for commercial
uses for up to fifteen percent (15%) of the required parking spaces for
commercial uses that include a minimum of six thousand (6,000) square feet of
gross floor area.
      c.   Distance. Ride or car-sharing parking and/or loading spaces will be
located no more than five hundred feet (500') from the use that is intended to
serve.
      d.   Pedestrian Access. A pedestrian way that complies with all
applicable ADA requirements, and is not more than five hundred feet (500') in
length, will be provided from the off-site parking area to the use it serves.
D.   Tandem and Valet Parking: An off-street parking program utilizing limited
valet and tandem parking may be allowed for all commercial uses listed under
the commercial use classification in
Table 9-1E-1, Off-Street Parking Requirements, and the non-residential portions
of mixed-use projects in accordance with the following:
   1.   Spaces. The development served will provide fifteen (15) or more
parking spaces;
   2.   Maximum Amount. No more than twenty percent (20%) of the total number
of spaces will be designated as tandem; and
   3.   Attendant Required. A valet parking attendant must be on duty during
hours of operation.
E.   Bicycle Parking: An applicant will provide bicycle parking in excess of
the amount required by 9-1E-1, Off-Street Parking Requirements in exchange for
a limited reduction in automobile parking spaces, in accordance with the
following:
   1.   Spaces. The development served will provide fifteen (15) or more car
parking spaces.
   2.   Multi-Family Residential Uses. A bicycle parking rack, corral, or other
bicycle parking facility with a capacity to park ten (10) bicycles may replace
one guest automobile parking space, for a maximum of two (2) parking spaces.
   3.   Commercial Uses. A bicycle parking rack, corral, or other bicycle
parking facility with a capacity to park ten (10) bicycles may replace one (1)
automobile parking space, for a maximum of two (2) parking spaces. A minimum of
two (2) showers and two (2) lockers will be provided.
F.   Bus Stop Improvements:
   1.   Bus stop improvements, including bus pullouts, bus pads, and right-of-
way for bus benches and shelters will be required for developments located
along arterials where public transit exists or is anticipated to exist within
five (5) years.
   2.   Bus stop location and improvements will be determined according to a)
frequency and relative impact of blocked traffic due to stopped buses; and b)
level of transit ridership at the project location. (Ord. 19-1036)
9-1E-6: LOADING:
A.   Loading Dock Access:
   1.   Developments zoned commercial and industrial buildings with truck-
height loading docks, will be designed with the at least one (1) driveway
approach capable of accommodating a forty-eight (48)-foot wheel track turning
radius.
   2.   Developments will be designed to prevent truck back-up maneuvering
within public right-of-way. At least one (1) on-site maneuvering area which
provides a forty-eight (48)-foot turning radius wheel track through the parking
area or a circulation pattern which does not require a truck to turn around on
site.
   3.   If an industrially or commercially zoned property is designed with a
raised loading dock and/or truck wells, each dock or well will be provided with
at least one (1) back-up area to the dock or well in accordance with
Table 9-1E-5. The dock approach may not be encumbered by parking stalls or
physical obstructions and will be measured perpendicular to the dock or door.
The minimum dock and overhead clearance is twelve feet (12').
   4.   The driveway aisle between parking stalls may be used for the approach,
provided the forty-eight foot (48') wheel track turning radius is maintained.
   5.   Parking aisles and access driveways adjacent to loading doors without
dock high approaches or truck wells will have a minimum width of eight feet
(8') plus the aisle width required in this chapter, except for ninety (90)-
degree parking in which the parking aisle will have a minimum thirty-two foot
(32') width.
 
TABLE 9-1E-5
LOADING DOCK ACCESS
Berth or Aisle Width (Feet) Dock Approach (Feet)
10                          120
12                          117
14                          113
 
   6.   The director may allow an exception to the loading dock access
requirements if the director finds the following:
      a.   Dimensions of the lot are not adequate to accommodate on-site
turnaround.
      b.   Access is located to minimize conflicts with intersections, minimum
one hundred feet (100') from intersection.
      c.   Access is onto a minor street with low traffic volume.
      d.   Street geometry is adequate to accommodate truck back-up maneuvering
of the largest anticipated vehicle, minimum forty feet (40') between the end of
the loading space nearest to the street and the curb on the opposite side of
the street.
B.   Off-Street Loading Spaces:
   1.   Off-street loading spaces will be provided at a rate in accordance with
Table 9-1E-6. The loading spaces will be not less than twelve feet (12') in
width, forty feet (40') in length, and with fourteen feet (14') of vertical
clearance.
   2.   Loading docks located less than one hundred feet (100') to residential
properties will be housed in an enclosed structure to minimize noise impacts.
 
TABLE 9-1E-6
MINIMUM LOADING SPACES
Total square feet of building space (gross floor area) Loading Spaces Required
Commercial and industrial buildings
20,000 and under                                       1
20,001-50,000                                          2
50,001 and over                                        3
Hospitals, institutions, hotels, office buildings
50,000 and under                                       1
50,001-100,000                                         2
100,001 and over                                       3
 
   3.   The director may allow an exception to the off-street loading
requirements if it is demonstrated that there is not adequate space on the lot
to reasonably accommodate the minimum number or dimensions of loading spaces.
C.   Loading Design Criteria:
   1.   Loading and service access areas, utilities, and trash and recycling
receptacles should be located on the rear portion of a parcel or development,
screened from the public right-of-way, open space, and adjacent properties.
Loading and service areas should not be a hazard to or conflict with the
movement of automobiles, pedestrians, or bicycles. Off-street loading areas
will be located as far as possible from the residential units and will be
completely screened from view from the residential portion of the project.
Loading areas will not be located within required setbacks.
   2.   Areas for the collection and storage of refuse and recyclable materials
will be located on the site in locations that are convenient for both the
residential and nonresidential uses. There will be separate refuse and
recycling trash collection areas for the residential and non-residential uses.
Trash collection areas will be located and screened so that noise and odors do
not affect residential units.
   3.   If the loading of furniture and household goods for residential units
occurs on the street, it will be limited to the hours of 9:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m.
and 7:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m. on weekdays and 9:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. on
weekends. (Ord. 19-1036)
ARTICLE F. SIGNS
SECTION:
9-1F-1: Purpose
9-1F-2: Applicability
9-1F-3: Definitions
9-1F-4: General Provisions
9-1F-5: Exempt Signs
9-1F-6: Prohibited Signs
9-1F-7: Standards For All Types Of Sign Types
9-1F-8: Permanent Signs By Zone - Location And Design Requirements
9-1F-9: Specific Types Of Permanent Signs
9-1F-10: Iconic Signs
9-1F-11: Signs For Specific Uses
9-1F-12: Temporary Signs
9-1F-13: Procedures For Sign Permits, Exemptions, And Revocations
9-1F-14: Comprehensive Sign Program
9-1F-15: Sign Maintenance
9-1F-16: Enforcement
9-1F-17: Nonconforming Signs
9-1F-18: Abandoned Signs
9-1F-19: Illegal Signs
9-1F-1: PURPOSE:
The city council finds that, for the purpose of protecting and enhancing the
aesthetic qualities that define and distinguish Temple City, protecting public
safety and general welfare, assisting property and business owners and business
tenants to benefit from their investments, and promoting economic development
and investments through enhanced aesthetic appeal, proper sign regulations are
an important governmental interest. Therefore, the purpose of the standards in
this article is as follows:
A.   To provide each sign user the opportunity for adequate business or other
identification and information while guarding against the potentially excessive
and confusing proliferation of signs by appropriately regulating the time,
place, and manner under which signs may be displayed.
B.   To preserve and enhance the community's appearance by regulating the type,
number, size, location, quality, design, character, scale, illumination, and
maintenance of signs.
C.   To encourage establishment and maintenance of well-designed signs that
attract and invite rather than demand the public's attention.
D.   To encourage the design of signs that are complementary to the structures
and uses to which they relate.
E.   To ensure freedom of expression for sign uses for both commercial and
noncommercial speech by maintaining a content-neutral approach to sign
regulation.
F.   To enhance the safety of motorists and pedestrians by minimizing the
distraction of intrusive and overpowering signs, as well as to protect the
life, health, property, and general welfare of city residents and visitors.
G.   To provide a review process for signs to ensure compliance with the
requirements of this article. (Ord. 19-1036)
9-1F-2: APPLICABILITY:
A.   Regulatory Scope: This article regulates signs, as defined in this
article, that are placed on private property, in the public right-of-way, or on
property owned by public agencies other than the city and over which the city
has zoning authority.
B.   Applicability:
   1.   The regulations in this article shall apply to all signs in all zones
that come within the regulatory scope as defined in Subsection A, above, unless
specifically exempted.
   2.   Sign permits shall be required in compliance with section
9-1F-13 (Procedures for Sign Permits, Exemptions, and Revocations). In
addition, the provisions of Municipal Code Title 7 (Building Regulations)
relating to building and electrical codes, fees, penalties, and a method of
enforcement shall also apply.
   3.   Applications for sign permits that comply with all the applicable
requirements of this article and other applicable laws shall be granted. Signs
approved in conjunction with any other application shall be consistent with
this article, unless otherwise approved by the city. Where approval of a
conditional use permit or variance has been obtained, any applicable conditions
of that approval shall supersede the requirements of this article.
C.   Sign Permit Required: A sign permit shall be required for all signs unless
exempt in compliance with section
9-1F-5 (Exempt Signs), including change of copy allowed under the requirements
of this article. Only signs that comply with all the applicable requirements of
this article shall be approved.
D.   Content Consideration: Content of a noncommercial message shall not be
considered when any required sign permit application is reviewed. Content of a
commercial message shall be considered only to the extent required to determine
whether the sign is an on-site or off-site sign. See section
9-1F-15 (Procedures for Sign Permits, Exemptions, and Revocations).
E.   Nonconforming Signs: An existing legally allowed sign that does not
conform to the requirements of this article shall be deemed a nonconforming
sign and shall be subject to the requirements of section
9-1F-17 (Nonconforming Signs).
F.   Specific Plans: Sign regulations contained in a city adopted specific plan
document shall not be less restrictive than the regulations in this article. If
the adopted specific plan does not provide regulations for a sign type or
situation, the requirements of this article shall apply. (Ord. 19-1036)
9-1F-3: DEFINITIONS:
 
                              A portable freestanding sign that is hinged,
A-FRAME SIGN:                 folded, or otherwise angled at the top and widens
                              at the bottom to form a side facing shape like
                              the letter "A."
                              A nonconforming sign that is advertising a use
                              that has ceased, or is located upon a structure
                              that has been abandoned for more than ninety (90)
ABANDONED NONCONFORMING SIGN: days. See "Abandoned Sign." For the purposes of
                              this definition, abandonment for the applicable
                              ninety (90)-day period shall be deemed conclusive
                              evidence of abandonment irrespective of the
                              property, sign, or business owner's intent.
                              A sign that is advertising a use that has ceased;
                              is located upon a structure that has been
                              abandoned by its owner; does not identify or
                              advertise a current bona fide business, lessor,
ABANDONED SIGN:               service, owner, or product available upon the
                              site; or that identifies or advertises an event
                              or activity that has previously occurred. See
                              section
                              9-1F-18 (Abandoned Signs) for timelines for
                              determining abandonment.
ADDRESS SIGN:                 The numeric reference of a structure or use to a
                              street included as part of a sign.
                              A sign that uses movement, lighting, or special
                              materials to depict action or create a special
ANIMATED SIGN:                effect or scene. This classification includes
                              wind-actuated and other elements (e.g., balloons,
                              bunting, pennants, streamers, whirligigs), or
                              other similar devices.
                              A roof-like structure usually covered in fabric
AWNING:                       (e.g., canvas) that projects from the wall of a
                              structure to shield a doorway or window from the
                              elements.
                              A sign painted on, printed on, or attached to the
                              surface of an awning. This does not include signs
AWNING SIGN:                  attached to architectural projections (such as
                              metal frames projecting from the building which
                              take the place of a wall sign). See Figure 9-1F-
                              3-A (Awning Sign).
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3744.png]
Figure 9-1F-3-A - Awning Sign
 
                              An internally illuminated, fixed, space-frame
                              structure with translucent, flexible, fabric
BACK-LIT AWNING:              reinforced covering designed in an awning form
                              and with graphics or copy applied to the visible
                              surface of the awning.
BANNER SIGN:                  A sign made of fabric or any non-rigid material
                              with no enclosing framework.
                              A permanent structure used for the display of
BILLBOARD:                    off-site commercial messages (see "Off-Site
                              Signs").
                              A small, pedestrian-oriented sign that projects
BLADE/BRACKET SIGN:           perpendicular from a structure (blade sign) or is
                              hung beneath an awning or canopy (bracket sign).
                              See also "Projecting Sign."
                              A sign which is located on, and parallel to a
BUILDING IDENTIFICATION SIGN: building wall which announces the name of the
                              building, such as "The Empire State Building."
                              A sign indicating the name of a building and date
BUILDING MARKER:              and incidental information about its construction
                              which is cut into a masonry surface or made of
                              bronze or other durable material.
                              A sign that has one or more plastic, acrylic, or
                              similar material faces (panels) that may or may
CABINET SIGN:                 not be internally illuminated. The sign panels
                              may be either flat or shaped ("pan face") and are
                              attached to a metal frame (cabinet).
                              A permanent roof-like structure of rigid or
                              fabric materials extending from the main entrance
CANOPY:                       of a structure and typically supported by posts
                              at the corners farthest from where the canopy
                              attaches to the structure. See also "Awning."
                              A sign located on a permanent roof- like
CANOPY SIGN:                  structure or canopy of rigid or fabric materials
                              extending from the main entrance of a structure.
                              See Figure 9-1F-3-B (Canopy Sign).
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3746.png]
Figure 9-1F-3-B - Canopy Sign
 
                                   A sign with changeable copy that is changed
                                   by incorporating video display, flip-disks,
                                   incandescent lamps, fluorescent lamps, fiber
                                   optics, light-emitting diodes (LED), liquid
CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN (ELECTRONIC): crystal displays, plasma-displays, field
                                   emission displays, or any other mechanical
                                   or light-emitting matrix to convey changing
                                   copy or images. Also considered an animated
                                   sign. See Figure 9-1F-3-C (Changeable Copy
                                   Sign).
                                   A sign with changeable copy that is manually
                                   changed, regardless of method of attachment
                                   or materials of construction. This
CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN (MANUAL):     classification includes bulletin boards and
                                   changeable copy signs on marquees. Does not
                                   include electronic message boards with
                                   lighted displays. See Figure 9-1F-3-C
                                   (Changeable Copy Signs).
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3748.png]
Figure 9-1F-3-C - Changeable Copy Sign
 
                           Three-dimensional sign face lettering or logos such
CHANNEL LETTERING:         that the sign is on a different plane than the sign
                           backing or structure.
                           Animated beings, including those wearing masks or
                           costumes, that hold signs or are used as moving
COMMERCIAL MASCOT:         signs, for the purpose of advertising an
                           establishment within a non-residential zone. This
                           includes sign twirlers, sign clowns, etc.
                           A message displayed on a sign that relates primarily
                           to economic interests (e.g., the exchange or sale of
COMMERCIAL MESSAGE:        goods or services). This definition shall
                           automatically incorporate court rulings defining the
                           term "commercial speech."
                           A temporary sign erected on a parcel where
CONSTRUCTION SIGN:         construction is taking place that lasts the duration
                           of the permit.
CONTENT NEUTRALITY:        See section
                           9-1F-4 (General Provisions).
                           The graphic content of a sign surface in either
COPY:                      permanent or removable letter, pictographic,
                           symbolic, or alphabetic form.
DEPARTMENT:                The Community Development Department of the City of
                           Temple City.
DIRECTIONAL SIGN:
                           A sign giving directions for traffic (vehicular and/
                           or pedestrian), instructions, or facility
On-site directional sign:  information of an establishment upon the same
                           property, but with no advertising copy (e.g., stop
                           signs, parking, or exit and entrance signs). See
                           Figure 9-1F-3-E (On-Site Directional Sign).
                           A sign giving directions to businesses, sales
                           offices, real estate sales locations, points of
                           interest, or other uses found to be similar by the
Off-site directional sign: director, that are located on a different property,
                           but with no advertising copy. See Figure 9-1F-3-F
                           (Off-Site Directional Sign). See section
                           9-1F-9 (Specific Types of Permanent Signs).
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3750.png]
Figure 9-1F-3-D - Double- faced Sign
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3752.png]
Figure 9-1F-3-E - One-site Directional Sign
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3754.png]
Figure 9-1F-3-F - Off-site Directional Sign
 
DIRECTOR:             The director of the city's community development
                      department, or the director's designee.
DIRECTORY SIGN:       A sign listing the tenants or occupants of a building or
                      building complex.
DISPLAY SURFACE:      The area made available by the sign structure for the
                      purpose of displaying the advertising message.
                      A permanently mounted sign located adjacent to a drive-
DRIVE-THROUGH BOARD:  through lane and typically located next to or preceding
                      the drive-through window.
                      A sign designed with the intent of providing copy (i.e.,
DOUBLE-FACED SIGN:    message) on both sides. See Figure 9-1F-3-D (Double-Faced
                      Sign).
                      A sign of a non-commercial nature made of corrugated
ELECTION SIGN:        plastic, paper, cardboard, or other temporary materials
                      present forty-five (45) days before an election and seven
                      (7) days after.
                      Commemorative or decorative plaques, dates of
EMBEDDED PLAQUE/SIGN: construction, and the like when carved in stone,
                      concrete, or similar material or made of bronze,
                      aluminum, or other similar durable material.
                      A legal, nonresidential use of land to conduct a
                      commercial or noncommercial activity. By way of example
ESTABLISHMENT:        and not limitation, "establishment" includes stores,
                      offices, places of assembly, hospitals, manufacturing
                      facilities, etc., but does not include home-based
                      occupations or hobbies.
FAÇADE:              The entire building elevation, including the parapet.
FACE OF SIGN:         The area of a sign on which the copy (i.e., message) is
                      placed.
FASCIA:               Typically, the smooth wall surface between a window and
                      the parapet.
                      A rectangular or square piece of fabric generally with a
FLAG:                 height to width ratio ranging between one (1) to one (1)
                      to one (1) to two (2) that is hung from a vertical or
                      nearly vertical pole.
FLASHING SIGN:        A sign that displays an intermittent or sequential
                      flashing light source.
                      A sign supported permanently upon the ground by a
                      structure and not attached to a building. This includes
FREESTANDING SIGN:    monument signs and pylon signs. See "Monument Sign" and
                      "Pylon Sign." See Figure 9-1F-3-G (Types of Freestanding
                      Signs).
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3756.png]
Figure 9-1F-3-G - Types of Freestanding Signs
 
FRONTAGE:                      
                              The building elevation that fronts on a street,
Building frontage:            alley, driveway, parking area, pedestrian plaza,
                              walkway, courtyard, or arcade. See Figure 9-1F-3-
                              H (Example of Building Frontages).
Building frontage, primary:   A building elevation that provides the primary
                              source of pedestrian access to the structure.
                              A building elevation that provides public
Building frontage, rear:      entrance opposite of the primary building
                              frontage.
Building frontage, secondary: A building elevation that provides the secondary
                              source of pedestrian access to the structure.
Tenant frontage:              That portion of a multi- tenant building facade
                              that is devoted to a single tenant.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3758.png]
Figure 9-1F-3-H - Example of building frontages
 
                             Signs and decorations painted on or applied to
HOLIDAY WINDOW SIGN:         windows pertaining to holidays and seasonal
                             events.
                             A sign installed without the prior issuance of a
ILLEGAL SIGN:                sign permit; or that is not in compliance with
                             this article; or that is not a legal nonconforming
                             sign.
                             A sign lighted with an artificial light source for
ILLUMINATED SIGN:            the purpose of decorating, enhancing, outlining,
                             accentuating, or brightening the sign area.
EXTERNALLY ILLUMINATED SIGN: A sign illuminated from an exterior light source.
                             A sign whose illumination is derived entirely from
INDIRECTLY ILLUMINATED SIGN: an external artificial source that is arranged to
                             illuminate the sign area only.
                             A sign illuminated from an interior light source
INTERNALLY ILLUMINATED SIGN: contained within the sign cabinet or individual
                             letter, such as a luminous tube sign or LED
                             (light-emitting diode) sign.
                             A sign in a single-family or multi-family zone
                             other than election signs, real estate signs, or
INCIDENTAL RESIDENTIAL SIGN: garage or yard sale signs no more than one (1)
                             square feet in size and made of permanent or
                             durable materials, such as hard plastic designed
                             for outdoor use, corrugate plastic, or metal.
                             A three-dimensional object filled or activated by
                             moving or non-moving air or other gas, located,
                             attached, or tethered to the ground, site,
INFLATED DISPLAY SIGN:       merchandise, structure, or roof and used as a sign
                             or to attract attention. This definition does not
                             include inflated gymnasium-type jumping or sliding
                             devices used temporarily for a non-advertising
                             activity (e.g., children's parties, etc.).
LOGO:                        An established trademark or symbol associated with
                             a business or corporation.
                             A sign that consists of or is illuminated by
LUMINOUS TUBE SIGNS:         exposed electrically charged gas-filled tubing
                             (e.g., neon and argon signs) or by fiber optics.
                             A four-sided roof characterized by two (2) slopes
MANSARD ROOF:                on each of its sides with the lower slope at a
                             steeper angle than the upper.
                             A permanent roofed structure attached to and
MARQUEE:                     supported by the building and customarily
                             projecting over public property.
MARQUEE/UNDER CANOPY SIGN:   An accessory sign attached to a marquee or canopy.
                             A freestanding sign, the structure of which is
MONUMENT SIGN:               supported from finished grade, giving the
                             appearance of having a solid base. See
                             "Freestanding Sign."
                             A sign which has an actual or apparent moving,
                             revolving, or rotating part, activated by
MOVING SIGN:                 electrical, mechanical or other devices or by wind
                             movement. For the purposes of this article, time
                             and temperature displays, and traditional barber
                             poles are not considered moving signs.
MURAL:                       An artistic image or design painted or affixed to
                             the exterior surface of a wall.
NONCONFORMING SIGNS:
                             A legal sign that lawfully existed (i.e., complied
                             with all the applicable regulations and had all
                             the required permits) before the effective date of
Legal nonconforming sign:    this article or amendment thereto, and that does
                             not comply with the minimum sign regulations of
                             this article. This also includes legal signs
                             lawfully located on sites annexed into the city
                             after the adoption of this article.
Illegal nonconforming sign:  See section 9-1F-19 (Illegal Signs).
                             A sign message that is not commercial in nature.
NONCOMMERCIAL MESSAGE:       See "Commercial Message" above. This definition
                             shall automatically incorporate court rulings
                             defining the term "noncommercial speech."
                             A sign erected on a parcel that is not the
OFF-SITE SIGN:               location of the business or use that the sign is
                             advertising. See also "Directional Sign."
                             A message on a sign that advertises a business,
                             accommodation, service, or activity not provided
OFF-SITE MESSAGE:            on the premises on which the sign is located. This
                             classification includes billboards. The off-site/
                             on- site distinction applies only to commercial
                             messages.
                             A message on a sign that advertises a business,
                             accommodation, service, or activity provided on
ON-SITE MESSAGE:             the premises on which the sign is located. The
                             off-site/on-site distinction applies only to
                             commercial messages.
PAINTED WALL SIGN:           A sign painted directly onto a building surface
                             without use of a face board (see also mural).
PARAPET:                     The extension of a false front or wall above a
                             roofline.
                             A sign that is designed for and directed toward
                             pedestrians so that the pedestrians can easily and
PEDESTRIAN-ORIENTED SIGN:    comfortably read the sign as they approach and
                             stand adjacent to it. A pedestrian-oriented sign
                             is usually read from fifteen (15) to twenty (20)
                             feet.
                             A sign designed with durable materials and
PERMANENT SIGN:              intended to be used in excess of sixty (60) days
                             per calendar year.
                             A sign that is supported by a single pole or
POLE SIGN:                   similar support structure so that the bottom edge
                             of the sign is one foot (1') or more above grade.
                             Any sign designed to be moved easily and not
PORTABLE SIGN:               permanently affixed to the ground or to a
                             structure or building.
                             A sign that projects from and is supported by a
PROJECTING SIGN:             wall of a building. See Figure 9-1F-3-I
                             (Projecting Sign). See also "Blade/Bracket Sign."
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3760.png]
Figure 9-1F-3-I - Projecting/Blade/Bracket Sign
 
PROJECTION:          The distance by which a sign extends from the building it
                     is supported by.
                     Signs of utilities or other publicly regulated service
PUBLIC SERVICE SIGN: providers indicating danger or similar aids to service or
                     safety, including official advisory and signal flags.
                     A channel for protecting and holding electrical wires and
                     cables, typically a rectangular metal box for the
                     electrical components of an illuminated sign consisting of
                     channel letters. Pre-wired channel letters are mounted to
RACEWAY:             the raceway, which in turn is mounted to a building wall.
                     One (1) set of wiring is then connected to the main
                     circuit. The rectangular box (raceway) sets behind the
                     attached letters and is not designed as an architectural
                     feature. See Figure 9-1F-3-J (Electrical Raceway with
                     Channel Letter).
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3762.png]
Figure 9-1F-3-J Electrical Raceway with Channel letter
 
                                   A temporary, on-site sign which is installed
REAL ESTATE SIGN:                  at a time corresponding to the sale or lease
                                   of a unit.
                                   The top edge of a roof or building parapet,
ROOF LINE:                         whichever is higher, excluding any mansards,
                                   cupolas, chimneys, or minor projections.
                                   A sign that is wholly erected, constructed,
                                   or placed on top of the roof of a structure
ROOF SIGN:                         including a mansard roof, and that is
                                   partially or totally supported by the
                                   structure.
                                   For purposes of this article, a commercial
                                   facility that sells gasoline, diesel, or
SERVICE STATION/REFUELING STATION: alternative fuel for the on-site fueling of
                                   individual vehicles, with or without
                                   service-related facilities.
                                   Any device, fixture, placard, or structure-
                                   including its component parts-that draws
                                   attention to an object, product, place,
                                   activity, opinion, person, establishment,
SIGN:                              institution, organization, or place of
                                   business, or that identifies or promotes the
                                   interests of any person and that is to be
                                   viewed from any public street, road,
                                   highway, right-of-way or parking area.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3764.png]
Figure 9-1F-3-K Examples of Sign Types
 
           The following are not within the definition of "Sign" for regulatory purposes
           of this article:
           a. Architectural Features: Decorative or architectural features of buildings
           (not including lettering, logos, trademarks, or moving parts).
           b. Fireworks And Other Lights: The legal use of fireworks, spotlights, candles
           and artificial lighting not otherwise regulated by this article.
           c. Interior Signs: Signs or other visual communicative devices that are
           located entirely within a building or other enclosed structure and are not
           visible from the exterior thereof or located at least five feet (5') inward
           from the interior face of the window, provided the building or enclosed
           structure is otherwise legal.
          d. Legally Required Information: Public notices, registration, or licensing
           information, etc.
           e. Manufacturers’ Marks: Marks on tangible products that identify the maker,
           seller, provider, or product, and that customarily remain attached to the
           product even after sale.
           f. Murals: located on properties with a General Plan Land Use Designation of
           Institutional or Open Space.
           g. Symbols Embedded In Architecture: Symbols of noncommercial organizations or
           concepts including, but not limited to religious or political symbols, when
           they are permanently integrated into the structure or a permanent building
           that is otherwise legal; also includes foundation stones, corner stones, and
           similar devices.
SIGN AREA: See section
           9-1F-7-D (Standards for All Types of Sign Types).
SIGN       See section
HEIGHT:    9-1F-7-E (Standards for All Types of Sign Types).
SIGN       See section
PROGRAM:   9-1F-14 (Comprehensive Sign Program).
SIGN       The sign, and the supports, uprights, braces, and framework of the sign.
STRUCTURE:
           A sign, banner, pennant, valance, or advertising display constructed of cloth,
           canvas, fabric, cardboard, wall board, or other light nondurable materials,
TEMPORARY  with or without frames, designed to be displayed for a limited period.
SIGN:      Typically displayed by an establishment to promote a sale, new product line,
           management change, service, liquidation sales, going-out-of-business sales,
           person running for public office, and similar special activities or events.
           See Figures 9-1F-3-L and 9-1F-3M (Temporary Signs).
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3766.png]
Figure 9-1F-3-L Temporary Sign
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3768.png]
Figure 9-1F-3-M Temporary Window Sign
 
                       An electronic or mecha nical device that shows time and/
TIME/TEMPERATURE SIGN: or temperature but contains no busine ss identification
                       or advertising.
                       A word, name or symbol which, with a distinctive type or
TRADEMARK:             letter style is associated with a business or business
                       entity in the conduct of business.
                       A sign painted, affixed, or placed upon a vehicle or
VEHICLE SIGN:          trailer and that vehicle or trailer's only function is
                       to act as an advertising display, not as a normal
                       business delivery or service vehicle.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3770.png]
Figure 9-1F-3-N Wall Mounted Sign
 
                   A sign attached to, erected against, or fastened to a wall
                   of a building or structure, the face of which is in a single
WALL-MOUNTED SIGN: plane parallel to the plane of the building wall to which
                   the sign is attached or fastened. See Figure 9-1F-3-N (Wall-
                   Mounted Sign.)
                   Any sign, whether or not temporary in nature, which is
                   applied or attached to a window, or located within five feet
WINDOW SIGN:       (5') of the inside of a window in a manner that it is
                   visible from the exterior of the structure. (Ord. 19-1036;
                   amd. Ord. 22-1060; Ord. 23-1069)
 
9-1F-4: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
The rules and regulations stated in this section apply to all signs subject to
compliance with this article.
A.   Compliance Required: No person shall erect, re-erect, construct, maintain,
enlarge, alter, change copy, repair, move, improve, remove, convert, or equip
any sign or sign structure, or paint a new wall mural in the city, or cause or
permit the same to be done, contrary to, or in violation of, any provision of
this article.
B.   Interpretations by Director: Interpretations of the requirements of this
article shall be exercised considering the city’s content neutrality policy.
Where a particular type of sign is proposed in a permit application, and the
type is neither expressly allowed nor prohibited by this article, or whenever a
sign does not qualify as a “structure” as defined in the California Building
Code, then the director shall approve, conditionally approve, or deny the
application based on the most similar sign type that is expressly regulated by
this article.
C.   Content Neutrality: It is the city’s policy to regulate signs in a
constitutional manner that is content neutral with respect to both
noncommercial and commercial messages. For the purposes of this article, a
content-neutral regulation is a so-called “time, place, or manner” regulation,
which, as the name suggests, does no more than place limits on when, where, and
how a message may be displayed or conveyed.
D.   Message Substitution: Signs authorized by this article can carry
noncommercial messages in lieu of any other commercial or noncommercial
messages. Substitution of messages may be made without an additional permitting
process. This provision prevails over any more specific provision to the
contrary within this article. The purpose of this provision is to prevent an
inadvertent favoring of commercial speech over noncommercial speech, or
favoring of any noncommercial message over any other noncommercial message.
This provision does not create a right to increase the total amount of signs or
allowable sign area on a parcel, nor does it affect the requirement that a sign
structure or mounting device be properly constructed.
E.   Rules for Design and Installation Aspects of Signs: Rules and regulations
concerning the design and installation aspects of signs, (e.g., number, type,
location, size, height, illumination, spacing orientation, etc.) stand
enforceable.
F.   Address Signs: Address signs, 12 inches high or less, do not count toward
the maximum allowable sign area and are required to comply with Title 3 (Public
Safety).
G.   Property Owner’s Consent Required: Signs shall not be displayed without
the expressed written consent of the legal owner of the property or authorized
representative of the property on which the sign is mounted or displayed. For
purposes of this regulation, “owner” means the holder of the legal title to the
property and all parties and persons holding a present right to possession,
control, or use of the property.
H.   Off-Site Commercial Sign Regulation: The city clearly and completely
prohibits the construction, erection, or use of off-site signs displaying off-
site commercial messages (i.e., billboards), other than those that legally
exist in the city, or for which a valid permit has been issued and has not yet
expired, as of the date on which this provision was first adopted. The city
adopts this regulation in compliance with California Government Code Section
65850, California Business and Professions Code Sections 5354(a) and 5408.3
(both effective January 1, 2003). Permits shall not be issued for off-site
signs displaying off-site commercial messages that violate this regulation, and
the city will take immediate abatement action against such signs constructed or
maintained in violation of this regulation. The council affirmatively declares
that it would have adopted this regulation even if it were the only provision
in this article. The council intends for this off-site sign regulation to be
severable and separately enforceable even if other provisions of this article
may be declared, by a court of competent jurisdiction, to be unconstitutional,
invalid, or unenforceable. This provision does not prohibit agreements to
relocate existing, legal off-site signs, as encouraged by California Business
and Professions Code Section 5412. (Ord. 19-1036; amd. Ord. 22-1060)
9-1F-5: EXEMPT SIGNS:
The signs listed in this section are exempt from the permit requirement and do
not count toward the total allowable sign area limit which is otherwise
applicable. However, the signs described in this section are still subject to
the applicable safety codes and to all other applicable laws.
A.   Address Signs: Address signs made up of numbers and/or letters twelve
inches (12") high or less.
B.   Bulletin Boards: Bulletin boards for any legal, noncommercial
establishment, when located on the premises of the establishment and not over
twelve (12) square feet in area.
C.   Change of Copy: Changing the copy in approved changeable copy signs
whereby such signs where in existence as of the date of adoption of this
article, or approved through the Comprehensive Sign Program (Section
9-1F-14).
D.   Construction Sign: Subject to the provisions of Section
9-1F-12-D (Construction Signs).
E.   Flags: In residential zones the maximum length of exempted flags is five
feet (5'). In non-residential zones the maximum length of exempted flags is
eight feet (8').
F.   Garage Sale Signs: See Municipal Code Article 4-2D (Yard Sales).
G.   Holiday Window Painting: Signs and decorations painted on or applied to
windows pertaining to holidays and seasonal events. All signs and decorations
shall be removed within ten (10) days following the applicable holiday.
H.   Incidental Residential Sign: Maximum of two (2) allowed per lot. Maximum
size per sign is one square foot. May be attached to a structure or fence or a
stake placed in a required setback. Not allowed in the public right-of-way or
public property.
I.   Names of Buildings, Commemorative Tables, and the Like (with limitations):
Names of buildings, commemorative tables, and the like when carved into stone,
set in concrete or similar material, or constructed out of bronze, aluminum, or
other durable material.
J.   Portable Parking Lot and Valet Parking Signs: One freestanding portable
sign at each parking lot entrance limited to ten (10) square feet (two feet by
five feet (2' x 5')) in area. A valet parking plan approved by the director
shall indicate the location of the sign to ensure that the sign does not
interfere with driver visibility or pedestrian movement.
K.   Public Notices and Warnings: Signs displayed by a public body or officer
in the performance of a public duty or by any person in compliance with a
governmental requirement or legal duty or function. This section applies to and
includes signs whose function is to provide legal notice or functional
information such as traffic signs, public transit signs, utility company signs,
public restroom signs, warning signs, and signs placed by a public agency for
the purpose of guiding persons to emergency centers and places of public
interest.
L.   Public Signs within a Public Right-of-Way:
   1.   Public signs posted by or for government agencies in order to provide
public information, identify public property, post legal notices, or direct or
regulate traffic of any kind.
   2.   Bus or train stop signs posted by public transit agencies.
   3.   Public utility signs that convey information about its lines, pipes,
poles, or other facilities.
   4.   Emergency warning signs posted by a governmental agency, public
utility, or contractor doing authorized work in the public right-of-way.
M.   Time or Temperature Signs: A time or temperature sign does not count
towards the otherwise applicable limits as to number, area, or size of signs
for the property on which it is located, provided that the sign:
   1.   Shall have a maximum area of thirty-six (36) square feet and shall
comply with the height requirements established in
9-1F-8 Table (Signs Allowed Non-Residential and Mixed-Use Zones) for the type
of sign (building/freestanding) to which it is attached.
   2.   Shall be designed in a manner that is architecturally compatible with
other signs and with the structure on which it is placed. (Ord. 19-1036)
9-1F-6:    PROHIBITED SIGNS:
The following signs and sign types shall be prohibited throughout all zones in
the city, except any sign as designated as an Iconic Sign (section
9-1F-10) or street banners approved pursuant to the city's Street Banner
Program.
A.   Abandoned Signs: See section
9-1F-18 (Abandoned Signs).
B.   Banners and Pennants: All types of signs and exterior decorations that can
be considered banners and/or pennants, except as otherwise allowed by section
9-1F-12 (Temporary Signs).
C.   Off-Site Commercial Signs (Billboards): Any off-site commercial sign.
Existing off-site commercial signs are considered nonconforming signs and are
regulated by section
9-1F-17 (Nonconforming Signs).
D.   Cabinet Signs, New: Any new sign with a plastic, acrylic, or similar
material face (panel) attached to a metal frame (cabinet).
E.   Commercial Mascot Signs: Commercial mascot signs with a commercial message
and any automated sign that moves, flashes, blinks, reflects, revolves, or any
other similar sign (excluding electronic message boards).
F.   Hazardous Location: Signs located so that the signs, or a portion of the
sign or sign supports, interfere with the free use of a fire escape, exit, or
standpipe; or obstruct a required door, stairway, ventilator, or window;
encroach into a public right-of-way without a proper city-issued encroachment
permit; block the view of traffic control devices; or are otherwise hazardous.
G.   Inflated Signs: Any signs or decorations that are inflatable, such as
balloons of any size of shape, and any signs that are air-blown or inflated or
animated by the internal flow or air, such as signs that appear to have a
waving body and appendages, except as otherwise allowed by section
9-1F-12 (Temporary Signs).
H.   Pole Signs, New: Any new sign that is supported by a single pole or
similar support structure so that the bottom edge of the sign is one foot (1')
or more above grade.
I.   Resembling Traffic Signs: Signs that appear in color, design, location, or
illumination to resemble or conflict with any traffic control devise.
J.   Roof Signs, New: Any new signs painted on, wholly mounted on, or attached
to a roof, excluding addresses required by law enforcement or fire regulations.
Signs partially mounted on a roof may be permitted in circumstances where the
construction configuration of the building, as determined by the director, does
not allow for any other approach to providing signs.
K.   Vehicle Signs.
L.   Video or Projected Signs (by means of projected light or similar): Any
sign created by projecting light onto a surface or the sky.
M.   Wall Painted Sign: A sign painted directly onto a building. Wall painted
signs and murals are allowed on properties designated as Institutional or Open
Space in the General Plan.
N.   Non-Durable Signs: Signs made of foam, vinyl (except when mounted on a
window), or other materials that are not durable. (Ord. 19-1036; amd. Ord. 22-
1060)
9-1F-7:    STANDARDS FOR ALL TYPES OF SIGN TYPES:
A.   Compliance Required: No person shall erect, re-erect, construct, maintain,
enlarge, alter, change copy, repair, move, improve, remove, convert, or equip
any sign or sign structure, or paint a new wall- mounted sign, in the city, or
cause or permit the same to be done, contrary to, or in violation of, any
provision of this article.
B.   Uncertainty of Article Provisions: The director shall have the authority
to interpret the provisions of this article. The director may instead refer the
request for interpretation to the planning commission in compliance with
section
9-1A-10 (Director Interpretation).
C.   Determination of Sign Location:
   1.   The maximum allowed sign area for a sign is calculated by first
determining if the sign is to be placed on a "Primary" or "Secondary" Frontage
(as defined in this article) and then referring to Section
9-1F-9 (Specific Types of Permanent Signs).
   2.   In cases where a building has more than one (1) street frontage, the
building frontage with the primary business entrance shall be considered the
primary building frontage (e.g., an entrance facing a courtyard). For multi-
tenant buildings, ground-floor tenants may have their primary building frontage
determined independently by the director for the rest of the building based
upon this rule.
D.   Measurement of Sign Area:
   1.   The surface area of a sign shall be calculated by enclosing the extreme
limits of all framing, emblem, logo, representation, letters applied to the
building without a distinctive background (e.g., channel letters), or other
display within a single continuous perimeter composed of the smallest square,
circle, rectangle, triangle or combination thereof with no more than eight
lines. See Figure 9-1F-5-B (Sign Area Measurement).
   2.   For an awning or canopy sign, sign copy that is applied to an awning or
canopy shall be computed at one hundred percent (100%) of the area within a
single rectangle enveloping the sign copy.
   3.   For a freestanding sign, the sign area shall include the frame, if any,
but shall not include:
      a.   A pole or other structural support unless the pole or structural
support is illuminated or otherwise designed to constitute a display device, or
a part of a display device. See Figure 9-1F-5-A (Calculation of Freestanding
Sign Area).
      b.    Features that are not an integral part of the sign (i.e.,
landscaping). See Figure 9-1F-5-A (Calculation of Freestanding Sign Area).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3772.png]
Figure 9-1F-5-A Calculation of Freestanding Sign Area
   4.   Only one (1) face of a double-faced sign shall be counted in computing
the allowed area of the sign. Double- faced (back-to-back) signs shall be
regarded as a single sign when the sign is mounted on a single structure, and
the distance between each sign face does not exceed two feet (2') at any point.
If the sign is multi-faced (e.g., more than two (2) sides), then each face
shall be counted in computing the allowed area of the sign.
   5.   Where a sign consists of one (1) or more three (3)-dimensional objects
(i.e., balls, cubes, clusters of objects, sculpture, or statue-like
trademarks), the sign area shall be measured as their maximum projection upon a
vertical plane, as viewed from a position in the public right-of- way which
produces the largest visual projection. See Figure 9-1F-5-C (Sign Area
Measurement for Three-Dim ensional Objects). Signs may not contain three-dime
nsional objects that exceed a projection of six inches (6") from the sign face.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3774.png]
Figure 9-1F-5-B Sign Area Measurement
E.   Me asurement of Sign Height: The height of a sign shall be measured from
the highest part of the sign, including any decorative features, to the height
of the adjoining grade directly beneath the sign.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3776.png]
Figure 9-1F-5-C Sign Area Measurement For Three Dimensional Objects
F.   Maximum Character Height: The maximum height of any letter, text, logo, or
symbol shall be thirty-six inches (36").
G.   Sign Construction Materials: All signs that are not temporary signs shall
be constructed of permanent materials, including but not limited to metal,
wood, acrylic, or other comparable durable weatherproof materials. No material
more combustible than treated wood shall be used in the construction of any
permanent sign.
H.   Consistent Design: Where multiple signs are proposed, all signs shall be
consistent in the type of construction material, letter size and style, and
support method. Signs shall be designed to complement the building to which
they are related using a similar scale, color, material and/or other design
element.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3778.png]
Figure 9-1F-5-D Example of Appropriate Sign Proportion and Rhythm
I.   Sign Proportion and Rhythm: Signs shall be in general proportion to the
lease space or building to which they are related, with lettering and logos
that occupy no more than seventy-five percent (75%) of the sign face area. See
Figure 9-1F-5-D (Example of Appropriate Sign Proportion and Rhythm).
J.   Illuminated Signs and Lights: The following standards shall apply to all
illuminated signs.
   1.   Sign illumination shall not interfere with the use and enjoyment of
adjacent properties, create a public nuisance, or create public safety hazards.
Exterior light sources shall be shielded from view and directed to illuminate
only the sign face.
   2.   Signs may be internally or externally illuminated. Internal
illumination is allowed only if the sign background is opaque and the only
portion of the sign that appears as illuminated is the actual lettering and
registered trademark or logo.
   3.   The light from an illuminated sign shall not be of an intensity or
brightness or directed in a manner that will create a negative impact on
residential properties in direct line of sight to the sign.
   4.   Colored lights shall not be used at a location or in a manner so as to
be confused or construed as traffic control devices.
   5.   Reflective-type bulbs and incandescent lamps that exceed fifteen (15)
watts shall not be used on the exterior surface of signs so that the face of
the bulb or lamp is exposed to a public right-of-way or adjacent property.
   6.   Light sources shall utilize energy-efficient fixtures to the greatest
extent possible.
K.   Sign Removal or Replacement: When a sign is removed, all brackets, poles,
and other structural elements that supported the sign shall also be removed.
For wall-mounted signs, affected building surfaces shall be restored to match
the finish of the building, with a sign wiring removed and all holes and other
surface blemishes appropriately patched and finished (i.e., painted), subject
to the approval of the director.
L.   Fire Department or Law Enforcement Requirements: Building-mounted
addresses required by the Fire Chief or County Sheriff shall not be counted as
signs or sign area in compliance with Section
9-1F-5 (Exempt Signs). (Ord. 19-1036)
9-1F-8: PERMANENT SIGNS BY ZONE - LOCATIONS AND DESIGN REQUIREMENTS:
A.   Applicability: This section provides regulations for permanent signs by
designated zone districts. In the case of an inconsistency between regulations
provided in the tables and regulations provided for specific sign types, the
regulations for specific sign types shall take precedence. Figure 9-1F-3-K
(Examples of Sign Types) illustrates the typical mix of signs on a building.
B.   Maximum Allowable Sign Area: The total maximum allowable sign area for all
uses and sign types is one hundred fifty (150) square feet for each tenant
space, not including exempt signs as defined in Section
9-1F-5 (Exempt Signs).
 
A.   Residential Zones:
Allowed Sign    Maximum     Maximum Sign Maximum Sign Allowed      Illumination
Types (1)       Number      Area         Height       Locations    Allowed
1. Multi-Family Uses
Wall-Mounted                                          Wall-Mounted
and             1 per each                            sign: Below
freestanding    Primary and                           eave of roof
signs           Secondary   16 sf each   Freestanding or parapet.  Yes
(residential    Frontage of              sign: 4 ft   At primary
community       a multi-                              entrances to
identification) family use.                           residential
                                                      community.
1. Note: (1) New Cabinet Signs are prohibited
 
 
B.   Non-Residential and Mixed-Use Zones:
                Maximum   Maximum   Maximum
Allowed Sign    Number    Sign Area Sign      Allowed    Illumination Notes
Types (1)       (1)       (1)       Height    Locations  Allowed
                                    (1)
1. Single Tenant Sites
                          Primary
                          Building
                1 Wall-   Frontage
                Mounted   - 1 sf of
                Sign per  sign area
                Primary   per 1
                Building  linear
                Frontage, ft, not
                street or to exceed
                parking   150 sf.
                frontage. Secondar
                1 Wall-   y
                Mounted   Building
                Sign per  Frontage
                Secondary - 0.75 sf
                Building  of sign
                Frontage  area per
                .         1 linear
                1 Wall-   ft, not   See       May be                  Signs shall
a. Wall-        Mounted   to exceed section   located on              not project
Mounted Signs   Sign for  75% of    9-1F-     building   Yes          more than 12
(business       rear      primary   9 Tables  face or                 inches from
identification) facade    sign.     D, G and  parapet.                building .
                where     Rear      O
                clearly   Facade -
                marked    0.5 sf of
                customer  sign area
                access is per 1
                provided  linear ft
                to the    of rear
                building  facade,
                from the  if
                rear      customer
                parking   access is
                area.     provided
                3 wall    from the
                mounted   rear, not
                sings     to exceed
                maximum.  75% of
                          the
                          primary
                          sign.
                                    Must be
                                    mounted
                In                  to                                Sign may
                addition            provide a                         only extend
                to                  minimum   On Primary              over a
b. Blade/       permitted           of 7 ft.  Building                public
Bracket Signs   Wall-               of        Frontage,               right-of-way
(business       Mounted   6 sf      clearance first      Yes          if
identification) Signs, 1            from the  floor                   appropriate
                Blade/              public    only.                   encroachment
                Bracket             right-of-                         permits have
                sign is             way to                            been issued
                allowed.            the                               by the city.
                                    bottom of
                                    the sign.
                In
                addition
                to Wall-
                Mounted
                Sign, 1
                sign on             N/A
                each                Canopy or
                Primary             awning
                and                 must be                           Signs may
                Secondary 24 sf.    mounted                           only extend
                Building  The sign  to                                over a
                Frontage, shall not provide a                         public
                plus 1    cover     minimum   On canopy               right-of-way
c. Canopy and   sign for  more than of 7 ft.  or awning  Yes          if
Awning          rear      50% of    of        only.                   appropriate
                facade    the       clearance                         encroachment
                where     canopy or from the                          permits have
                clearly   awning.   public                            been issued
                marked              right-of-                         by the city.
                customer            way to
                access is           the
                provided            bottom of
                to the              the sign.
                building
                from the
                rear
                parking
                area.
                          Up to 25%
                          of the                                      Window signs
                          glass                                       shall be
                          area upon                                   constructed
                          which the                                   of durable
                          sign is                                     material,
                          located,            Window                  such as
                          per                 lettering               paint or
                          window.             permitted               decals and
d. Permanent    1 sign    Permanent           on         No (except   be
Window Signs    per       window    N/A       interior   luminous     permanently
(business       window    sign area           or         tube signs)  affixed to
identification)           shall               exterior                the window.
                          count               of glass                Signs shall
                          toward              window or               be placed to
                          the                 door only.              allow clear
                          overall                                     views into
                          allowed                                     the business
                          sign area                                   by emergency
                          for                                         responders
                          building
                          frontage.
                                    Lots 40
                                    ft or     May
                                    less      encroach
                                    maximum   into front
                                    of 4 ft;  setback
e. Monument     1 sign              Lots 41   area to
Signs (business per       40% of    feet to   within 5   Yes           
identification) street    sign face 100 feet  ft of
                frontage            maximum   property
                                    of 6 ft;  line or
                                    Lots      interior
                                    greater   driveway.
                                    than 100
                                    ft
                                                                      Will be
                                                                      reviewed by
f. On-site      2, or as                      Where                   the Director
Directio nal    approved  4 sf per  4 ft      needed to  Yes; low     to ensure
Signs           by the    sign face           provide    level        compliance
                Director                      direction.              with
                                                                      intended
                                                                      purpose.
(1) Unless an approved Iconic Sign. See Section
9-1F-10 (Iconic Signs).
 
 
C.   Non-Residential and Mixed-Use Zones:
                                                                                Maximum   Maximum
Allowed Sign    Maximum Number (1)(2)                                           Sign Area Sign      Allowed    Illumination Notes
Types (1)(2)                                                                    (1)(2)    Height    Locations  Allowed
                                                                                          (1)(2)
2. Multiple Tenant Sites
                                                                                Primary
                                                                                Building                                    100 linear
                                                                                Frontage                                    ft min.
                                                                                - 1 sf of                                   street
                                                                                sign area                                   frontage
                                                                                per 1                                       required.
                                                                                linear ft                                   Signs may
                                                                                Secondary                                   identify
                                                                                Building  See       May be                  center and 2
a. Wall-Mounted 1 sign per business on each Primary Building Frontage.          Frontage  Section   located on              major
Sign (tenant    For businesses also with Secondary Building Frontage, 1 sign    - 0.75 sf 9-1F-     the        Yes          tenants, or
identification) for the Secondary Building Frontage.                            of sign   9 Tables  building                3 major
                2 wall mounted signs per business maximum.                      area per  D, G, and face or                 tenants, if
                                                                                1 linear  O         parapet.                center is
                                                                                foot                                        not
                                                                                Total of                                    included.
                                                                                Primary                                     Signs shall
                                                                                and                                         not project
                                                                                Secondary                                   more than 12
                                                                                must not                                    inches from
                                                                                exceed                                      building.
                                                                                150 sf
                                                                                          Lots 40
                                                                                          ft or
                                                                                          less
                                                                                          maximum
                                                                                          of 4 ft;  May
                                                                                          Lots 41   encroach
                                                                                          feet to   into front
                                                                                          100 feet  setback
                                                                                          maximum   area to
b. Monument     1 sign per street frontage                                      40% of    of 6 ft;  within 5   Yes           
Sign                                                                            sign face Lots      ft of
                                                                                          greater   property
                                                                                          than 100  line or
                                                                                          ft        interior
                                                                                          maximum   driveway.
                                                                                          of 4% of
                                                                                          lot width
                                                                                          or 20 ft,
                                                                                          whichever
                                                                                          is less
                                                                                          N/A
                                                                                          Must be
                                                                                          mounted                           Sign may
                                                                                          to                                only extend
                                                                                          provide a                         over a
                                                                                          minimum   On Primary              public
c. Blade/                                                                                 of 7 ft   Building                right-of-way
Bracket Sign    In addition to permitted Wall-Mounted Signs, 1 Blade/Bracket    6 sf      of        Frontage,  Yes          if
(business       Sign per tenant is allowed                                                clearance first                   appropriate
identification)                                                                           from the  floor                   encroachment
                                                                                          public    only.                   permits have
                                                                                          right-of-                         been issued
                                                                                          way to                            by the city.
                                                                                          the
                                                                                          bottom of
                                                                                          the sign.
d. Canopy and                                                                                                           
Awning
                                                                                Where     N/A
                                                                                such sign Canopy or
                                                                                is in     awning
                                                                                addition  must be
                                                                                to        mounted                           Sign may
                                                                                another   to                                only extend
                                                                                permitte  provide a                         over a
                In addition to Wall-Mounted Sign, 1 sign on each Primary and    d sign,   minimum                           public
Signs (business Secondary Building Frontage, plus 1 sign for rear façade where 24 sf.    of 7 ft   On canopy               right-of-way
identification) clearly marked customer access is provided to the building from In no     of        or awning  Yes          if
                the rear parking area.                                          case      clearance only.                   appropriate
                                                                                shall the from the                          encroachment
                                                                                sign      height of                         permits have
                                                                                cover     adjacent                          been issued
                                                                                more than curb to                           by the city.
                                                                                50% of    the
                                                                                the       bottom of
                                                                                canopy or the sign.
                                                                                awning.
                                                                                Up to 25%
                                                                                of the                                      Window signs
                                                                                glass                                       shall be
                                                                                area upon                                   constructed
                                                                                which the                                   of durable
                                                                                sign is                                     material,
                                                                                located,            Window                  such as
                                                                                per                 lettering               paint or
                                                                                window.             permitted               decals and
e. Permanent                                                                    Permanent           on         No (except   be
window signs    1 sign per window                                               window    N/A       interior   luminous     permanently
(business                                                                       sign area           or         tube signs)  affixed to
identification)                                                                 shall               exterior                the window.
                                                                                count               of glass                Signs shall
                                                                                toward              window or               be placed to
                                                                                the                 door only.              allow clear
                                                                                overall                                     views into
                                                                                allowed                                     the business
                                                                                sign area                                   by emergency
                                                                                for                                         responders.
                                                                                building
                                                                                frontage.
                                                                                                                            May include
                                                                                                                            only the
                                                                                                    At                      name and
f. Name plate                                                                   2 sf per            exterior                occupation
(occupant       1 per business; Intended for office uses only.                  plate     N/A       entrance   N/A          of the
identification)                                                                                     to                      occupant.
                                                                                                    building.               No Sign
                                                                                                                            Permit
                                                                                                                            required.
g. On-site                                                                      As        As        Where                   As approved
Directional     As approved by the Director                                     approved  approved  needed to  Yes; low     by the
Signs                                                                           by the    by the    provide    level        Director
                                                                                Director  Director  direction.
(1) Unless an approved Iconic Sign. See Section
9-1F-10 (Iconic Sign).
 
 
D.   All Other Zones:
Signs in all other zones not specified within this Section shall be subject to
approval through a Comprehensive Sign Program in compliance with Section
9-1F-14 (Comprehensive Sign Program). (Ord. 19-1036; amd. Ord. 20-1047)
 
9-1F-9: SPECIFIC TYPES OF PERMANENT SIGNS:
This section provides additional standards for specific types of permanent
signs to be used in combination with the requirements of Section
9-1F-8 (Permanent Signs by Zone - Locations and Design Requirements).
A.    Awning and Canopy Signs:
   1.   Sign Location:
      a.   Awning signs shall be allowed for first and second story
nonresidential occupancies only.
      b.   Awning signs shall not be allowed above the second story.
      c.   Signs shall be applied on the outer face of and flat against the
awning surface. In the case of a barrel shaped (curved) awning, signs shall not
occupy more than sixty percent (60%) of the bottom twelve inches (12") of the
awning. In no event shall a sign cover more than fifty percent (50%) of an
awning or canopy.
      d.   A minimum of seven feet (7') of clearance shall be provided between
the lowest part of an awning and adjoining curb height below. See
Figure 9-1F-9-A (Height of Awning).
   2.   Sign Design:
      a.   The design and construction of awning signs shall be compatible with
the predominant architectural and visual elements of the structure to which
they are attached.
      b.   Awnings shall conform to the size and shape of the window or door
they are above.
      c.   Overly large awnings and canopies with unusual shapes designed to
provide additional sign area are not allowed.
   3.   Lighting: Lighting of awning signs is permitted, if lighting does not
point upwards or into public right-of-way.
   4.   Temporary Sign: Only permanent signs that are an integral part of the
awning shall be allowed. Temporary signs shall not be placed on awnings or
canopies.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3780.png]
Figure 9-1F-9-A Height of Awning
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3782.png]
Awning with valance and sloping plane
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3784.png]
Wrap-around awning
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3786.png]
Awning combined with a Wall-Mounted Sign
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3788.png]
Awning customized to architectural features
B.   Blade/Bracket Signs:
   1.   Sign Area: Double-faced projecting signs shall be considered a single-
face sign for the purpose of calculating sign area.
   2.   Sign Location:
      a.   Signs may be placed perpendicular to the building façade
(projecting) near the building entrance.
      b.   For a building on a corner lot, blade signs are encouraged to be
located on the corner or face of the building on the street corner. Corner
mounted blade signs should be mounted at a forty-five (45)-degree horizontal
angle so that its two (2) sides are equally visible from both streets.
   3.   Sign Design:
      a.    Supporting arms or frames for projecting signs shall be of a
decorative design compatible with the design of the sign.
      b.    Blade signs shall project no more than four feet (4') from the face
of the building wall upon which the sign is mounted.
      c.    Support wires may be used for lateral support when fully within the
horizontal plane of the sign. Any angle iron or secondary support, other than
support wires, shall be enclosed in a form constructed of impermeable material.
C.   Murals: Murals may only be installed and maintained by approval of the
planning commission. Murals may only be in on a parcel designated by the
General Plan as Institutional or Open Space. The Planning Commission shall have
the authority to review and approve murals in compliance with this article.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3790.png]
Simple Blade Sign under Awning
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3792.png]
Architectural Blade Sign
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3794.png]
Blade Sign with iron mount Creative Blade Sign
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3796.png]
Blade Sign with iron mount
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3798.png]
Hanging Blade Sign
D.   Cabinet Signs (Wall-Mounted or Monument):
   1.   Where Allowed: New cabinet signs are not permitted. However, the
retrofit and reuse of an existing, legally established cabinet sign for a new
use or business is permitted subject to the requirements of Subsection C.
   2.   Sign Lighting:
      a.    Cabinet signs may only be internally illuminated. No exposed
lighting such as neon tubing, LED lighting, light bulb arrangement or similar
is allowed.
      b.   The light source of illuminated cabinet signs shall not be visible
from or cast into the right-of- way nor cause glare hazards to passersby or
adjacent properties.
      c.   Light sources shall not be mounted to any part of the sign.
   3.   Sign Design:
      a.   Only translucent letter faces, reverse lit channel letters, or push-
through acrylic letters and images are allowed. The background of the cabinet
sign must be opaque, non-transparent.
      b.   Where a cabinet sign is being retrofitted for reuse and the cabinet
border is to be replaced, such border shall consist of a color other than white
that is complementary to the sign face and/or a building to which it may be
attached.
E.   Changeable Copy Sign (Electronic):
   1.   Where Allowed:
      a.   Electronic changeable copy signs are only permitted subject to
approval of a major sign permit, and shall be located on a permitted monument
or marquee sign.
      b.   The number of changeable copy signs is limited to one (1) per
property.
      c.   Changeable copy signs are limited to elementary, middle, junior
high, or high schools, assembly uses, theaters, and city facilities.
   2.   Sign Display:
      a.   Sign images shall not change more often than every eight (8)
seconds, and transitions between images shall not exceed one (1) second.
      b.   The images shall change instantaneously, with no special effects or
video.
      c.   All the messages conveyed by the sign shall display static messages
with no animation, or effects simulating animation including but not limited to
dissolving, fading, scrolling, traveling, flashing, spinning, revolving, and
shaking.
      d.   The maximum square footage of the portion of a monument or marquee
sign dedicated to changeable copy is limited to fifty percent (50%) of the sign
permitted.
      e.   The sign shall be equipped with photosensitive equipment that is
programmed to automatically adjust the brightness and contrast of the sign. The
maximum brightness levels for the sign shall not exceed five thousand (5000)
nits when measured from the sign face during daytime, and five hundred (500)
nits when measured from the sign face at night.
   3.   Sign Design:
      a.   Signs shall have a photometric sensor that will adjust the intensity
of the sign for daytime and nighttime viewing. The nighttime intensity shall be
limited to three tenths (0.3)-foot candles (over ambient levels) as measured at
a height of five feet (5') above the ground and between one hundred fifty (150)
and three hundred fifty (350) feet from the sign under consideration, depending
on the size of the sign, and aimed at the sign.
      b.   The city may modify or further restrict the intensity of any
electronic changeable copy sign should the lighting create a distraction to
drivers.
      c.    Each sign structure must, always, include a facing of proper
dimensions to conceal back bracing and framework of structural members and/or
any electrical equipment. During periods of repair or alteration such facing
may be removed for a maximum period of forty-eight (48) consecutive hours.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3800.png]
Cabinet Sign with push-through letters
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3802.png]
Cabinet Sign with push-through letter
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3804.png]
Changeable Copy Sign with electronic reader board
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3806.png]
Changeable Copy Sign with electronic reader board
F.   Changeable Copy Sign (Manual):
   1.   Where Allowed:
      a.    New manual changeable copy signs are only permitted as an
improvement to an existing, non-conforming changeable copy sign or in
conjunction with a new public assembly use. Such signs shall require approval
of a minor sign permit.
      b.   The number of changeable copy signs is limited to one (1) per
property.
   2.   Sign Display:
      a.   Changeable copy displays may be installed on freestanding, marquee,
monument, and wall-mounted signs. The area of the changeable copy display shall
be counted toward the allowable sign area for the type of sign up on which the
changeable copy is installed.
      b.   Maximum size of changeable copy area is six (6) square feet.
   3.   Sign Design Compatible: The design and construction of manual
changeable copy signs shall be compatible with the predominant architectural
and visual elements of the structure for which the signs are intended.
   4.   Lighting: Manual changeable copy signs shall not be internally lit
unless they use opaque inserts with translucent copy; blank opaque inserts that
are the same color as the opaque portions of the copy are used over all areas
of the sign where copy is not present; and the opaque portion of the copy is
the same color.
G.   Channel Letter Signs (Wall-Mounted):
   1.   Sign Design:
      a.   Only translucent letter faces, reverse lit channel letters, or push-
through acrylic letters are allowed. Foam and vinyl letters are not allowed.
      b.   Exposed raceways are prohibited unless necessitated by structural
features and subject to a determination by the director that unique conditions
exist.
   2.   Sign Lighting:   
      a.   Channel letter signs may only be internally illuminated. No open
face channel letters are allowed where the method of illumination such as neon
tubing, LED lighting, light bulb arrangement or similar is exposed.
      b.   The light source of illuminated channel letter signs shall not be
visible from or cast into the right-of-way nor cause glare hazards to passersby
or adjacent properties.
      c.   Light sources shall not be mounted to any part of the sign.
H.   Directional Signs:
   1.   Sign Design: Maximum size of sign to be determined through Minor Site
Plan Review.
   2.   Sign Location: Maximum size of sign to be determined through Minor Site
Plan Review.
   3.   Number of Signs: Maximum size of sign to be determined through Minor
Site Plan Review.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3808.png]
Changeable Copy Sign with manual reader board
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3810.png]
Off-Site Directional Sign
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3812.png]
Push-through Channel Letter Sign (Wall-Mounted)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3814.png]
On-Site Directional Sign
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3816.png]
Reverse lit Channel Letter Sign (Wall-Mounted)
I.   Embedded Plaque Signs:
   1.   Sign Area: Maximum size of sign to be determined though Minor Site Plan
Review.
   2.   Sign Location: Signs shall be located on private property.
   3.   Sign Design: Signs shall be flush and permanently embedded in the
ground.
J.   Luminous Tube Signs (Exterior):
   1.   Sign Area: The borders of luminous tubes shall be considered part of a
sign for purposes of calculating the maximum allowable sign area.
   2.   Sign Design:
      a.   Luminous tube lighting shall be listed with UL (Underwriters
Laboratories).
      b.   Tubing shall not exceed one-half inch (1/2") in diameter.
      c.   Luminous tubes shall not be combined with any reflective materials
(e.g., mirrors, polished metal, highly glazed tiles, or other similar
materials).
      d.   Luminous tube lighting that surrounds a window, door, or similar
element or that is installed along roofs or that outlines buildings shall be
prohibited.
   3.   Sign Lighting:   
      a.   Luminous tube lighting adjacent to residential uses shall not exceed
one-half (1/2) foot-candle measured at the residential lot line.
      b.   Signs shall have thirty (30) milliamps per circuit maximum and a
dimmer to reduce brightness.
K.   Mansard Roof Signs:
   1.   Sign Location:
      a.   For signs placed on mansard style roofs, signs placed on a wall of a
structure may not project above the eave line of a mansard roof a distance
greater than twenty percent (20%) of the distance between the ground level and
the top of mansard roof.
      b.    Signs placed on a mansard roof may not project above the top of the
roof.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3818.png]
Mansard Roof Sign Location
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3820.png]
Tile Embedded Plaque Sign
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3822.png]
Exterior Luminous Tube Sign
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3824.png]
Metal Embedded Plaque Sign
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3826.png]
LED Sign
L.   Marquee Signs:
   1.   Sign Design:
      a.    Marquee signs shall only be attached to marquees having a vertical
plane angle less than twenty (20) degrees.
      b.   No marquee sign shall extend more than two feet (2') above any
marquee to which it is attached.
      c.   Marquee signs shall not extend beyond the ends or extremities of the
marquee to which they are attached except as provided above.
      d.   Marquee signs shall be mounted substantially parallel with the face
of the marquee.
   2.   Sign Lighting:
      a.   Any lighting of marquee signs shall follow the Electrical Code and
shall not cause disturbing glare onto any adjacent areas due to excessive
brightness or method of illumination.
      b.   Any devices or structures used in conjunction with direct
illumination of marquee signs shall either be concealed from general view,
recessed into a building or structure, or function as decorative element in
keeping with the character of the sign and the building to which it is
attached.
      c.   The direct illumination of marquee signs shall be subject to
approval by the director.
   3.   Where Permitted:
      a.   Only permitted for theaters in a non-residential zone.
      b.   Counted towards allowable sign area.
M.   Monument Signs:
   1.   Sign Location:
      a.   There shall be a minimum of fifty feet (50') between.
      b.   Monument Signs either on the same site or on adjoining sites to
ensure adequate visibility for all signs.
      c.   Monument Signs shall be a minimum of fifty feet (50') from a lot
line of any residentially zoned property.
      d.   Monument Signs shall be set back at least five feet (5') from any
public right-of-way, building, on-site driveway, or on-site vehicle circulation
area.
      e.   The maximum width of a monument sign shall be as follows:
         (1)   For lots less than forty feet (40') in width the maximum width
is four feet, six inches (4' 6").
         (2)   For lots forty-one (41) feet to one hundred (100) feet in width
the maximum width is six feet (6').
         (3)   For lots greater than one hundred feet (100') in width the
maximum width of the sign shall be no more than one and one-half (1.5) time the
height of the sign if the sign is less than five feet (5') in height. If the
sign is five feet (5') or more in height, the maximum width shall not exceed
seventy-five hundredths (.75) times the height of the sign.
   2.   Sign Design:
      a.   The minimum letter size shall be nine inches (9"). Sign copy shall
not be located closer than one-half (1/2) letter height to the sign edge or
other line of copy.
      b.   Where there is a center name or building identification that is
separate from the primary tenant, the center name or building identification
shall be provided and predominantly displayed on the primary monument sign and
shall be counted towards the allowable sign area. This center name or
identification sign should be incorporated as a permanent feature of the
monument sign.
      c.   Monument signs shall contain an address plate identifying the site
address or range of addresses of the subject property. Numbers shall be a
minimum of five inches (5") in height and shall be clearly visible from the
public right-of-way. Address plates shall not be calculated against the allowed
sign area.
      d.   Individual channel letters on a background, reverse channel letters,
or push-through acrylic letter designs are preferred.
   3.    Landscaping: Landscaping with automatic irrigation shall be provided
at the base of the supporting structure equal to twice the area of one face of
the sign or seventy-five (75) square feet, whichever is greater. For example,
forty (40) square feet of sign area equals eighty (80) square feet of
landscaped area. The director may modify this requirement on a case-by-case
basis to consider existing conditions.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3828.png]
Marquee Sign
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3830.png]
Monument Sign with channel letters
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3832.png]
Pedestrian-scale Monument Sign
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3834.png]
Monument Sign with push-through letters
N.   Window Signs - Permanent:
   1.   Sign Dimensions: Interior signs within five feet (5') of a storefront
window shall be counted as window signs for the purpose of calculating total
sign area and number of signs.
   2.   Sign Location: Signs shall be allowed only on windows located on the
ground floor and second story of either a designated primary or secondary
building frontage. Window signs shall not be allowed above the second story.
   3.   Permit Requirements: Permanent LED/luminous tube window signs may be
allowed through a minor sign permit.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3836.png]
Permanent Window Sign
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3838.png]
Permanent luminous tube Window Sign
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3840.png]
Permanent Window Sign
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3842.png]
Permanent Window Sign
O.   Wall-Mounted Signs:
   1.   Sign Letter Dimensions: The letter height of a secondary wall-mounted
sign shall not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the letter height of a primary
wall-mounted sign (e.g., if letters on primary sign are eighteen inches (18")
high, then letters on accessory wall-mounted sign cannot exceed nine inches
(9") in height).
   2.   Sign Location:
      a.   Signs shall be located only on a designated building frontage and
shall not extend above an eave or parapet, or above or below a fascia on which
they are located. See Figure 9-1F-9-0-1 (Appropriate Wall-Mounted Sign
Location).
      b.   Signs located on adjacent walls of the same building (e.g., on a
primary frontage wall and secondary frontage wall) shall be separated by a
minimum distance of thirty feet (30') measured along the exterior walls of the
building.
      c.   Signs on primary or secondary frontages shall be located within the
middle fifty percent (50%) of the building or tenant frontage measured from
lease line to lease line. The director may modify this requirement where it can
be clearly demonstrated that it severely limits proper sign placement. See
Figure 9-1F-9-0-1 (Wall-Mounted Sign Location on Building Frontage).
   3.   Sign Design:
      a.   Wall-mounted signs may not be painted directly on a wall, unless
through an approved comprehensive sign program, or as permitted through Section
9-1F-10 (Iconic Signs).
      b.   Electrical raceways shall be prohibited unless the director
determines that unique circumstances prevent an alternative design. Where such
circumstances are found to exist, the electrical raceways shall be integrated
with the overall design of the sign.
      c.   Signs shall be placed flat against the wall and shall not project
from the wall more than required for normal construction purposes and in no
case more than twelve inches (12").
   4.   Lighting:
      a.   Signs may be either internally or externally illuminated.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3844.png]
Figure 9-1F-9-O-1 Appropriate Wall-mounted Sign Location on Building Frontage
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3846.png]
Wall-Mounted Sign with push-through metal letters
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3848.png]
Wall-Mounted Sign with push-through acrylic letters
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3850.png]
Wall-Mounted Sign with push-through metal letters and approved painted sign
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3852.png]
Wall-Mounted Signs on primary and secondary building frontages
(Ord. 19-1036; amd. Ord. 22-1060)
9-1F-10: ICONIC SIGNS:
A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to:
   1.   Preserve the City of Temple City's unique character, history, and
identity, as reflected in its iconic signs;
   2.   Preserve the historical sign vernacular of Downtown Temple City and
other areas of the city with concentrations of surviving period signage; and
   3.   Protect the community from inappropriate reuse of nonconforming and/or
illegal signs.
B.   Applicability: This section applies to legally established existing signs
in the City of Temple City that can be characterized as follows, as determined
by the director.
   1.   Iconic signs shall conform to all the following technical features:
      a.   The sign uses materials and technology representative of its period
of construction.
      b.   The sign is detached, projecting, or roof mounted.
      c.   The sign is structurally safe or can be made safe without
substantially altering its original appearance.
   2.   Iconic signs shall conform to two (2) or more of the following cultural
or vernacular design features:
      a.   The sign exemplifies the cultural, economic, or period heritage of
Temple City.
      b.   The sign exhibits extraordinary aesthetic quality, creativity, or
innovation.
      c.   The sign is unique; the sign is obsolete sign copy that is
originally associated with a chain or franchise business that it either local
or regional chain or franchise only found in Temple City or the southwestern
United States; or there is scholarly documentation to support its preservation;
or it is a rare surviving example of a once common type.
      d.   The sign retains most of its character-defining features. If
character-defining features have been altered or removed, the majority are
potentially restorable to their original function and appearance.
      e.   The sign is at least fifty (50) years old.
C.   Where Allowed:
   1.   Iconic signs are allowed in commercial and industrial zones when
conforming to the requirements of this Section
9-1F-10 (Iconic Signs).
   2.   Relocation of an iconic sign shall be permitted through an approved
major sign permit, provided the following requirements are met:
      a.   Relocation shall be to a location within the original premises or to
a location within the specific neighborhood in which it is located.
      b.   If relocated to another premise, the sign shall display a
conspicuous text or a plaque, using a template provided by the City of Temple
City, that indicates that the sign has been relocated, the date of relocation,
and the original location.
   3.   Iconic signs are exempt from the provisions of Subsection
9-1F-18-B (Removal of Abandoned Signs) and Section
9-1F-17 (Nonconforming Signs). Any alteration, modification, or relocation of
an existing iconic sign shall be subject to the provisions of Section
9-1F-14 (Comprehensive Sign Program).
D.   Maintenance and Modifications: Iconic signs shall be structurally sound
and comply with the requirements of Section
9-1F-10-B (Iconic Signs, Applicability), or will be brought into conformance
with such requirements within a reasonable and specified time.
E.   Change in Sign Copy:
   1.   Text changes shall not result in changes to character-defining text, as
determined by the director.
   2.   Text changes shall match or be compatible with existing text in
material(s), letter size, font/typography, and color as determined by the
director. (Ord. 19-1036)
9-1F-11: SIGNS FOR SPECIFIC USES:
A.   Drive-Through Establishments: In addition to the signs allowed in Section
9-1F-8 (Permanent Signs by Zone - Locations and Allowed Sign Area), drive-
through food service establishments shall be allowed the following signs:
   1.   One (1) freestanding drive through board with copy on a single face not
to exceed fifty (50) square feet in sign area and seven feet (7') in height,
located immediately adjacent to the drive-through lane, and readable only on
site. Copy on a drive through board may be an electronic changeable copy sign,
but must meet the lighting standards for electronic changeable copy sign in
section
9-1F-9, Table E.
   2.   A second drive through board not to exceed sixteen (16) square feet in
sign area and five feet (5') in height, located in the immediate area of the
drive-through lane only, and readable only on site. Copy on a drive through
board may be an electronic changeable copy sign, but must meet the performance
standards for electronic changeable copy sign.
   3.   Directional signs shall be the least number to provide adequate
directional information and to ensure safe circulation. Signs shall not exceed
four (4) square feet and shall be limited in copy to the terms "enter," "exit,"
and directional arrows.
B.   Home Occupations: See section
9-1T-16 (Zoning Regulations).
C.   Places of Assembly: In addition to signs allowed in Section
9-1F-8 (Permanent Signs by Zone - Locations and Allowed Sign Area), facilities
whose activities and events change on a regular basis (e.g., places of
assembly, skate rinks, theaters, stadiums, etc.) shall be allowed the following
additional signs:
   1.   Theaters with three (3) or more screens shall be allowed an additional
fifteen (15) square feet of sign area for each additional screen over three
(3).
   2.   Glass encasements for special advertisements shall be allowed to be
affixed to the Primary Building Frontage. Encasements shall not exceed a width
of three feet (3') or a height of four feet (4'), the number of which shall be
approved by the director.
   3.   Changeable copy electronic signs.
D.   Service Stations: In addition to the signs allowed in Section
9-1F-8 (Permanent Signs by Zone - Locations and Allowed Sign Area), service
stations shall be allowed the following signs:
   1.   Service stations shall be allowed one (1) wall or monument sign for
each street frontage. A combination of wall and monument signs may be used, but
no more than a total of three (3) signs. For purposes of this section, the
canopy over the fuel pumps may be considered a building wall.
   2.   Wall-Mounted Signs shall not exceed ten percent (10%) of the building
face, with a maximum size of thirty (30) square feet for each sign, and not
exceed past the roofline. A total maximum of two (2) wall-mounted signs are
permitted per service station.
   3.   Monument signs shall conform to the sign design standards provided in
Section
9-1F-9 (Specific Types of Permanent Signs). A total maximum of two (2) monument
signs are permitted per service station.
   4.   Additional special service signs are allowed up to a maximum of two (2)
per each service island, provided that the signs are located at the site of the
service provided (e.g., air/water, lube, brakes, etc.) and that each sign does
not exceed three (3) square feet.
   5.   Instructional and warning signs and signs required or authorized by
state or federal law shall be exempt from the provisions of this subsection.
   6.   No signs are allowed on pumps other than those signs listed in item 5,
above.
   7.   Electronic changeable copy signs no more than one (1) square feet in
size are allowed on top of each pump and must meet the lighting requirements of
Section
9-1F-9-F (Specific Types of Permanent Signs). (Ord. 19-1036)
9-1F-12: TEMPORARY SIGNS:
The following types of temporary signs are permitted subject to the standards
of this section. A temporary sign permit shall be obtained from the director
prior to displaying temporary signage, unless otherwise specified.
A.   A-Frame Signs (Permit Required):
   1.   Number of Signs: One (1) per business maximum.
   2.   Maximum Size: Two (2) feet by three feet.
   3.   Location: Permitted only on private property, or within public right
way through an approved encroachment permit.
   4.   Duration/Frequency: Only during hours of business operation for
patrons/shall be removed after business hours.
B.   Banners (Permit Required): See Subsection
9-1F-12-I (Special Event Signs).
C.   Banners within the Public Right of Way (Permit Required): No temporary
sign shall be permitted on or extend over any property or public easement of
any other domain owned or controlled by the City of Temple City without
approval pursuant to the city's Street Banner Policy, except as otherwise
provided by law.
D.   Construction Signs (No Permit Required):
   1.   Number of Signs: One (1) per site maximum.
   2.   Sign Types: Ground or wall mount only.
   3.   Total Sign Face Area: Sixteen (16) square feet per sign face maximum in
commercial and industrial zones, and four-square feet in residential zones.
   4.   Sign Height: Six (6) feet maximum.
   5.   Duration/Frequency: Begins with the issuance of a Building Permit, or
its functional equivalent, and ends with the issuance of the earliest of the
following: a Certificate of Completion, a Certificate of Occupancy, a final
inspection sign-off, or the functional equivalent of any of them.
E.   Election Periods - Temporary Noncommercial Signs (No Permit Required):
During any election period, the following additional opportunities for
temporary noncommercial signs are permitted, subject to the following
regulations.
   1.   Number of Signs: Each parcel in all zones is permitted eight temporary
freestanding noncommercial signs. Such signs are in addition to all other signs
allowed in this chapter.
   2.   Duration: May be placed no more than forty-five (45) days before an
election and must be removed within seven (7) days of an election.
   3.   Height:
      a.   In residential zones, a temporary freestanding noncommercial sign
may not exceed four feet (4') in height from the adjacent ground level to the
top of the sign.
      b.   In zones other than residential zones, the bottom of the sign may
not exceed four feet (4') in height and the top of the sign may not exceed ten
feet (10') in height.
   4.   Size:
      a.   In residential zones no temporary freestanding noncommercial sign
may a face exceeding six (6) square feet in total area. Signs may be double
sided.
      b.   In all zones other than residential zones the maximum cumulative
sign area may not exceed thirty-two (32) square feet.
      c.   The maximum size is limited to eighteen (18) inches by twenty-four
inches (24"), with an overall height of thirty-six inches (36") when mounted on
a stake.
   5.   Maintenance: Signs must be maintained in good condition, without fading
or severe degradation of material.
   6.   Location: Signs may be attached to a structure or placed within a
required front or corner side yard setback, but not in the public right-of-way.
   7.   Lighting: Temporary freestanding noncommercial signs may not be
illuminated.
F.   Garage Sale or Yard Sale Signs (No Permit Required): See Municipal Code
Article 4-2-D (Garage Sales) for regulations regarding garage sale signs.
G.   Holiday Window Sign (No Permit Required): All signs and decorations shall
be removed within ten (10) days following the applicable holiday. No permit is
required.
H.   Real Estate Signs (No Permit Required):
   1.   Number of Signs:
      a.   In R-1 Zone, one (1) sign maximum per lot.
      b.   In all other zones, one (1) sign per street frontage with a maximum
of three (3).
   2.   Duration: May only be installed while the dwelling is for sale or the
unit is for rent and must be removed within seven (7) days after close of
escrow or the unit being rented.
   3.   Size:
      a.   In R-1 Zone, the maximum sign area is limited to two (2) square feet
with an additional one (1) square feet of sign area for incidental signs. Signs
may be hung from devices no taller than five feet (5') in height.
      b.   In all other zones, the maximum sign area is limited to twenty-five
(25) square feet per sign. Signs may be hung from or attached to devices no
taller than five feet (5') in height.
   4.   Maintenance: Signs must be maintained in good condition, without fading
or severe degradation of material.
   5.   Location:
      a.   In the R-1 Zone, signs may be attached to a structure or placed
within a required front or corner side yard setback, but not in the public
right-of-way.
      b.   In all other zones, signs may be attached to a structure or placed
within a required front or corner side yard setback, but not in the public
right-of-way. Signs must comply with the corner cutback provisions of 9-1N-2.
Multiple signs should be located one hundred feet (100') apart, unless site
configuration issues make this requirement infeasible.
I.   Special Event Signs on Private Property (Permit Required):
   1.   Number of Signs: One (1) per business maximum.
   2.   Duration/Frequency: Limited to the duration of the sale or event, but
in no case shall a sign be in place in excess of thirty (30) consecutive days.
There shall be a break of at least sixty (60) days between the end of one
thirty (30)-day posting or placement period and the beginning of another thirty
(30)-day posting or placement period. Signs shall be limited to one hundred
twenty (120) total days per calendar year.
   3.   Sign Types: Temporary signs for special events (e.g., carnivals,
charitable events, grand openings, holiday sales, parades, promotional sales,
etc.). Special event signs may only include inflated display signs and banners.
Balloons, pennants, and streamers may be attached to approved signs.
   4.   Design: Banners shall not exceed fifteen feet (15') in length or three
feet (3') in height, and may be displayed on wall or fence areas only.
   5.   Maintenance: Promotional signs and any attachments must always be
maintained in good and attractive condition and shall be secured so as not to
cause any safety hazards or constitute a nuisance.
   6.   Location: Must be located on private property.
J.   Window Signs (Permit Required):
   1.   Total Sign Face Area: Twenty-five percent (25%) of each window area on
either a designated primary and secondary building frontage. For the purpose of
this requirement, a window is any glazed area, including glass curtain walls.
Interior signs oriented toward and within five feet (5') of a storefront window
shall be counted as window signs for the purpose of calculating area of window
coverage.
   2.   Location:
      a.   Only on windows located on the ground floor and second story of
either a designated primary and secondary building frontage.
      b.   The placement of window signs shall allow for unobstructed
observation by safety personnel (e.g., law enforcement, private security,
etc.).
   3.   Duration: May be in place year-round.
   4.   No temporary sign permit shall be required.
K.   Flags (No Sign Permit Required):
   1.   Number:
      a.   On residentially zoned properties one (1) flagpole per property is
allowed.
      b.   On government owned properties there is no limit to the number of
flag poles.
      c.   On non-residentially zoned properties owned by non-governmental
persons or businesses the maximum number of flag poles is one (1).
   2.   Flags: A maximum of three (3) flags are allowed per flagpole.
   3.   Maintenance: Flag must be maintained in good condition.
   4.   Size:
      a.   In residential zones, the maximum length of a flag is five feet
(5').
      b.   On non-residentially zoned properties owned by non-governmental
persons or businesses the maximum length of a flag is eight feet (8').
      c.   On government owned properties there is no limit to the size of
flags allowed. (Ord. 19-1036; amd. Ord. 23-1069)
9-1F-13: PROCEDURES FOR SIGN PERMITS, EXEMPTIONS, AND REVOCATIONS:
A.   Sign Permits, Types: To ensure compliance with the regulations contained
in this article, a sign permit shall be required in order to erect, move,
alter, change copy on, or reconstruct any permanent or temporary sign or sign
structure except for signs exempt from permits in compliance with Subsection D,
below. There are four (4) different types of sign permits required based on the
proposed sign type. For all sign permit types, an application for a sign permit
shall be made in writing on forms provided by the city.
   1.   Temporary Sign Permit: Section
9-1F-12 outlines requirements for temporary signs.
   2.   Minor Sign Permit:
      a.   Sign Types: The city requires approval of a minor sign permit when
the director's discretionary review is required. Sign types that require a
minor sign permit include:
         (1)   Awning/canopy signs.
         (2)   Changeable copy signs (manual).
         (3)   Embedded plaque signs.
         (4)   Permanent window signs.
         (5)   Blade/bracket signs.
         (6)   Wall-mounted signs.
      b.   Minor Site Plan Review: The application, approval authority, public
hearing and noticing requirements for a minor sign permit are the same as a
minor site plan review.
      c.   Findings: The director may approve minor sign permit only if all the
following findings are made:
         (1)   The proposed sign complies with all applicable provisions of
this Zoning Code and is consistent with the General Plan and any applicable
specific plan.
         (2)   The proposed sign, as submitted or modified by conditions of
approval is consistent with the applicable design guidelines.
         (3)   The proposed sign is architecturally and aesthetically
compatible with the major structures on the subject site and adjacent sites and
is compatible with the character of the established neighborhood and general
environment.
         (4)   Granting the application would not be detrimental or injurious
to property or improvements in the vicinity of the subject site, or to the
public health, safety, or general welfare.
         (5)   The approval of the minor sign permit complies with the
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA).
   3.   Major Sign Permit:
      a.   Sign Types: The city requires approval of a major sign permit when
the planning commission's discretionary review is required. Sign types that
require a major sign permit include:
         (1)   Monument signs.
         (2)   Murals.
         (3)   Relocation of iconic signs.
         (4)   Signs that require a comprehensive sign program.
         (5)   Electronic changeable copy signs.
         (6)   Marquee signs.
      b.   Major Site Plan Review: The application, approval authority, public
hearing and noticing requirements for a major sign permit are the same as a
major site plan review.
      c.   Findings: The director may approve a major sign permit only if all
the following findings are made:
         (1)   The proposed sign complies with all applicable provisions of
this Zoning Code and is consistent with the General Plan and any applicable
specific plan.
         (2)   The proposed sign, as submitted or modified by conditions of
approval is consistent with the applicable design guidelines.
         (3)   The proposed sign is architecturally and aesthetically
compatible with the major structures on the subject site and adjacent sites and
is compatible with the character of the established neighborhood and general
environment.
         (4)   Granting the application would not be detrimental or injurious
to property or improvements in the vicinity of the subject site, or to the
public health, safety, or general welfare.
         (5)   The approval of the minor sign permit complies with the
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA).
   4.   Creative Sign Permit: The city requires approval of a creative sign
permit when requesting use of creative signs as specified in Subsection B,
below.
B.   Creative Signs:
   1.   Purpose. This subsection establishes standards and procedures for the
design, processing, review, and final determination on creative sign proposals.
The purposes of the creative sign program are to:
      a.   Encourage signs of unique design that exhibit a high degree of
creativity, imagination, inventiveness, spirit, and thoughtfulness, and that
add value to their setting; and
      b.   Provide a process for the application of sign regulations in ways
that will allow creatively designed signs that make a positive visual
contribution to the overall image of the city, while mitigating the impacts of
otherwise large or unusually designed or placed signs.
   2.   Applicability: An applicant may request approval of a sign permit for a
creative sign to authorize on-site signs that employ standards that may differ
from the other provisions of this chapter, but otherwise comply with the
provisions of this subsection.
   3.   Application Requirements: A sign permit application for a creative sign
shall include all the information and materials specified by this subsection
and as required by the director and the filing fee specified by the council's
Fee Resolution.
   4.   Applicable Review Authority:
      a.   A sign permit application for a creative sign shall be subject to
review and final determination by the:
         (1)   Director, when the proposed total sign area is one hundred (100)
square feet or less; and
         (2)   Commission, when the proposed total sign area is larger than one
hundred (100) square feet.
      b.   Notification for a sign permit for a creative sign shall be given in
the same manner specified by this chapter.
      c.   The applicant may appeal the denial of a creative sign permit
application in compliance with Section
9-1C-5-G (Appeals).
   5.   Design Criteria: In approving an application for a creative sign, the
Applicable Review Authority shall first ensure that a proposed sign meets all
the following design criteria:
      a.   Design Quality: The sign shall:
         (1)   Constitute a substantial aesthetic improvement to the subject
site and shall have a positive visual impact on all the surrounding areas;
         (2)   Be of unique design and exhibit a high degree of creativity,
imagination, inventiveness, spirit, and thoughtfulness; and
         (3)   Provide strong graphic character through the imaginative use of
color, graphics, orientation, placement, proportion, quality materials, scale,
and texture.
      b.   Contextual Criteria: The sign shall contain one (1) or more of the
following elements:
         (1)   Classic historical design style;
         (2)   Creative image reflecting current or historic character of the
city; or
         (3)   Imaginative and inventive representation of the logo, name, and/
or use of the structure or business it relates to.
      c.   Architectural Criteria: The sign shall:
         (1)   Utilize or enhance the unique architectural elements of the
structure it relates to; and
         (2)   Be placed in a logical location in relation to the overall
composition of the structure's facade and not cover any key architectural
features and details of the facade.
      d.   Neighborhood Impacts: The creative sign shall be carefully designed
and placed so as not to cause undue light and glare impacts on surrounding
uses, especially residential uses.
C.   Sign Permits, Approving Authority: The director shall review all sign
permit applications for conformance with the provisions of this article. For
signs that comply with the provisions of this article and do not require
discretionary review:
      1.   The director shall approve or deny the permit application within
thirty (30) days from the receipt of a complete application and the applicable
fees.
      2.   Failure of the director to approve or deny the permit application
within the ninety (90) days shall result in the permit being denied.
      3.   If the application is denied, the director shall notify the
applicant with the reason(s) stated for denial. Notification shall be sent
first class United States mail to the address provided on the application that
shall be considered the correct address. Each applicant has the burden to
furnish any change of address to the director, by United States certified mail,
return receipt requested.
      4.   In the event an application is denied, the applicant may appeal the
director's decision in compliance with section
9-1C-5-G (Appeals).
D.   Exemptions to Sign Permit Requirements: Sign permits shall not be required
for the signs listed as exempt in this subsection. Exempt signs shall not be
included in the determination of the total allowable number of signs or total
allowable sign area for a site or project. However, exempt signs shall be
required to adhere to the regulations established for each sign type. Signs
erected without complying with the applicable regulations are considered
illegal and shall be removed in compliance with Section
9-1F-19 (Illegal Signs). An exempt sign may still require a Building Permit,
subject to Tile 7 of the Municipal Code (Building Regulations).
E.   Routine maintenance: Painting, repainting, or cleaning of a sign shall not
be considered erecting or altering a sign and therefore shall not require a
sign permit, unless structural changes are made.
F.   Expiration and Extension of Sign Permit:
   1.   An approved sign permit shall expire twelve (12) months from the date
of approval unless the sign has been installed, or a different expiration date
is stipulated at the time of approval. Before the expiration of a sign permit,
the applicant may apply to the director for an extension of up to an additional
twelve (12) months from the original date of expiration. In response to an
extension request, the director may make minor modifications, or deny further
extensions.
   2.   The expiration date of the sign permit shall be automatically extended
to concur with the expiration date of the companion building permit or other
applicable permits.
G.   Revisions to Sign Permit: The director may approve minor changes to an
approved sign permit if the intent of the original approval is not affected.
Revisions that would substantially deviate from the original approval shall
require the approval of a new/revised sign permit by the director.
H.   Revocation of Sign Permit:
   1.   The director may, in writing, suspend or revoke a sign permit if the
permit was issued on the basis of a material omission or misstatement of fact,
or in violation of any ordinance or any of the provisions of this article, or
if the permitted sign violates any applicable law.
   2.   Within fifteen (15) days after issuance of the written notice, any sign
authorized by the revoked sign permit shall be removed.
   3.   Failure to remove the sign display within the fifteen (15)-day period
shall be a violation of this Zoning Code, and the sign shall be deemed a public
nuisance.
I.   Appeals: The applicant may appeal the denial of a sign permit application
in compliance with section
9-1C-5-G (Appeals). (Ord. 19-1036; amd. Ord. 20-1047)
9-1F-14: COMPREHENSIVE SIGN PROGRAM:
A.   Purpose: The purpose of a comprehensive sign program is to integrate all a
project's signs with the overall site and structure design into a unified
architectural statement. A comprehensive sign program provides a means for the
flexible application of sign regulations for projects that require multiple
signs. Such an approach provides latitude in the design and display of multiple
signs and to achieve, not circumvent, the purpose of this article. A
comprehensive sign program shall not be used to override the prohibition of new
off-site commercial signs specified in Section
9-1F-4-H (Off-Site Commercial Sign Regulation).
B.   When Required: The approval of a comprehensive sign program shall be
required whenever any of the following circumstances exist.
   1.   Whenever three (3) or more separate tenant spaces are present on the
same parcel or on multiple parcels that are part of a unified shopping center
or similar business center;
   2.   Whenever a combination of residential and commercial uses are proposed
for the same site or development proposal;
   3.   Whenever five (5) or more non-exempt signs are proposed for a single-
tenant development;
   4.   Whenever signs are proposed to be located on or above the second story
on a multi-story structure, or thirty feet (30') in height;
   5.   Whenever a project or parcel has more than three hundred (300) linear
feet of frontage on a public street;
   6.   Whenever an existing multi-tenant development of three (3) or more
tenants is being remodeled or rehabilitated to the extent that the value of the
work will be greater than twenty percent (20%) of the replacement cost of the
structure(s), as determined by the director;
   7.   A comprehensive sign program for a theater or cinema use may authorize
signs that deviate from the standards of this article. The comprehensive sign
program may allow marquee signs, brighter lights, and design features not
otherwise authorized by this article if the sign(s) is/are generally consistent
with the purposes of this article. Approval shall not be based on message
content;
   8.   Alteration, modification, or relocation of an iconic sign;
   9.   Whenever the director determines that a comprehensive sign program is
needed because of special project characteristics (e.g., the size of proposed
signs, limited site visibility, a business within another business, the
location of the site relative to major transportation routes, etc.).
C.   Review Authority: The director is the review authority for a comprehensive
sign program.
D.   Application Requirements: A sign permit application for a comprehensive
sign program shall include all the information and materials required by the
director, and the filing fee set by the city's Planning Division Fee Schedule.
The following minimum information shall be included with the application:
   1.   Sign details indicating sign area, dimensions, colors, materials,
letter style, proposed letter height, and method of illumination.
   2.   Site plan indicating the location of all existing and proposed signs.
   3.   Building elevation(s) with sign location depicted and dimensioned.
E.   Standards: A comprehensive sign program shall comply with the following
standards:
   1.   The proposed sign program shall comply with the purpose and intent of
this article, any adopted sign design guidelines, and the overall purpose and
intent of this section.
   2.   The proposed signs shall enhance the overall development, be in harmony
with, and relate visually to other signs included in the comprehensive sign
program, to the structures and developments they identify, and to surrounding
development when applicable.
   3.   The sign program shall include all signs, including permanent,
temporary, and exempt signs.
   4.   The sign program shall accommodate future revisions that may be
required because of changes in use or tenants.
   5.   The sign program shall comply with the standards of this article,
except that deviations are allowed with regard to sign area, total number,
location, and height of signs to the extent that the comprehensive sign program
will enhance the overall development and will more fully accomplish the
purposes and intent of this article.
   6.   Approval of a comprehensive sign program shall not authorize the use of
signs listed as prohibited by this article.
   7.   Review and approval of a comprehensive sign program shall not consider
the signs' proposed message content.
   8.   The director may approve a deviation in sign standards in compliance
with Article 9-1C. (Ord. 19-1036)
9-1F-15: SIGN MAINTENANCE:
A.   Maintenance Required: All signs shall always be maintained in a safe,
presentable, and structurally sound condition, including the replacement of
defective parts, painting, repainting, cleaning, and other maintenance
activities. Failure to comply with these requirements may cause the sign to be
declared a public nuisance, which shall be removed in compliance with this
section.
B.   Administrative Procedures for Improperly Maintained Signs: Improperly
maintained signs shall be subject to the following administrative procedures:
   1.   Notice of violation shall be sent by first class United States mail to
the last known address of the sign owner and property owner, informing the
owner(s) of the time in which removal of the sign or repair of condition(s)
shall be accomplished.
   2.   If the sign owner(s) fail(s) to remove or repair the improperly
maintained sign, the city shall send final notice by a method that provides
proof of delivery, notifying the owner(s) that failure to remove or repair the
sign within thirty (30) days shall result in the issuance of a citation as set
forth in the Municipal Code.
   3.   If the sign owner(s) do(es) not remove or repair the improperly
maintained sign within the thirty (30)-day period, the city may apply the
remedies identified in Municipal Code Chapters 1-4 (Administrative Citations)
and 4-2 (Public Nuisances), in addition to any remedies otherwise available at
law or in equity.
C.   Hazardous Signs: If a sign is damaged or not properly maintained to a
degree that it poses a physical danger to persons or property, the following
provisions shall apply:
   1.   Hazardous Signs Identified: A hazardous sign is a sign that poses a
danger to the public or that could create a potential hazard. Hazardous signs
are declared to be a public nuisance in compliance with Municipal Code Chapter
4-2 (Public Nuisances). The determination that a sign has become hazardous or
unsafe shall consider only the physical condition and characteristics of the
sign, and shall not consider the sign's message.
   2.   Removal of Hazardous Signs: Upon discovering a hazardous condition, the
city may cause the immediate removal of a sign(s) that is a danger to the
public due to unsafe conditions. No hearing shall be required before the
removal of any hazardous sign. The city is not required to give notice of
intent to remove the sign(s) prior to removal, but shall endeavor to do so and
shall inform the property, business, and sign owner(s) that the hazardous sign
has been removed within three (3) days following removal, by a method that
provides proof of delivery. See Municipal Code Title 4, Chapter 2 (Nuisances).
(Ord. 19-1036)
9-1F-16: ENFORCEMENT:
The city may withhold the issuance of Business Licenses, Building Permits,
Grading Permits, Certificates of Occupancy, other land use entitlements and may
issue stop work orders for a development project failing to comply with the
provisions of this article. If the property owner and/or tenant is found to be
in violation of the requirements of this article, the property owner and/or
tenant may be subject to enforcement procedures in compliance with Municipal
Code Title 4 (Law Enforcement). (Ord. 19-1036)
9-1F-17: NONCONFORMING SIGNS:
A.   Continuance of Nonconforming Signs: Except as provided in section
9-1F-17-B (Repair and Maintenance) and section
9-1F-17-C (Change of Business Type or Ownership), below, a legal nonconforming
sign may be continued and shall be maintained in good condition as required by
Section
9-1F-15 (Sign Maintenance), but it shall not be:
   1.   Structurally changed to another nonconforming sign, although its copy
and pictorial content may be changed.
   2.   Structurally altered to prolong the life of the sign, except to meet
safety requirements.
   3.   Expanded or altered in any manner that increases the degree of
nonconformity.
B.   Repair and Maintenance: Nonconforming signs shall only be painted and
repaired in place and shall not be removed from their existing location unless
removal of the sign for painting or repair is part of the sign's customary
maintenance and repair, subject to the review and confirmation by the director.
C.   Change of Business Type or Ownership: Upon a change of ownership, the new
owner of a nonconforming sign may change the name(s) on the sign so long as
there is no change in the structure or configuration of the sign.
D.   Removal of Nonconforming Signs:
   1.   The nonconforming sign shall be removed if it is more than fifty
percent (50%) destroyed, and the destruction is other than facial copy
replacement. A nonconforming sign shall be deemed to be more than fifty percent
(50%) destroyed if the estimated cost of reconstruction and repair exceeds
fifty percent (50%) of the replacement value, immediately before the
destruction of the sign, as determined by the building official.
   2.   The nonconforming sign shall be removed if the sign is remodeled,
unless the sign is remodeled to comply with the provisions of this article.
   3.   Nonconforming signs shall be removed when a property is further
developed in compliance with this zoning code.
   4.   Nonconforming signs shall be removed before the installation of new
signs advertising the same business or any new business on the site.
   5.   Existing legal off-site signs (i.e., billboards) shall be removed when
the property on which the sign is located is further developed.
   6.   The nonconforming sign shall be removed if the sign is located on a
structure that is to be enlarged or expanded, if the nonconforming sign is
affected by the construction, enlargement, remodel, or expansion. An
enlargement, remodel, or expansion of the portion of the structure upon which
the nonconforming sign is located or that is more than fifty percent (50%) of
the structure area shall be deemed to affect the nonconforming sign.
   7.   The nonconforming sign shall be removed if the sign is temporary. (Ord.
19-1036)
9-1F-18:    ABANDONED SIGNS:
A.   Determination of Abandonment: Conforming and nonconforming signs shall be
presumed abandoned under any of the following circumstances:
   1.   The sign identifies or advertises a business that has ceased for more
than ninety (90) days;
   2.   The sign is located upon a structure that has been abandoned by its
owner for more than ninety (90) days;
   3.   The sign pertains to a bona fide business, lessor, service, owner, or
product that has been unavailable upon the site for more than ninety (90) days;
   4.   The sign has not been removed after the occurrence of a temporary event
or activity with an approved temporary use permit in compliance with Municipal
Code Title 9 (Zoning Regulations); or
   5.   The sign is a hazardous sign that has been removed by the city and has
not been recovered by the owner within the time period specified in Section
9-1F-15 (Sign Maintenance).
B.   Removal of Abandoned Signs:
   1.   An abandoned sign or an abandoned nonconforming sign shall be
immediately removed by the owner or lessee of the premises upon which the sign
is located or by a person, organization, or other entity that directly or
indirectly receives a benefit from the information contained on the sign.
   2.   A sign frame or structure that has been abandoned shall be immediately
removed along with all mounting hardware and the building face repaired and
repainted by the owner or lessee of the premises upon which the sign frame or
structure is located, subject to the approval of the director.
C.   Abandoned Signs for Closed Businesses:
   1.   Abandoned signs shall be promptly removed by the property owner or
person responsible for its installation and/or maintenance. The city may
declare such signs to be a public nuisance and abate it in compliance with the
Business and Professions Code Sections 5499.2 et seq., or city law on abatement
of nuisances.
   2.   Abandoned cabinet signs may be temporarily retained due to new
ownership of the property or by a new tenant, only if the property owner or
tenant replaces the cabinet sign face with a clear, plain sign face or covers
the sign in a manner acceptable to the director. (Ord. 19-1036)
9-1F-19: ILLEGAL SIGNS:
A.   Strict Liability: Violations of this article shall be treated as a strict
liability offense regardless of intent.
B.   Illegal Signs Identified: The following signs are illegal, declared to be
a public nuisance, and shall be subject to the enforcement procedures, as well
as the procedures and remedies in Municipal Code Title 4 (Law Enforcement).
   1.   A sign erected, placed, posted, constructed, reconstructed, altered,
maintained, or moved after the effective date of this article that does not
comply with all applicable provisions of this article, including the
requirements for a sign permit.
   2.   A sign erected, placed, posted, constructed, reconstructed, altered,
maintained, or moved before the effective date of this article or before
annexation to the city that failed to comply with all regulations in effect at
the time the sign was erected, placed, posted, constructed, reconstructed,
altered, maintained, or moved.
   3.   A nonconforming sign that is required to be removed or altered by
section
9-1F-17-D (Removal of nonconforming signs) and that is not removed or altered
in compliance with section
9-1F-17-D.
   4.   Signs with flashing elements that are not deactivated in compliance
with section
9-1F-17 (Nonconforming signs).
   5.   An abandoned nonconforming sign.
   6.   An abandoned sign. (Ord. 19-1036)
ARTICLE G. R-1, R-2, R-3 ZONE DISTRICTS
SECTION:
Part 1. R-1 Zone District
9-1G-10: R-1 Zone District Designation
9-1G-11: R-1 Zone District Land Use And Permit Requirements
9-1G-12: R-1 Zone District Residential Development Standards
9-1G-13: R-1 Zone District Residential Building Design And Architectural
Standards
9-1G-14: R-1 Zone District Residential Design Criteria
9-1G-15: R-1 Zone District Incentives For FAR Bonus
Part 2. R-2 Zone District
9-1G-20: R-2 Zone District Designation
9-1G-21: R-2 Zone District Land Use And Permit Requirements
9-1G-22: R-2 Zone District Residential Development Standards
9-1G-23: R-2 Zone District Residential Building Design And Architectural
Standards
9-1G-24: R-2 Zone District Residential Design Criteria
Part 3. R-3 Zone District
9-1G-30: R-3 Zone District Designation
9-1G-31: R-3 Zone District Land Use And Permit Requirements
9-1G-32: R-3 Zone District Residential Development Standards
9-1G-33: R-3 Zone District Incentives
9-1G-34: R-3 Zone District Residential Building Design And Architectural
Standards
9-1G-35: Residential Design Criteria
PART 1. R-1 ZONE DISTRICT
9-1G-10: R-1 ZONE DISTRICT DESIGNATION:
The R-1 district primarily provides for single-family residential at a low
density of up to six (6) dwelling units per acre, representing many of the
existing residential neighborhoods in the city. The R-1 district is applied to
parcels to accommodate existing residential units on land with a predominantly
conventional suburban development pattern and traditional single-family
detached residential neighborhoods. The district generally corresponds to the
low-density residential land use designation on the 2050 General Plan land use
map. (Ord. 19-1036)
9-1G-11: R-1 ZONE DISTRICT LAND USE AND PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
A.   Permit Requirements:
Table 9-1G-1 lists the permit requirements and code references for each land
use in
Table 9-1G-2.
 
Table 9-1G-1
Permit Requirement Labels for
Table 9-1G-2
Label Permit Requirement              Code Section
Y     Permitted Use                    
A     Accessory to Permitted Use Only  
C     Conditional Use Permit           
N     Not Permitted                    
 
B.   Specific Land Uses: Where the last column in
Table 9-1G-2 includes an additional code reference, the requirements of the
referenced section also apply to the use.
 
Table 9-1G-2
Land Uses and Permit Requirements for Residential Zone Districts
Land Uses or Activities                                    R-1 Notes/Reference
Accessory buildings or structures                          A*  9-1G-12 -F
Accessory dwelling units                                   A   9-1T-13
Animal keeping                                             A   9-1T-17
Assembly uses: religious facilities, lodges, clubs,        C
cultural centers, etc.
Child care home                                            A
Day care center                                            C
Educational institutions                                   C
Family daycare homes                                       A
Garage sales                                               T   9-1C-6 .F
Home occupations                                           A   9-1T-16
Junior accessory dwelling units                            Y   9-1T-13
Off street parking for commercial, manufacturing, or       N
institutional uses
Public parks and playgrounds                               Y
Recreational vehicle parking (open/outdoor parking)        A
Rental of up to one (1) bedroom for a period of more than
one (1) month (prohibited where an ADU or JADU exists) A = A   9-1G-12 -G
Allowed
Schools (public and private)                               C
Short Term Rentals                                         N
Single-family dwellings                                    Y
Storage containers delivered to a home (Pods)              T   9-1C-6 .F
Supportive housing                                         Y
Temporary on-site construction yards and trailers          T   9-1C-6 .F
Temporary uses                                             A
Transitional housing                                       Y
Transfer stations                                          C
Urban dwellings                                            Y   9-1T-21
Urban lot splits                                           Y   9-2-20
Wireless communications facilities                         C   9-1T-11
Yard Sales                                                 A   4-2D
 
* Accessory structures with plumbing require a conditional use permit.
(Ord. 19-1036; amd. Ord. 20-1040U; Ord. 20-1047; Ord. 20-1048; Ord. 21-1059;
Ord. 22-1060)
9-1G-12: R-1 ZONE DISTRICT RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
Development standards for the R-1 District are shown in
Table 9-1G-3 and described below.
 
Table 9-1G-3
Temple City R-1 Development Standards
                                                                         Interior Corner  Notes
                                                                         Lot      Lot
Lot Area (square feet)
                                                                                          Newly
   Lot                                                                7,200    7,200   created
                                                                                          lot.
Lot Width (feet)
                                                                         Lots     Lots
                                                                         120' or  120' or
                                                                         more in  more in
                                                                         width:   width:  Does not
                                                                         60-foot  60-foot apply to
                                                                         minimum  minimum the pole
   Lot                                                                Lots     Lots    of a flag
                                                                         less     less    lot
                                                                         than     than    parcel.
                                                                         120' in  120' in
                                                                         width:   width:
                                                                         50-foot  50-foot
                                                                         minimum  minimum
                                                                                          50 feet at
   Cul-de-sac (min. street/at setback)                                35/50    -       front yard
                                                                                          setback.
                                                                                          Access
   Flag lot                                                           80       -       drive/pole
                                                                                          width of
                                                                                          20 feet.
Setbacks
Front (feet)
                                                                                          Front
                                                                                          setback
                                                                                          must be
                                                                                          consistent
   1st Floor (min.)                                                   20       20      with the
                                                                                          average
                                                                                          setback of
                                                                                          the two
                                                                                          adjacent
                                                                                          houses.
                                                                                          Front
                                                                                          setback
                                                                                          must be
                                                                                          consistent
   2nd Floor (min.)                                                   20       20      with the
                                                                                          average
                                                                                          setback of
                                                                                          the two
                                                                                          adjacent
                                                                                          houses.
Side (feet)
                                                                                          10 feet or
                                                                                          10% of the
                                                                                          lot width
                                                                                          on corner
                                                                                          lots
   1st Floor (min. / % lot width)                                     5/10%    10/10%  adjacent
                                                                                          to a
                                                                                          street
                                                                                          (not
                                                                                          corner
                                                                                          interior
                                                                                          side).
                                                                                          10 feet on
                                                                                          corner
                                                                                          lots
                                                                                          adjacent
                                                                                          to a
   2nd Floor (min. / total)                                           5/15     10/20   street or
                                                                                          20 feet
                                                                                          total (not
                                                                                          corner
                                                                                          interior
                                                                                          side).
Rear (feet)
   1st Floor (min.)                                                   15       15       
   2nd Floor (min.)                                                   20       20       
Maximum Building Height (feet)
                                                                                          The
                                                                                          maximum
                                                                                          top plate
                                                                                          height for
   < 75-foot lot width (principal structure)                          28       28      a two-
                                                                                          story,
                                                                                          single-
                                                                                          family
                                                                                          house is
                                                                                          23 feet.
   > 75-foot lot width (principal structure)                          32       32       
   Flag Lots, Front Lots, Tiered Lots, and Lots with less than 35' of                  Single
frontage on a public street. (ft.)                                       18       -       story
                                                                                          only.
   Accessory Building                                                 15       15       
Floor Area Ratio
   < 18-ft. Building Height                                           -        -        
   > 18-ft. Building Height                                           0.35     0.35     
   Maximum Floor Area2
                                                                                          Additional
                                                                                          700 square
                                                                                          feet can
      Dwelling (sq. ft.)                                           3,300    3,300   be granted
                                                                                          if
                                                                                          incentives
                                                                                          are met.
                                                                                          Of first
      Dwelling, second floor (percent)                             0.75     -       floor and
                                                                                          garages.
      2-car garage (sq. ft.)                                       400      400      
      3-car garage (sq. ft.)                                       600      600      
      Plus FAR incentives                                          -        -       See 9-1G-
                                                                                          14.
                                                                                  Lots
                                                                         Lots 80' 80' or
                                                                         or less  less in
                                                                         in depth depth = Does not
                                                                         = .4     .4      apply to
      Front-of-the-Lot Floor Area Ratio                            Lots     Lots    flag lots
                                                                         more     more    or tiered
                                                                         than 80' than    lots.
                                                                         in depth 80' in
                                                                         = .25    depth =
                                                                                  .25
Maximum Lot Coverage
                                                                                          Maximum
                                                                                          lot
                                                                                          coverage
                                                                                          for all
   All lots                                                                            lots is
                                                                                          set by
                                                                                          (.275 x
                                                                                          lot area)
                                                                                          +1,125
Minimum Permeable Surface
   < 7,200 sq. ft. Parcel                                             0.25     0.25     
   7,200-9,999 sq. ft. Parcel                                         0.35     0.35     
   > 10,000 sq. ft. Parcel                                            0.40     0.40     
Minimum Dwelling Width (feet)                                            25       25       
Minimum Main Dwelling Size (square feet)
   One Bedroom                                                        800      800      
   Two Bedrooms                                                       1,000    1,000    
   Three Bedrooms                                                     1,200    1,200    
   More Than Three Bedrooms                                           +150 each additional
                                                                         bedroom
Distance Between Buildings (feet)
                                                                                          Measured
   Distance between habitable structures                              15       15      from wall
                                                                                          to wall
                                                                                          Measured
   Distance between all other buildings/structures                    10       10      from eave
                                                                                          to eave
Accessory Building Maximum Size (square feet)1
   < 1280 sq. ft. main building                                       640      640      
                                                                                          Smaller of
                                                                                          50% of
                                                                         50%/     50%/    floor main
   > 1280 sq. ft. main building                                       1,400    1,400   building
                                                                                          area; max.
                                                                                          of 1,400
                                                                                          sq. ft.
 
1See Municipal Code Section
9-1T-10 for Accessory Dwelling Unit Requirements.
2Floor area regulations only apply to two-story houses (see Section
9-1G-12-E.1). Front-of-the-Lot FAR requirements apply to single-story and two-
story structures.
A.   Lot Requirements: All newly created lots must have a minimum area of seven
thousand two hundred (7,200) square feet.
   1.   Lot Splits:
      a.   When the original lot proposed for subdivision is less than one
hundred twenty feet (120') in width, the resulting lots must have a minimum
dimension of fifty feet (50').
      b.   When the original lot proposed for subdivision is one hundred twenty
feet (120') or more in width, the resulting lots must have a minimum dimension
of sixty feet (60').
   2.   Flag Lot Subdivisions:
      a.   Each such subdivision must be limited to the creation of no more
than one (1) flag lot.
      b.   The original existing lot to be subdivided must have a street
frontage of at least eighty feet (80') and a minimum depth of two hundred ten
feet (210').
      c.   The front lot must have a minimum width of sixty feet (60').
      d.   The pole portion of the flag lot must have a minimum width of twenty
feet (20') and the flag portion must have a minimum width of eighty feet (80').
No more than fifteen feet (15') of the pole may consist of hardscape. The
abutting landscape strip or strips must be irrigated and landscaped. The
driveway must contain decorative brickwork, stamped concrete and/or landscaped
pavers, subject to review and approval of the granting body. No parking or
storage is permitted in the twenty-foot (20') wide pole.
   3.   Cul-de-Sac: Lots proposed along a private or public cul-de-sac must
have a minimum front property line of thirty-five feet (35') and must be a
minimum of fifty feet (50') wide at the front yard setback.
   4.   Proposed irregularly shaped parcels must demonstrate adequate building
area meeting all setback and coverage requirements.
B.   Yard Setbacks:
   1.   Front Yard Setbacks: The front yard setback must be the average of the
two (2) adjacent houses. The front yard setback may never be less than twenty
feet (20') and at no time will the required setback be more than thirty feet
(30'). The planning manager may determine if the entire block face should be
used to determine the required front yard setback when there are
irregularities, such as reverse corner lots, or houses with unusually large
setbacks.
   2.   Side Yard Setbacks:
      a.   Interior lots must maintain a side yard adjacent to each side lot
line of not less than five feet (5') for the first-story portion of a building
or ten percent (10%) of the lot width, whichever is greater. The second-story
setback on either side must never be less than five feet (5') and must not
equal less than fifteen feet (15') when combined.
      b.   On a corner lot, the side yard setback next to another lot must be
five feet (5') for the first-story portion of a building or ten percent (10%)
of the lot width, whichever is greater. The second-story setback must not be
less than five feet (5') on each side and must not equal less than twenty feet
(20') when combined.
      c.   On the street side, the required side yard of a corner lot must be a
minimum of ten feet (10').
   3.   Rear Yard Setbacks: The ground floor of the main structure must
maintain a fifteen-foot (15') rear yard setback. The second floor of the main
structure must maintain a twenty-foot (20') rear yard setback.
C.   Placement of Buildings:
   1.   Structures must be a minimum of ten feet (10') away from each other,
with no obstructions from the ground to the sky.
   2.   No portion of any principal dwelling may be located in any required
yard area, except as allowed in Section
9-1N-6 (Encroachments).
D.   Minimum Building Width:
   1.   The main residential dwelling unit must have a width of twenty- five
feet (25'). Attached garages are not counted in this measurement.
   2.   An accessory dwelling unit converted from a garage may be less than
twenty-five feet (25').
E.   Maximum Floor Area Ratio:
   1.   Any two (2)-story, single-family dwelling or single-story dwelling with
a height of more than eighteen feet (18') must not exceed a floor area ratio
(FAR) of 0.35, to a maximum allowable floor area of three thousand three
hundred (3,300) square feet plus up to four hundred (400) net square feet for
an attached two (2)-car garage or up to six hundred (600) net square feet for
an attached three (3)-car garage. However, the maximum square footage may be
increased by incentive bonuses, as referenced in
Table 9-1G-5.
   2.   The second story of any two (2)-story, single-family dwelling must not
exceed seventy-five percent (75%) of the total floor area of the first floor,
including attached garages. The total floor area must not exceed the
calculations in 9-1G-12-E.1.
   3.   Front-of-the-Lot FAR:
      a.   For lots eighty feet (80') or less in depth, the maximum FAR in the
front forty feet (40') must not exceed .4.
      b.   For lots greater than eighty feet (80') in depth, the maximum FAR in
the front forty feet (40') must not exceed .25.
      c.   Flag lots and tiered lots are exempt from front-of-the-lot FAR
requirements.
      d.   For purposes of calculating front-of-the-lot FAR, the following
areas are included in FAR:
      (1)   Areas where the second floor cantilevers out over the first floor;
and
      (2)   Porches where the ceiling height is greater than twelve feet (12')
are included as FAR.
F.   Accessory Uses And Structures:
   1.   Accessory uses and structures, including accessory dwelling units,
junior accessory dwelling units, pool houses, workshops, sheds, and the like,
but not including required garages, are limited to one (1) per lot and must be
located in the rear fifty percent (50%) of the lot.
   2.   On lots improved with a main dwelling that is greater than one thousand
two hundred eighty (1,280) square feet, the maximum area for accessory
structures on a lot (excluding required parking) must not exceed one thousand
four hundred (1,400) square feet or fifty percent (50%) of the living area of
the main dwelling, whichever is smaller.
   3.   On lots improved with a main dwelling that is less than one thousand
two hundred eighty (1,280) square feet, the maximum area for all accessory
structures on a lot (excluding required parking) must not exceed six hundred
forty (640) square feet.
   4.   If either an alley or a utility easement exists along the rear of the
lot, not less than ten feet (10') of the rear lot line must be maintained free
and clear of buildings or structures, except for a fence with a gate to provide
access to the alley or utility easement.
   5.   If a utility pole is located on the easement, the required opening in
the fence or wall must be located to provide immediate access to the pole.
   6.   Accessory structures are not permitted in the front yard.
   7.   Table 9-1G-3.2 Setbacks for R-21 Accessory Structures:
 
Table 9-1G-3.2
Setbacks for R-1 Accessory Structures
                        Side Yard Setback Street Side Yard Setback Rear Setback
ADUs                    See Section
                        9-1T-13
Garages*                5 feet            20 feet                  5 feet
Swimming pools and spas 5 feet            10 feet                  5 feet
Other accessory         5 feet            10 feet                  5 feet
structures
 
*Does not apply to garages when the garage door is perpendicular to the street.
   8.   Portable shade structures are prohibited in the front yard and in the
corner side yard.
   9.   When feasible, accessory uses and detached accessory structures, must
be located within the rear fifty percent (50%) of a property. This does not
apply to pergolas, patios, pools, spas, and required garages and carports.
G.   Vehicle Parking And Driveways:
   1.   Each lot or parcel of land in zone R-1 must have-on the same lot or
parcel of land-a minimum of two (2) off-street parking spaces per main dwelling
unit. When a garage door is parallel to the street and at the front of the
property, the garage door must be ten feet (10') behind the face of the
building (not including porches).
   2.   Each required parking space in a garage must be no less than ten feet
(10') wide and twenty feet (20') long. Tandem parking can be used for the third
and additional parking spaces.
   3.   Vehicles must not park in the front or side yard areas, except on paved
driveways.
   4.   Driveways are limited to a maximum paved width of sixteen feet (16')
for houses with garage doors parallel to the street, with two feet (2') clear
of obstructions on either side.
   5.   Driveways are limited to a maximum paved width of twelve feet (12') for
houses with garage doors perpendicular to the street.
   6.   Except in the case of ADUs and JADUs, an additional parking space must
be provided for each room that is rented on a single-family house. The parking
may be uncovered, such as on the driveway, but must not block the parking
spaces for the main dwelling.
   7.   The required garage for the main dwelling cannot be attached to a
detached accessory structure used as habitable space.
H.   Landscape and Hardscape Requirements:
   1.   Hardscape (including walkways and driveways made of asphalt, concrete,
pavers, or decomposed granite) must not exceed forty five percent (45%) of the
front yard.
   2.   A combination of trees, shrubs, and ground cover must be incorporated
into landscaping plans for new houses.
      a.   One (1), thirty-six-inch (36") box tree per two thousand five
hundred (2,500) square feet of lot area must be provided. Fractions are rounded
up from .5 to the nearest whole number. Existing trees onsite that are of
equivalent size may be counted towards this requirement. All other trees should
be twenty-four-inch (24") boxes.
      b.   Shrubs must be five (5)-gallons.
      c.   Landscape plans must be prepared by a licensed landscaped architect.
   3.   All landscaped areas and materials must be regularly and properly
maintained.
   4.   Mulch or stone-type materials should be placed between plants as ground
cover or backdrop, not as a replacement for live vegetation. Plants should be
spaced so that at maturity, the plants eventually cover most, if not all, of
the mulch or stone material.
   5.   The front yard must include a minimum of twenty two percent (22%) live
vegetation.
   6.   See section
9-1N-11 (Artificial Turf) for regulations related to artificial turf, including
maximum coverage.
   7.   The use of mounding grasses such as Festuca californica, Festuca rubra,
and Carex pansa are preferred.
   8.   For new construction, bare dirt is not permitted within the front yard
or visible street side yard. All bare dirt areas must be finished with a
minimum three-inch (3")-thick layer of mulch, organic bark, or earth-tone-
colored rubber bark.
   9.   Rocks, stones, and pebbles are not to be used near public sidewalks or
streets because they are a slipping hazard.
   10.   Dry stream beds, areas of decomposed granite, or stone must not
account for more than twenty percent (20%) of the front yard, unless needed to
meet low impact development (LID) requirements.
   11.   No more than twelve feet (12') of the vehicular access to the garage
may consist of hardscape; the remaining four feet (4') on either side must
consist of landscaping.
I.   Walls and Fences: Design requirements for walls and fences are found in
Article N, Site Planning and General Design Standards.
J.   Special Requirements: New dwellings constructed within five hundred feet
(500') of an arterial street or a railway must provide a mechanical ventilation
system designed to attain enhanced air filtration with the use of air filters
that have a filtration efficiency equivalent to a minimum efficiency reporting
value (MERV) of eleven (11) or higher as determined by testing methods
established by the American Society Of Heating, Refrigerating And Air-
Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE) standard 52.2, as periodically amended. All
such ventilation system equipment and air filters must be installed, operated,
maintained and replaced in a manner consistent with applicable building code
requirements and with the manufacturer's specifications and recommendations.
Alternative air pollution mitigation measures (e.g., setbacks, landscaped
buffers, etc.) may be utilized where feasible if they can be shown to have a
mitigating effect that is equal to or greater than the enhanced air filtration
measures specified herein.
K.   Grading and Drainage for New Construction:
   1.   Where existing drainage flows from adjacent sites, the subject site
must continue to accept cross lot drainage and must not be designed in such a
way as to drain toward adjacent sites. Where existing drainage flows to
adjacent sites, the subject site must modified so that drainage no longer
continues to flow to adjacent sites. The subject site must not create any
barriers that prohibit existing drainage flows from adjacent sites. In cases
where compliance with this requirement is deemed not feasible by the city, the
director may approve modifications to encourage as much onsite infiltration and
detention as feasible.
   2.   If the proposed finished grade will not alter existing cross lot
drainage patterns, the difference between the grade of the subject site and
adjacent sites must be within eight inches (8"). If the proposed finished grade
will alter existing cross lot drainage patterns, the applicant must demonstrate
how the subject property will address existing cross lot drainage patterns.
L.   Open Space: There shall be a minimum of five hundred (500) square feet of
open space per dwelling unit. All dwelling units shall have and maintain
suitable access to the open space. A minimum of seventy-five percent (75%) of
the required open space must be landscaped. Any pavement in the open space must
be permeable and must not function as a driveway extension. Twenty-five percent
(25%) of the required open space may be covered with a cabana or roof cover.
(Ord. 19-1036; amd. Ord. 20-1040U; Ord. 20-1047; Ord. 22-1060; Ord. 23-1069;
Ord. 23-1070)
9-1G-13: R-1 ZONE DISTRICT RESIDENTIAL BUILDING DESIGN AND ARCHITECTURAL
STANDARDS:
The site design and architectural standards set forth in this chapter apply to
all new residential structures, additions to residential structures, and
accessory structures (including garages) in the R-1 District.
A.   Building Facades:
   1.   For any new residential structure or addition, all sides of the
building(s) visible from the street or other public areas and where the space
between two (2) houses or structures is greater than twenty feet (20') should
be fully articulated and have elements that contribute to visual interest and
neighborhood character. This includes variation in massing, wall planes, and
roof forms as well as surface articulation such as window and door treatments
and windows.
   2.   The front entrance of a residential structure must be recessed a
minimum of five feet (5') from the front wall of the house. The front recessed
entry or porch area must be covered.
   3.   No linear wall of a second story may extend more than twenty-four feet
(24') without architectural articulation or an offset of at least two feet (2')
for not less than eight feet (8').
   4.   Balconies are only allowed along the front elevation or corner side
elevation of a dwelling facing a public street.
   5.   Single-family dwellings must have exterior walls of brick, wood,
stucco, metal, concrete, or other similar material. Polished or unfinished
metal siding is prohibited.
   6.   Garages and garage doors must be designed to minimize their appearance.
This may include articulating with panels and/or windows on large planes, using
two (2) single-car garage doors instead of one double-car garage door, and
using articulation of the façade and roof.
   7.   All vents, gutters, downspouts, flashing, and electrical panels must be
painted to match the surface to which they are attached, unless concealed or
used as a major design element, in which case the color is to be consistent
with the overall color scheme of the building.
B.   Windows:
   1.   Window type, material, shape, and proportion must complement the
architectural style of the building and enhance the articulation and detailing
of the façade.
   2.   Consistent window and trim styles across elevations should be used.
   3.   Upper and lower windows should align vertically whenever possible.
   4.   Windows on the second floor should not be larger than those on the
ground level.
   5.   Any faux shutters should be proportionate to the adjacent window so as
to create the appearance of a real and functional shutter.
C.   Roof Design and Materials:
   1.   Roofs should be designed as part of the overall massing and
architectural design. Roof slopes, massing, materials, and overhangs should be
designed and scaled appropriately for the desired architectural style.
   2.   Roof materials and colors are important aspects of the overall home
design and should be consistent with the desired architecture.
   3.   Roof design should enhance the visual interest of the building and
break up the massing of the building.
   4.   Every single-family dwelling must have a full roof that meets Temple
City building code requirements. The following types of roof material are not
allowed:
      a.   Glossy or polished surfacing on roofs.
      b.   Corrugated roofs.
      c.   Plastic, PVC, or other types of formed or molded material roofing
(does not include clay or cement tile or fiberglass or composition shingles).
      d.   Painted shingles.
   5.   Chimneys should be exposed as architectural features rather than hidden
within a wall surface.
   6.   Chimney caps should be decorative and conceal fireplace spark
arrestors.
D.   Utilities and Mechanical Equipment:
   1.   Electrical meters, cable boxes, junction boxes, and irrigation
controllers should be designed as an integral part of the building on a rear or
side elevation or otherwise screened from public view.
   2.   Building forms, fences, trellises, and landscaping should be used to
screen aboveground utility transformers, pull boxes, and termination cabinets,
where allowed by utility providers.
   3.   Utilities and mechanical equipment should be screened from the public
right-of-way and, to the extent feasible, either painted to match the wall
color, enclosed in a cabinet that is painted to match the wall color, or
provided with some other type of decorative screen. New roof mounted equipment
is prohibited unless it is replacing an existing piece of equipment.
   4.   New generators, air conditioning units, and condensers are must be
located at least ten feet (10') from neighboring bedroom windows. This
requirement does not apply to replacement units.
   5.   Roof-mounted equipment, including dish antennae, must be screened from
view from public rights-of-way and adjacent properties by materials that are
architecturally compatible with the structure upon which they are mounted. See
Chapter 7-8 of this code for small residential rooftop solar energy systems.
   6.   All utilities for new single family dwelling units must be placed
underground. The Community Development Director may waive this requirement in
instances when undergrounding utilities is physically infeasible, would require
an easement over public or private property, or economically infeasible due to
the location of the power pole on an adjacent site or across a public street.
(Ord. 19-1036; amd. Ord. 22-1060)
9-1G-14: R-1 ZONE DISTRICT RESIDENTIAL DESIGN CRITERIA:
Table 9-1G-4 establishes the criteria for compatibility, intensity, façade
treatments, and other design elements for the R-1 District.
 
Table 9-1G-4
Design Criteria for the Single-Family Residential Zone District
Design Criterion                         R-1 Additional Development Requirement
Compatibility of Architectural Styles and Character
Proposed construction should have
exterior colors, forms, and materials
that are consistent throughout, visually A    
compatible with adjacent structures and
the surrounding neighborhood, and
applied to all facades.
Design of residential structures must be
consistent with local and regional       A    
architectural styles.
Additions to residential structures and
new accessory structures must be
designed and constructed to be similar
to the architectural style and building  A    
form of the structure to which they are
added, including similar or
complementary color, roof design, and
other key architectural features.
Rooflines and roofing materials must be
compatible with the architectural style
of the residential structure. Use of     A    
varying, uncoordinated rooflines and
roofing materials should be avoided.
Building Façades
The main entrance to a home must be
articulated with a roof or porch form.
Entrances of residential structures      A    
should face the primary street, except
on flag lots.
Window and door design and placement
must be consistent with the overall
architectural style of the structure and A    
consistent with all windows/doors
visible from the public right-of-way.
Entrances and windows, not garages,
should be the dominant elements of the   A    
front façade.
Scale and Massing
The size, mass, and scale of new
dwellings must be visually compatible    A    
with adjacent structures and the
surrounding neighborhood.
Balance the massing and design of the
structure(s) so that the ground level is
designed at the human scale, and upper   A    
levels are visually less massive than
the ground level.
Building massing should include
variations in wall planes (projections
and recesses), wall height (vertical     A    
relief), and roof forms and heights to
reduce the perceived scale of the
structure.
Site Design and Residential Structure Orientation
Site and building design must maximize
the amount of runoff directed to
permeable areas and/or maximize
stormwater storage for reuse or
infiltration. Projects must use natural  A    
drainage, detention ponds, infiltration
pits, and bioswales to promote
infiltration and reduce or prevent off-
site runoff.
Grading must be coordinated with the
drainage methods of adjacent properties
and minimize differences in pad heights  A    
between the subject property and
adjacent properties.
Development should incorporate existing
natural features into the overall site   A    
design, including significant trees and
vegetation and drainage areas.
Building placement and orientation must
be carefully designed to enhance the
streetscape, minimize the visibility of  A    
garage doors, retain natural site
features, and complement the existing
character of the neighborhood.
Development should incorporate existing
natural features into the overall site   A    
design, including significant trees and
vegetation and drainage areas.
Decorative paving and/or brickwork, as
well as abutting shrubs or vines, are    A    
encouraged on all driveways to reduce
the visual impact.
Concrete areas of driveways should be
minimized as much as possible. The use
of pervious surfaces, such as pervious   A    
concrete or grasscrete, is encouraged on
driveways.
Site grading should divert flows to
permeable areas and minimize the amount  A    
of stormwater leaving the property.
Maximize permeable areas to allow
percolation of runoff through such means A    
as biofilters, green strips, and swales.
Landscaping                              A    
Preserve existing mature trees where     A    
feasible on the property.
Trees and shrubs should be selected to
minimize root problems and be located    A    
and spaced to allow for mature, long-
term growth.
The landscape and hardscape palettes
should match the architecture of the     A    
structure.
Landscaping must be provided along all
building elevations and along perimeter  A    
walls.
Drought tolerant and native plants
should be used for planting of
residential areas. Drought tolerant      A    
landscaping must include native water
conserving plants.
Succulents should be minimized as a
landscaped material and should be used   A    
only as an accent with appropriate
architectural styles.
A = Applicable
N/A = Not Applicable
 
(Ord. 19-1036)
9-1G-15: R-1 ZONE DISTRICT INCENTIVES FOR FAR BONUS:
By meeting or exceeding development incentives as described in
Table 9-1G-5 below, it may be possible to obtain architectural/design bonus
credits to exceed the maximum permitted square footage. Incentive bonuses must
be considered and awarded as a part of the site plan review process as
described in Article C of this code. Incentives are only provided to new, two
(2)-story, single-family houses.
 
Table 9-1G-5
Incentives for FAR Bonus
Elements            Definition          Minimum             Bonus Incentive1
                                        Requirements
                                        An applicant must
                                        record a covenant
                                        demonstrating the
                                        location of the
                                        mature tree, that
                                        all reasonable
                    Mature trees are    precautions have
Preservation of     defined as trees    been made to
mature trees on     with a diameter-at- preserve the tree,  100 square feet for
residential         breast-height (DBH) trimming of the     each preserved
property            of 19 inches or     tree must be        tree.
                    greater.            overseen by a
                                        licensed arborist,
                                        the tree must not
                                        be topped, and that
                                        the City must
                                        approve of any
                                        removal of the
                                        tree.
                    Defined             Meets
                    architectural       professionally
                    styles include      recognized aspects
                    Craftsman, Spanish  of the chosen
                    Revival, Tudor,     architectural style
Defined             Minimal Traditional as demonstrated in  200 square feet.
Architectural Style with Colonial       A Field Guide to
                    Revival, Ranch,     American House and
                    Split-Level,        The Abrams Guide to
                    Storybook, Prairie, American House
                    and Mid-Century     Styles.
                    Modern.
                    An attached or
                    detached garage     400 square foot FAR
                    means any accessory exemption for
                    building that is    attached two-car
                    used as automobile  garage and 600
Attached or         shelter or storage, square foot FAR
detached garage     with a closable     exemption for
situated behind the access door or      attached three-car  300 square feet.
house and not       doors, on the same  garage; all garage
readily visible     lot as the main     parking is to be
from a street2      building and        located behind the
                    located behind the  home and not
                    main building,      readily visible
                    situated as to not  from a street to
                    be visible from the receive FAR reward.
                    street.
Note:
1. In no case may the cumulative bonus exceed 700 square feet.
2. For corner lots, the garage must be located in the rear of the property. The
garage and the garage door may face the corner side street.
 
(Ord. 19-1036)
PART 2. R-2 ZONE DISTRICT
9-1G-20: R-2 ZONE DISTRICT DESIGNATION:
The R-2 district primarily provides for medium-density, multi-family
residential development up to twelve (12) dwelling units per acre. The R-
2 district is intended for a mix of single-family houses, duplexes, and small
multi-unit buildings (two (2) stories or less). The district generally
corresponds to the Medium-Density Residential land use designation on the 2050
General Plan land use map. (Ord. 19-1036)
9-1G-21: R-2 ZONE DISTRICT LAND USE AND PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
A.   Permit Requirements:
Table 9-1G-6 lists the permit requirements and code references for each land
use in
Table 9-1G-7.
 
Table 9-1G-6
Permit Requirement Labels for
Table 9-1G-7
Label Permit Requirement              Code Section
Y     Permitted Use                    
A     Accessory to Permitted Use Only  
C     Conditional Use Permit           
N     Not Permitted                    
   
B.   Specific Land Uses: Where the last column in
Table 9-1G-7 includes an additional code reference, the requirements of the
referenced section also apply to the use.
 
Table 9-1G-7
Land Uses and Permit Requirements for Residential Zone Districts
Land Uses or Activities                             R-2 Notes/Reference
Accessory buildings or structures                   A   9-1F-10
Accessory dwelling units                            A   9-1T-13
Animal keeping                                      A   9-1T-17  
Assembly uses: religious facilities, lodges, clubs, C
cultural centers, etc.
Childcare home                                      A
Condominiums, two units                             N
Condominiums, three or more units                   Y
Day care center                                     C
Educational institutions                            C
Family daycare homes                                A
Garage sales                                        T   9-1C-6 .F
Home occupations                                    A   9-1F-13
Junior accessory dwelling units                     Y   9-1T-13
Multi-Family Housing                                Y
Public parks and playgrounds                        Y
Schools (public and private)                        C
Short Term Rentals                                  N
Single-family dwellings                             Y
Storage containers delivered to a home (Pods)       T   9-1C-6 .F
Supportive housing                                  Y
Temporary on-site construction yards and trailers   T   9-1C-6 .F
Temporary uses                                      A
Transitional housing                                Y
Wireless communications facilities                  C   9-1T-11
Yard Sales                                          A   4-2D-0
 
(Ord. 19-1036; amd. Ord. 20-1040U; Ord. 20-1048; Ord. 22-1060)
9-1G-22:    R-2 ZONE DISTRICT RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
Development standards for the R-2 District are shown in
Table 9-1G-8 and described below. Where a single, detached house is proposed on
a lot, the development must comply with the standards of zone R-1.
 
Table 9-1G-8
Temple City R-2 Development Standards
                                                       Adjacent Adjacent Not
                                                       to R-1   to R-2/  Adjacent to Notes
                                                                R-3      Residential
Lot Area (square feet)
   Lot size                                         7,200    7,200    7,200       For a newly
                                                                                     created lot.
   Minimum Lot Area Per Dwelling                    3,630    3,630    3,630        
   Maximum density allowed (du/ac)                  12       12       12           
Lot Width (feet)
   Lot                                              50       60       60          For newly
                                                                                     created lots
                                                                                     50 feet at
   Cul-de-sac (min. street/at setback)              35/50    -        -           front yard
                                                                                     setback.
Lot Depth (feet)
   Lot (min.)                                       80       80       80          For newly
                                                                                     created lots.
   Cul-de-sac (min.)                                80       -        -            
Setbacks
Front (feet)
   1st Floor (min.)                                 20       20       20           
   2nd Floor (min.)                                 20       20       20           
Interior Side (feet)
                                                                                     5 feet for
                                                                                     the first
                                                                                     story
1st Floor (min.)                                       5        5        5           adjacent to
                                                                                     R-1 zone. 5
                                                                                     feet adjacent
                                                                                     to R-2/R-
                                                                                     3 zone.
                                                                                     An average
                                                                                     second story
                                                                                     setback of 10
2nd Floor (min.)                                       5/10     5/10     5/10        feet must be
                                                                                     provided, but
                                                                                     not less than
                                                                                     five feet.
Corner Side (feet)
   1st Floor (min.)                                 10       10       10           
                                                                                     An average
                                                                                     second story
   2nd Floor (min.)                                 10       10       10          setback of 10
                                                                                     feet must be
                                                                                     provided.
Rear (feet)
   1st Floor (min.)                                 15       5        5            
                                                                                     Additional 5-
                                                                                     foot setback
   2nd Floor (min.)                                 20       10       10          from ground
                                                                                     floor
                                                                                     required
                                                                                     setback.
Maximum Building Height (feet)
                                                       2        2                    Whichever is
                                                       stories  stories  2 stories   less. Does
   Building                                         or 30    or 30    or 30 feet  not include
                                                       feet in  feet in  in height   fully
                                                       height   height               subterranean
                                                                                     parking.
   Accessory Building                               15       15       15           
Maximum Floor Area Ratio
                                                                                     Of lot size
   Dwelling & Attached Garages                      0.50*    0.50*    0.50*       including
                                                                                     attached
                                                                                     garage.
   Second Floor Size Compared to First Floor Size   75%      75%      75%          
Maximum Lot Coverage
   Dwellings and structures                         50%*     50%*     50%*         
Minimum Permeable Surface
                                                                                     Does not
                                                                                     apply to
   Dwellings or structures                          0.40     0.40     0.40        projects
                                                                                     where all the
                                                                                     parking is
                                                                                     subterranean.
Minimum Gross Floor Area Per Dwelling Unit (square feet)
   One Bedroom                                      750      750      750          
   Two Bedrooms                                     900      900      900          
   Three Bedrooms                                   1,100    1,000    1,000        
   More Than Three Bedrooms                         +150 each additional bedroom   
Distance Between Buildings (feet)
   Distance between primary dwellings and accessory 15       15       15           
structures
   Distance between all other buildings/structures  5        5        5            
Minimum Parking Spaces
                                                                                     Ground level
   Resident Parking (per unit)                      2        2        2           must be in
                                                                                     enclosed
                                                                                     garage.
                                                                                     Fractions of
   Guest Parking (per unit)                         0.2      0.2      0.2         0.5 or more
                                                                                     must be
                                                                                     rounded up.
*   Per Cal. Gov. Code § 65913.11, for projects consisting of 3 to 10 units, lot coverage and FAR
restrictions may not prevent multifamily projects from achieving the following floor area ratios:
the minimum FAR for projects consisting of 3-7 units is 1.0; the minimum FAR for projects between
8-10 units is 1.25.
 
A.   Lot Size and Width Requirements:
   1.   Lot size - For newly created lots, the lot size must be a minimum of
seven thousand two hundred (7,200) square feet.
   2.   Lot width - Each newly created lot must be no less than fifty-feet
(50') wide adjacent to an R-1 zone, and sixty feet (60') wide adjacent to R-2,
R-3, and non-residential zones. If the parcel is located on a cul-de-sac
street, there must be a minimum required lot width of thirty-five feet (35') at
the street and fifty feet (50') at the front yard setback.
   3.   Lot Depth - Each newly created parcel must have a minimum lot depth of
eighty feet (80').
   4.   Cul-De-Sac, Flag Lots, and Tiered Lots - Multi-family uses are not
allowed on cul-de-sacs, flag lots, and tiered lots.
B.   Yard Setbacks:
   1.   Front Yard Setbacks:
      a.   Each lot must maintain a minimum front yard setback of twenty feet
(20') in depth.
      b.   No portion of the building or structure must encroach through a
plane projected from an angle of sixty (60) degrees measured at a height of
twelve feet (12') at the required front setback line.
   2.   Side Yard Setbacks:
      a.   Interior lots must maintain a side yard adjacent to each side lot
line of not less than five feet (5') for the first-story portion of the
building. For the second story a combined average second story setback of ten
feet (10') must be provided, but never less than five feet (5').
      b.   On a corner lot, properties must maintain a side yard adjacent to
the street of not less than ten feet (10') for the first-story portion when
adjacent to any zone. The second-story setback must be a combined average of
ten feet (10').
   3.   Rear Yard Setbacks: When the property to the rear is zoned R-1, the
rear yard setback must not be less than fifteen feet (15'). When the property
to the rear is not zoned R-1, the rear yard setback must not be less than five
feet (5'). When the property to the rear is zoned R-1, the second story rear
setback must be no less than twenty feet (20'). When the property to the rear
is not zoned R-1, second story rear setback must be no less than ten feet
(10').
C.   Placement of Buildings:
   1.   Buildings and structures must be a minimum of five feet (5') away from
each other, except as allowed in Section
9-1N-6 (Encroachments).
   2.   No portion of any principal dwelling may be located in any required
yard area, except as allowed in Section
9-1N-6 (Encroachments).
D.   Maximum Floor Area Ratio:
   1.   No multiple-family residential project may exceed a total floor area
ratio (FAR) of 0.50* (see note in
Table 9-1G-8 regarding SB 478).
   2.   The floor area of the second story must not exceed seventy-five percent
(75%) of the floor area of the first story. In calculating the floor area of
the ground floor, the definition of floor area ratio is used.
E.   Accessory Uses And Structures:
   1.   Accessory uses and structures, including accessory dwelling units, pool
houses, workshops, sheds, and the like, but not including required garages, are
limited to one (1) per lot and must be located in the rear fifty percent (50%)
of the lot.
   2.   An accessory structure of one hundred twenty (120) square feet or less
may be placed within a required side or rear setback, provided there is a
minimum of five feet (5') of setback between the accessory structure and the
property line. The exception is centralized trash enclosures which must be
setback a minimum of two feet (2') from all property lines and a minimum of
fifteen feet (15') from any window.
   3.   If either an alley or a utility easement exists along the rear of the
lot, not less than ten feet (10') of the rear lot line must be maintained free
and clear of buildings or structures, except for a fence with a gate to provide
access to the alley or utility easement.
   4.   Portable shade structures are prohibited in the front yard and in the
corner side yard.
F.   Vehicle Parking and Driveways:
   1.   Each lot or parcel of land in zone R-2 must have-on the same lot or
parcel of land-a minimum of two (2) off-street parking spaces per main dwelling
unit outside of any required setback.
   2.   Garages must be setback ten feet (10') from the main building
elevation.
   3.   Each required parking space in a garage must be no less than ten feet
(10') wide and twenty feet (20') long.
   4.   Tandem parking may only be used for developments with two (2) or more
units.
   5.   Guest parking may not be in the front yard, street side yard, in a
required driveway, or a fire lane. Vehicle parking at grade may not be in the
front or side yard areas, except on paved driveways. "No Parking" signs must be
placed conspicuously at the entrance to and at intervals of not less than fifty
feet (50') along every required driveway.
   6.   For lots with two units, driveways are limited to a maximum paved width
of sixteen feet (16'). No more than twelve feet (12') of the vehicular access
to the garage may consist of hardscape; the remaining four feet (4') on either
side must consist of landscaping. For lots less than eighty feet (80') in width
only one (1) driveway is allowed. The minimum driveway width will be ten feet
(10') for sites with twenty-five (25) or fewer spaces. For sites with more than
twenty-five (25) spaces, the minimum driveway width is ten feet (10') wide for
each one (1)-way driveway or twenty feet (20') for two (2)-way driveways. If
two (2) driveways are required, the driveways must be placed on opposite sides
of the site. Where a lot abuts an alley, parking access must be from the
alleyway and not from the primary street. If a parcel already has a driveway
and a unit is added to the rear of the parcel, parking access for any new units
must be from the alleyway and not from the primary street or existing driveway.
   7.   Walkways must not be placed directly adjacent and parallel to
driveways, so as to expand the maximum size of driveways. Walkways parallel to
driveways must be placed a minimum of three feet (3') from the driveway.
   8.   There must be no more than one (1) driveway per site, unless waived by
the Community Development Director for the project to comply with the Fire or
Building Code or in cases such as through lots, or large developments.
   9.   Entrances to units should be from open space areas, not from driveways.
G.   Landscape and Hardscape Requirements:
   1.   At a minimum, twenty-five percent (25%) of a parcel must be landscaped.
The landscaped area must include a minimum of seventy percent (70%) of live
vegetation. Live vegetation includes lawn areas, shrubs, and flowerbeds and
does not include permeable pavers, turf block, or grasscrete.
   2.   A minimum of forty percent (40%) of a parcel area must be permeable.
   3.   Hardscape in the front yard must not exceed the following:
      a.   On parcels less than fifty feet (50') in width, no more than forty
percent (40%) of the front yard may be hardscape.
      b.   On parcels fifty (50) to eighty (80) feet in width, no more than
thirty-five percent (35%) of the front yard may be hardscape.
      c.   On parcels greater than eighty feet (80') in width, no more than
thirty percent (30%) of the front yard may be hardscape.
   4.   See section
9-1N-11 (Artificial Turf) for regulations related to artificial turf, including
maximum coverage.
   5.   A combination of trees, shrubs, and ground cover must be incorporated
into landscaping plans.
      a.   Three trees must be at least thirty-six (36)-inch box trees. All
other trees should be twenty-four (24)-inch boxes.
      b.   Shrubs must be five (5)-gallons.
      c.   Landscape plans must be prepared by a licensed landscaped architect.
   6.   All landscaped areas and materials must be regularly and properly
maintained.
   7.   Mulch or stone-type materials should be placed between plants as ground
cover or backdrop, not as a replacement for live vegetation. Plants should be
spaced so that at maturity, the plants eventually cover most, if not all, of
the mulch or stone material.
   8.   The use of mounding grasses such as Festuca californica, Festuca rubra,
and Carex pansa are preferred.
   9.   Bare dirt is not permitted within the front yard or visible street side
yard. All bare dirt areas must be finished with a minimum three-inch (3")-thick
layer of mulch, organic bark, or earth-tone-colored rubber bark.
   10.   Rocks, stones, and pebbles are not to be used near public sidewalks or
streets because they are a slipping hazard.
   11.   Dry stream beds and areas of decomposed granite must not account for
more than twenty percent (20%) of the front or rear yard.
   12.   Paved pathways to the front door should be no more than five feet (5')
wide, and all other pathways should be no more than three feet wide.
   13.   Landscaping on Projects with Subterranean Parking:
      a.   Grass, groundcovers, and artificial turf must be at grade. Taller
shrubs, grasses, and other ornamental plants must be at grade or in planters no
less than eighteen inches (18") in height. Raised planters should be minimized
to the extent feasible.
      b.   For main courtyards thirty feet (30') or more in width, at least one
(1) medium tree with a twenty-four-foot (24') canopy or more at maturity must
be planted in the main courtyard. For main courtyards less than thirty feet
(30') in width, at least two (2) small trees with a twelve-foot (12') canopy,
or more at maturity, must be provided. Trees must be planted in a minimum
three-foot (3') deep planter (not exceeding eighteen inches (18") above
finished grade in main courtyards).
      c.   Medium canopy trees must be planted in an area that is a minimum
eighteen feet (18') in width and length or diameter. Small canopy trees must be
planted in an area that is a minimum ten feet (10') in width and length or
diameter.
      d.   A minimum of three feet (3') in depth is required for tree plantings
in courtyards, above the top plate of subterranean parking.
H.   Common Open Space Requirements:
   1.   Common open space is required for developments with more than two (2)
units.
   2.   A minimum of twenty percent (20%) of the lot size must be provided for
common open space.
   3.   Common open space must have a minimum dimension of thirty feet (30')
for lots more than sixty feet (60') in width and twenty feet (20') for lots
less than sixty feet (60') in width.
   4.   Common open space includes recreational-leisure areas, private areas
(no more than one hundred twenty-five (125) square feet in size), or a
combination of both.
   5.   Common recreational areas must be located on the same property as the
residential use it serves and must be available exclusively for the use of all
residents of the development.
   6.   Private useable open space will be contiguous to the residential units
served. Private open space may be delineated by a wall, fence, hedge no taller
than forty-two inches (42") in height.
   7.   All common areas will be developed and professionally maintained in
accordance with approved landscape and irrigation plans.
I.   Main Courtyard Requirements:
   1.   For sites with more than two (2) units and having a width of fifty feet
(50') or more, a main courtyard must be provided on the lot.
   2.   The main courtyard must be no less than ten percent (10%) of the total
lot area and in no case less than six hundred (600) square feet with a minimum
width and length of:
      a.   Fifteen feet (15') measured parallel to the front and side parcel
lines, for lots less than eighty feet (80') in width; and
      b.   Twenty feet (20') measured parallel to the front and side parcel
lines, for lots greater than or equal to eighty feet (80') in width.
   3.   All courtyards must be open to the sky, but may include the following
permitted projections:
      a.   Eaves may project up to three feet (3') into courtyards.
      b.   Exterior, unenclosed building elements such as stoops, balconies and
open stairs may encroach three feet (3') into courtyards.
   4.   If mechanical or utility equipment is placed in courtyards, it must be
screened visually and acoustically and must not encroach into the required
courtyard areas. Mechanical or utility equipment can be in private open space.
   5.   On lots greater than or equal to eighty feet (80') in width, a minimum
of fifty percent (50%) of any courtyard's perimeter must be surrounded by a
building. On lots less than eighty feet (80') in width, any courtyard's
perimeter should be surrounded by buildings as much as feasible.
   6.   The main courtyards must be visible and accessible from the sidewalk.
Each ground floor unit must have access to a courtyard. The main courtyard must
be visible from the street with a minimum ten-foot (10') wide opening that is
open to the sky. For openings less than eighteen feet (18') in width into the
main courtyard, the depth of the opening must not exceed twice the width of the
opening.
   7.   All primary entrances to ground floor units must be accessed from the
street frontage or a courtyard.
   8.   All courtyards must meet the planting and tree requirements in section
9-1G-22-G.
   9.   Private open space within a courtyard is limited to a maximum of one
hundred twenty-five (125) square feet or twenty-five percent (25%) of the
courtyard, whichever is less.
J.   Walls and Fences:
   1.   No fences or walls will be allowed in the front yard, and all walls and
fences must be non-view obstructing.
   2.   Design requirements for walls and fences are found in Article N, Site
Planning and General Design Standards.
K.   Grading and Drainage for Sites with At-Grade Parking:
   1.   Where existing drainage flows from adjacent sites, the subject site
must continue to accept cross lot drainage and must not be designed in such a
way as to drain toward adjacent sites. The subject site must not create any
barriers that prohibit existing drainage flows from adjacent sites. In cases
where compliance with this requirement is deemed not feasible by the city, the
director may approve modifications to encourage as much onsite infiltration and
detention as feasible.
   2.   If the proposed finished grade will not alter existing cross lot
drainage patterns, the difference between the grade of the subject site and
adjacent sites must be within eight inches (8"). If the proposed finished grade
will alter existing cross lot drainage patterns, the applicant must demonstrate
how the subject property will address existing cross lot drainage patterns.
L.   Additional Requirements: New dwellings constructed within five hundred
feet (500') of an arterial street or a railway must be provided with a
mechanical ventilation system designed to attain enhanced air filtration with
the use of air filters that have a filtration efficiency equivalent to a
minimum efficiency reporting value (MERV) of eleven (11) or higher as
determined by testing methods established by the American Society Of Heating,
Refrigerating And Air-Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE) standard 52.2, as
periodically amended. All such ventilation system equipment and air filters
must be installed, operated, maintained and replaced in a manner consistent
with applicable building code requirements and with the manufacturer's
specifications and recommendations. Alternative air pollution mitigation
measures (e.g., setbacks, landscaped buffers, etc.) may be utilized where
feasible if they can be shown to have a mitigating effect that is equal to or
greater than the enhanced air filtration measures specified herein.
M.   Trash areas: Trash containers must provide not less than fifty (50)
gallons of capacity per dwelling unit. All containers must be regularly cleaned
and maintained and provided with tight fitting lids. Refuse storage areas will
be so located as to be easily accessible for trash pick-up. All outdoor trash,
garbage and refuse containers will be screened on all sides from public view by
a minimum six-foot (6')-high concrete or masonry decorative block wall, and the
opening provided with a gate of a durable wood or comparable material.
N.   Accessory storage: A minimum of sixty (60) cubic feet of enclosed
accessory storage space must be provided per dwelling unit.
(Ord. 19-1036; amd. Ord. 20-1047; Ord. 22-1068; Ord. 23-1070)
9-1G-23: R-2 ZONE DISTRICT RESIDENTIAL BUILDING DESIGN AND ARCHITECTURAL
STANDARDS:
The site design and architectural standards set forth in this chapter apply to
all new residential structures, additions to residential structures, and
accessory structures (including garages) in the R-2 District. Where a single
detached home is proposed on a lot, the development must comply with the
residential building design and architectural standards of the R-1 District.
A.   Building Facades:
   1.   Façade Treatment: The maximum total blank wall area (without windows or
entrances) will not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the first story wall.
   2.   For any new residential structure or addition, all sides of the
building(s) visible from the street or other public areas and where the space
between two (2) houses or structures is greater than twenty feet (20') should
be fully articulated and have elements that contribute to visual interest and
neighborhood character. This includes variation in massing, wall planes, and
roof forms as well as surface articulation such as window and door treatments
and windows.
   3.   The front entrance of residential structures must be recessed a minimum
of five feet from the front wall of the unit. The front recessed entry or porch
area must be covered.
   4.   No linear wall of a second story on a side or corner side yard may
extend more than twenty-four feet (24') without architectural articulation or
an offset of at least two feet (2') for not less than eight feet (8').
   5.   Balconies are only allowed along the front elevation or corner side
elevation of a dwelling facing a public street.
   6.   Dwellings must have exterior walls of brick, wood, stucco, metal,
concrete, or other similar material. Polished or unfinished metal siding is
prohibited.
   7.   Garages and garage doors must be designed to minimize their appearance.
This may include articulating with panels and/or windows on large planes, using
two (2) single-car garage doors instead of one (1) double-car garage door, and
using articulation of the façade and roof.
   8.   All vents, gutters, downspouts, flashing, and electrical panels must be
painted to match the surface to which they are attached, unless concealed or
used as a major design element, in which case the color is to be consistent
with the overall color scheme of the building.
   9.   Cantilevering of an upper floor over a lower floor must be limited to
projections of eighteen inches (18") and for a width of eight feet (8').
B.   Windows:
   1.   Window type, material, shape, and proportion must complement the
architectural style of the building and enhance the articulation and detailing
of the façade.
   2.   Consistent window and trim styles across elevations should be used.
   3.   Upper and lower windows should align vertically whenever possible.
   4.   Any faux shutters should be proportionate to the adjacent window to
create the appearance of a real and functional shutter.
   5.   Security bars and shutters must be limited to the interior side and
rear yard elevations.
C.   Roof Design and Materials:
   1.   Roofs should be designed as part of the overall massing and
architectural design. Roof slopes, massing, materials, and overhangs should be
designed and scaled appropriately for the desired architectural style.
   2.   Roof materials and colors are important aspects of the overall home
design and should be consistent with the desired architecture.
   3.   Roof design should enhance the visual interest of the building and
break up the massing of the building.
   4.   Each dwelling must have a full roof that meets Temple City building
code requirements. The following types of roof material are not allowed:
      a.   Glossy or polished surfacing on roofs.
      b.   Corrugated roofs.
      c.   Plastic, PVC, or other types of formed or molded material roofing
(does not include clay or cement tile or fiberglass or composition shingles).
      d.   Painted shingles.
   5.   Chimneys should be exposed as architectural features rather than hidden
within a wall surface.
   6.   Chimney caps should be decorative and conceal fireplace spark
arrestors.
D.   Utilities and Mechanical Equipment:
   1.   Electrical meters, cable boxes, junction boxes, and irrigation
controllers should be designed as an integral part of the building on a rear or
side elevation or otherwise screened from public view.
   2.   Building forms, fences, trellises, and landscaping should be used to
screen aboveground utility transformers, pull boxes, and termination cabinets,
where allowed by utility providers.
   3.   Utilities and mechanical equipment should be screened from the public
right-of-way and, to the extent feasible, either painted to match the wall
color, enclosed in a cabinet that is painted to match the wall color, or
provided with some other type of decorative screen. New roof mounted equipment
is prohibited unless it is replacing an existing piece of equipment.
   4.   Roof-mounted equipment, including dish antennae, must be screened from
view from public rights-of-way and adjacent properties by materials that are
architecturally compatible with the structure upon which they are mounted. See
Chapter 7-8 of this code for small residential rooftop solar energy systems.
   5.   All utilities must be placed underground. (Ord. 19-1036)
9-1G-24: R-2 ZONE DISTRICT RESIDENTIAL DESIGN CRITERIA:
Table 9-1G-9 establishes the criteria for compatibility, intensity, façade
treatments, and other design elements for the R-2 District.
 
Table 9-1G-9
Design Criteria for the R-2 District
Design Criterion                                    R-2 Additional Development
                                                        Requirement
Compatibility of Architectural Styles and Character
New construction and additions to residential
structures should have exterior colors, forms, and
materials that are consistent throughout, visually  A    
compatible with adjacent structures and the
surrounding neighborhood, and applied to all
facades.
Design of residential structures should be
consistent with local and regional architectural    A    
styles.
In areas with identified historic buildings,
structures, and sites, the proposed new development A    
should blend in with and complement the area's
historic character.
Rooflines and roofing materials must be compatible
with the architectural style of the residential     A    
structure. Use of varying, uncoordinated rooflines
and roofing materials should be avoided.
Building Façades
Multi-building developments will utilize a
consistent and stylistically compatible (but not    A    
necessarily identical) palette of scale, forms,
colors, materials, and textures.
The main entrance to a unit must be articulated
with a roof or porch form. Entrances of residential A    
structures should face the primary street.
Window and door design and placement must be
consistent with the overall architectural style of  A    
the structure and consistent with all windows/doors
visible from the public right-of-way.
Windows or similar openings will be oriented to
minimize any direct line-of-sight into adjacent     A    
units.
Entrances and windows, not garages, should be the   A    
dominant elements of the front façade of each unit
Scale and Massing
The size, mass, and scale of new dwellings must be
visually compatible with adjacent structures and    A    
the surrounding neighborhood.
Balance the massing and design of the structure(s)
so that the ground level is designed at the human   A    
scale, and upper levels are visually less massive
than the ground level.
Building massing should include variations in wall
planes (projections and recesses), wall height      A    
(vertical relief), and roof forms and heights to
reduce the perceived scale of the structure.
Site Design and Residential Structure Orientation
Common open space must be located at ground level
on the same property as the residential use it
serves, will be safely accessible and available     A    
exclusively for the use of all residents of the
development, and not be located adjacent to
driveways.
Building placement and orientation must be
carefully designed to enhance the streetscape,
minimize the visibility of garage doors, retain     A    
natural site features, and complement the existing
character of the neighborhood.
Building orientation must be to the public right of
way or to a common shared space with pedestrian     A    
access.
Easily identifiable pedestrian connections should
be provided from the street/sidewalk to key areas   A    
within or adjacent to the site.
Development should incorporate existing natural
features into the overall site design, including    A    
significant trees and vegetation and drainage
areas.
Decorative paving and/or brickwork, as well as
abutting shrubs or vines, are encouraged on all     A    
driveways to reduce the visual impact.
Concrete areas of driveways should be minimized as
much as possible. The use of pervious surfaces,     A    
such as pervious concrete or grasscrete, is
encouraged on driveways.
Site and building design must maximize the amount
of runoff directed to permeable areas and/or
maximize stormwater storage for reuse or
infiltration. Projects must use natural drainage,   A    
detention ponds, infiltration pits, and bioswales
to promote infiltration and reduce or prevent off-
site runoff.
Grading must be coordinated with the drainage
methods of adjacent properties and minimize         A    
differences in pad heights between the subject
property and adjacent properties.
Maximize permeable areas to allow percolation of
runoff through such means as biofilters, green      A    
strips, and swales.
Landscaping
Preserve existing mature trees where feasible on    A    
the property.
Trees and shrubs should be selected to minimize
root problems and be located and spaced to allow    A    
for mature, long-term growth.
The landscape and hardscape palettes should match   A    
the architecture of the structure.
Landscaping must be provided along all building     A    
elevations and along perimeter walls.
Drought tolerant and native plants should be used   A    
for planting of residential areas.
Fences and Walls
Fences and walls will be of the same or compatible      No fence allowed in the
material, in terms of texture and quality, as the   A   front yard and all
material and color of the principal building.           fences must be non-view
                                                        obstructing.
Loading and Storage
Trash enclosures will be constructed of sturdy,
durable, opaque materials (with trash receptacles   A    
screened from view.)
Utility and Mechanical Equipment
All mechanical equipment, meters, and utility
transformers will be placed in locations that are
not exposed to view from the street or will be      A    
screened from view with appropriate landscaping or
architecturally integrated low walls.
Building forms, fences, trellises, and landscaping
should be used to screen aboveground utility        A    
transformers, pull boxes, and termination cabinets,
where allowed by utility providers.
Utility meters should be clustered in readily
accessible locations when possible. Meters should   A    
not be placed in areas designated for landscaping.
Satellite dishes will be located away from public   A    
view.
Screening elements will be an integral part of the  A    
building's design.
A = Applicable
N/A = Not Applicable      
 
(Ord. 19-1036)
PART 3. R-3 ZONE DISTRICT
9-1G-30: R-3 ZONE DISTRICT DESIGNATION:
The R-3 district primarily provides for high-density, multi-family residential
development up to thirty-six (36) dwelling units per acre. The R-3 district is
intended for apartment and condominium/townhouse residential structures that
house multiple dwelling units and may consist of two (2) to three (3)-story
buildings. The district generally corresponds to the High-Density Residential
land use designation on the 2050 General Plan land use map.
These areas are multi-family in character, yet retain some of the
characteristics of suburban neighborhoods such as landscaped yards, off-street
parking, common open space, shared amenities, and low building heights (three
(3) stories or less). Other compatible uses, such as schools, childcare
centers, parks, and assembly uses, may also locate in areas with this
designation. (Ord. 19-1036)
9-1G-31: R-3 ZONE DISTRICT LAND USE AND PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
A.   Permit Requirements:
Table 9-1G-10 lists the permit requirements and code references for each land
use in
Table 9-1G-11.
 
Table 9-1G-10
Permit Requirement Labels for Table 9-1G-11
Label Permit Requirement              Code Section
Y     Permitted Use                    
A     Accessory to Permitted Use Only  
C     Conditional Use Permit           
N     Not Permitted                    
   
B.   Specific Land Uses: Where the last column in
Table 9-1G-11 includes an additional code reference, the requirements of the
referenced section also apply to the use.
 
Table 9-1G-11
Land Uses and Permit Requirements for Residential Zone Districts
Land Uses or Activities                             R-3 Notes/Reference
Accessory buildings or structures                   A   9-1F-10
Accessory dwelling units                            A   9-1T-13
Animal keeping                                      A   9-1T-17
Assembly uses: religious facilities, lodges, clubs, C
cultural centers, etc.
Childcare home                                      A
Community care facility, small                      A
Condominiums                                        Y
Family daycare homes                                A
Garage sales                                        T   9-1C-6 .F
Government Offices, Facilities and Parks            Y
Home occupations                                    A   9-1T-16
Junior accessory dwelling units                     Y   9-1T-13
Multi-family housing                                Y
Off street parking for R-3 uses                     A
Public parks and playgrounds                        Y
Schools (public and private)                        C
Short Term Rentals                                  N
Single-family dwellings                             Y
Storage containers delivered to a home (Pods)       T   9-1C-6 .F
Supportive housing                                  Y
Temporary events on city owned facilities           T   9-1C-6 .F
Temporary on-site construction yards and trailers   T   9-1C-6 .F
Temporary uses                                      A
Transitional housing                                Y
Wireless communications facilities                  C   9-1T-11
 
(Ord. 19-1036; amd. Ord. 20-1040U; Ord. 20-1047; Ord. 20-1048; Ord. 22-1060)
9-1G-32: R-3 ZONE DISTRICT RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
Development standards for the R-3 District are shown in
Table 9-1G-12 and described below. Where a single detached home is proposed on
a lot, the development must comply with the standards of zone R-1.
 
Table 9-1G-12
Temple City R-3 Development Standards
                                                        Adjacent Adjacent Not
                                                        to R-1   to R-2/  Adjacent to Notes
                                                                 R-3      Residential
Lot Area (square feet)
                                                                                      For a newly
   Lot size                                          10,000   10,000   10,000      created
                                                                                      lot.
   Minimum lot area per dwelling                     1,210    1,210    1,210        
   Maximum dwelling units (du per acre)              36       36       36           
Lot Width (feet)
                                                                                      Minimum
                                                                                      width
   Existing lot (min.)                               50       50       50          needed for
                                                                                      multi-famil
                                                                                      y use.
   New interior lot (min.)                           80       80       80           
   New corner lot (min.)                             100      100      100          
Lot Depth (feet)
   Lot (min.)                                        80       80       80           
Setbacks
Front (feet)
   1st Floor (min.)                                  20       20       20           
   2nd Floor (min.)                                  30       20       20           
   3rd Floor (min.)                                  40       40       40           
Interior Side (feet)
   1st Floor (min.)                                  5        5        5            
                                                                 Average  Average 10,
   2nd Floor (min.)                                  10       10, no   no less      
                                                                 less     than 5
                                                                 than 5
   3rd Floor (min.)                                  10       10       10           
Corner Side (feet)
   1st Floor (min.)                                  10       10       5            
   2nd Floor (min.)                                  10       10       10           
   3rd Floor (min.)                                  15       15       10           
Rear (feet)
   1st Floor (min.)                                  15       5        5           R-1 to the
                                                                                      rear.
   2nd Floor (min.)                                  20       10       5            
   3rd Floor (min.)                                  30       20       10           
Maximum Building Height (feet)
                                                                                      Whichever
                                                                                      is less.
                                                                                      Does not
                                                                                      include
                                                                                      fully
                                                        3        3                    subterranea
                                                        stories  stories  3 stories   n parking.
   Building (max.)                                   or 40    or 40    or 40 feet  Height
                                                        feet in  feet in  in height   measured
                                                        height   height               from top
                                                                                      plate of
                                                                                      subterranea
                                                                                      n parking
                                                                                      to top
                                                                                      plate of
                                                                                      residence.
   Accessory Building                                15       15       15           
                                                                                      Of first
   Dwelling, second and third floors                 0.75     0.75     0.75        floor
                                                                                      square
                                                                                      feet.
Maximum Lot Coverage
   All buildings                                     0.50     0.50     0.50         
Minimum Permeable Surface
                                                                                      Only
                                                                                      applies to
   Dwellings or structures                           0.20     0.20     0.20        projects
                                                                                      constructed
                                                                                      at grade.
Minimum Gross Floor Area Per Dwelling Unit (square feet)
   Bachelor Units                                    600      600      600          
   One Bedroom                                       750      750      750          
   Two Bedrooms                                      900      900      900          
   Three Bedrooms                                    1,100    1,000    1,000        
   More Than Three Bedrooms                          +150 each additional bedroom   
Distance Between Buildings (feet)
   Distances between primary dwellings and accessory 15       15       15           
structures
   Distance between all other buildings/structures   5        5        5            
Minimum Parking Spaces
                                                                                      Ground
                                                                                      level must
   Resident Parking (per unit)                       2        2        2           be in
                                                                                      enclosed
                                                                                      garage.
                                                                                      Fractions
                                                                                      of 0.5 or
   Guest Parking (per unit)                          0.2      0.2      0.2         more must
                                                                                      be rounded
                                                                                      up.
 
A.   Lot Size and Width Requirements:
   1.   Lot size: For newly created lots, the lot size must be a minimum of ten
thousand (10,000) square feet. For lots in existence at the time of adoption of
this ordinance, the minimum area per dwelling unit applies. When the number of
units is calculated, fractional units are rounded down to the nearest whole
number.
   2.   Lot width: Multi-family uses are only allowed on lots greater than
fifty feet (50') in width. New interior lots must be no less than eighty feet
(80') wide and new corner lots a minimum of one hundred feet (100') wide.
B.   Yard Setbacks:
   1.   Front Yard Setbacks: Each lot must maintain a minimum front yard
setback of twenty feet (20') in depth for the first story, thirty feet (30') in
depth for the second story, and forty feet (40') in depth for the third story.
   2.   Side Yard Setbacks:
      a.   Interior lots must maintain a side yard adjacent to each side lot
line of not less than five feet (5') for the first story of the building. The
second-story setback must be no less than ten feet (10') when sharing an
interior lot line with a R-1 property or an average of ten feet (10'), but
never less than five feet (5') when adjacent to any other zone. The third story
setback must be no less than ten feet (10') for the third-story portion of the
building.
      b.   On a corner lot, across the street from a R-1, R-2, or R-3 zoned
property, the first floor and second floor street side yard setback must be no
less than ten feet (10') and the third-floor street side yard setback must be
no less than fifteen feet (15').
      c.   On corner lots across the street from non-residential zones, the
first story street side setback must be no less than five feet (5') and the
second and third story street side setback must be no less than ten feet (10').
   3.   Rear Yard Setbacks:
      a.   When the property to the rear is zoned R-1, the first story rear
yard setback must be no less than fifteen feet (15'), the second story rear
yard setback must be no less than twenty feet (20'), and the third story rear
yard setback must be no less than thirty feet (30').
      b.   When the property to the rear is zoned R-2 or R-3, the first story
must be no less than five feet (5'), the second story rear yard setback must be
no less than ten feet (10'), and the third story rear yard setback must be no
less than twenty feet (20').
      c.   When the property to the rear is non-residentially zoned, the first
and second story rear yard setback must be no less than five feet (5'), and the
second story rear yard setback must be no less than ten feet (10').
C.   Placement of Buildings:
   1.   Buildings and structures must be a minimum of five feet (5') away from
each other, except as allowed in Section
9-1N-6 (Encroachments).
   2.   No portion of any principal dwelling may be located in any required
yard area, except as allowed in Section
9-1N-6 (Encroachments).
D.   Ratio of Ground Floor to Upper Stories: The floor area of upper stories
must not exceed seventy-five percent (75%) of the floor area of the ground
floor. In calculating the floor area of the ground floor, the definition of
floor area ratio is used.
E.   Accessory Uses And Structures:
   1.   Accessory uses and structures, including accessory dwelling units, pool
houses, workshops, sheds, and the like, but not including required garages, are
limited to one (1) per lot and must be located in the rear fifty percent (50%)
of the lot.
   2.   Accessory structures may not be placed in the required open space area.
   3.   An accessory structure of one hundred twenty (120) square feet or less
may be placed within a required side or rear setback, provided there is a
minimum of five feet (5') of setback between the accessory structure and the
property line. The exception is centralized trash enclosures which must be
setback a minimum of two feet (2') from all property lines and a minimum of ten
feet (10') from any window.
   4.   If either an alley or a utility easement exists along the rear of the
lot, not less than ten feet (10') of the rear lot line must be maintained free
and clear of buildings or structures, except for a fence with a gate to provide
access to the alley or utility easement.
   5.   On a reversed corner lot, an accessory building may be built to the
interior side lot line when located to the rear of the required side yard,
provided that no portion of such building must be erected closer than five feet
(5') to the property line of any abutting lot to the rear of such reversed
corner lot.
   6.   Portable shade structures are prohibited in the front yard and in the
corner side yard.
F.   Vehicle Parking and Driveways:
   1.   Off-street parking standards: Each lot or parcel of land in zone R-
3 must have on the same lot or parcel of land a minimum of two (2) off-street
parking spaces per dwelling unit and one (1) unenclosed guest parking space for
every five (5) units, rounded up at .5 spaces. Residence parking at grade must
be in a garage. Underground parking may be unenclosed, not in a garage.
   2.   Subterranean parking is not considered as a story of the building.
   3.   The top plate of underground parking shall be at natural grade.
   4.   Off-street parking reduction: For R-3 zoned lots that do not adjoin R-
1 zoned lots the off-street parking standard may be reduced subject to approval
by the director. A study that adequately demonstrates reduced parking demand
resulting for transit accessibility or other factors must be submitted.
   5.   Each required parking space in a garage must be no less than ten feet
(10') wide and twenty feet (20') long. Open parking areas may use non-
residential parking size standards (8.5 feet by 18 feet) plus 1.5 feet when
next to a vertical obstruction.
   6.   Tandem parking must not be used for guest parking.
   7.   Guest parking may not be in the front yard, street side yard, in a
required driveway, or a fire lane. Vehicle parking at grade may not be in the
front or side yard areas, except on paved driveways. "No Parking" signs must be
placed conspicuously at the entrance to and at intervals of not less than fifty
feet (50') along every required driveway.
   8.   For lots with two units, driveways are limited to a maximum paved width
of sixteen feet (16'). No more than twelve feet (12') of the vehicular access
to the garage may consist of hardscape; the remaining four feet (4') on either
side must consist of landscaping. For lots less than eighty feet (80') in width
only one (1) driveway is allowed. The minimum driveway width will be ten feet
(10') for sites with twenty-five (25) or fewer spaces. For sites with more than
twenty five (25) spaces, the minimum driveway width is ten feet (10') wide for
each one (1)-way driveway or twenty feet (20') for two (2)-way driveways. If
two (2) driveways are required, the driveways must be placed on opposite sides
of the site.
   9.   When units face a driveway located within a required side yard, a
landscaped area of at least five feet (5') wide must be maintained between any
dwelling and the driveway. Walkways may not encroach more than two feet (2')
into this landscaped area.
   10.   Where a lot abuts an alley, parking access must be from the alleyway
and not from the primary street.
   11.   Walkways must not be placed directly adjacent and parallel to
driveways, so as to expand the maximum size of driveways. Walkways parallel to
driveways should be placed at minimum three feet (3') from the driveway.
   12.   Entrances to residential units should be from a courtyard and not from
a driveway.
   13.   There must be no more than one (1) driveway per site, unless waived by
the Community Development Director for the project to comply with the Fire or
Building Code or in cases such as through lots, or large developments.
G.   Landscape and Hardscape Requirements:
   1.   At minimum, twenty-five percent (25%) of the lot area must be
landscaped. The landscaped area must include a minimum of seventy percent (70%)
of live vegetation. Live vegetation includes lawn areas, shrubs, and flowerbeds
and does not include permeable pavers, turf block, or grasscrete. See section
9-1N-11 (Artificial Turf) for regulations related to artificial turf, including
maximum coverage.
   2.   Hardscape in the front yard must not exceed the following:
      a.   On parcels less than fifty feet (50') in width, no more than forty
percent (40%) of the front yard may be hardscape. On parcels fifty (50) to
eighty (80) feet in width, no more than thirty-five percent (35%) of the front
yard may be hardscape.
      b.   On parcels greater than eighty feet (80') in width, no more than
thirty percent (30%) of the front yard may be hardscape.
   3.   A combination of trees, shrubs, and ground cover must be incorporated
into landscaping plans.
      a.   For projects built at grade, three (3) trees must be at least
thirty-six-inch (36") box trees. All other trees should be at least twenty-
four-inch (24") boxes. For projects with below grade parking, all tree should
be at least twenty-four-inch (24") box trees.
      b.   Shrubs must be a minimum of five (5) gallon.
      c.   Landscape plans must be prepared by a licensed landscaped architect.
   4.   All landscaped areas will be developed and professionally maintained in
accordance with approved landscape and irrigation plans.
   5.   Mulch or stone-type materials should be placed between plants as ground
cover or backdrop, not as a replacement for live vegetation. Plants should be
spaced so that at maturity, the plants eventually cover most, if not all, of
the mulch or stone material.
   6.   The use of mounding grasses such as Festuca californica, Festuca rubra,
and Carex pansa are preferred.
   7.   Bare dirt is not permitted within the front yard or visible street side
yard. All bare dirt areas must be finished with a minimum three-inch (3")-thick
layer of mulch, organic bark, or earth-tone-colored rubber bark.
   8.   Rocks, stones, and pebbles are not to be used near public sidewalks or
streets because they are a slipping hazard.
   9.   Dry stream beds and areas of decomposed granite must not account for
more than twenty percent (20%) of the front or rear yard.
   10.   Paved pathways to the front door should be no more than five feet (5')
wide, and all other pathways should be no more than three feet (3') wide.
   11.   Plantings must be at grade or in finished planters not exceeding
eighteen inches (18") above finished grade in courtyards or top plate of
subterranean parking.
   12.   For courtyards thirty feet (30') or more in width, at least one (1)
medium tree with a twenty-four-foot (24') canopy or more at maturity must be
planted in the courtyard. For courtyards less than thirty feet (30') in width,
at least two (2) small trees with a twelve-foot (12') canopy, or more at
maturity, must be provided. Trees must be planted in a minimum three-foot (3')
deep planter (not exceeding eighteen inches (18") above finished grade in
courtyards).
   13.   Medium canopy trees must be planted in an area that is a minimum
eighteen feet (18') in width and length or diameter. Small canopy trees must be
planted in an area that is a minimum twelve feet (12') in width and length or
diameter.
   14.   A minimum of three feet (3') in depth is required for tree plantings
in courtyards, above the top plate of subterranean parking.
H.   Common Open Space Requirements:
   1.   Common open space is required for developments with more than two (2)
units.
   2.   A minimum of twenty percent (20%) of the lot size must be provided for
common open space.
   3.   Common open space must have a minimum dimension of thirty feet (30')
for lots more than sixty feet (60') in width and twenty feet (20') for lots
less than sixty feet (60') in width.
   4.   Common open space includes recreational-leisure areas, private areas,
or a combination of both.
   5.   Common recreational areas must be located on the same property as the
residential use it serves and must be available exclusively for the use of all
residents of the development.
   6.   Private useable open space will be contiguous to the residential units
served. Private open space may be delineated by a wall, fence, hedge no taller
than forty-two inches (42") in height.
   7.   All common areas will be developed and professionally maintained in
accordance with approved landscape and irrigation plans.
I.   Main Courtyard Requirements:
   1.   Parcels having a width greater than fifty feet (50') in the R-
3 district must provide a main courtyard on the lot.
   2.   Main courtyards must be no less than ten percent (10%) of the total lot
area and in no case less than one thousand (1,000) square feet with a minimum
width and length of twenty feet (20') measured parallel to the front and side
parcel lines.
   3.   The main courtyards must be open to the sky, but may include the
following permitted projections:
      a.   Eaves may project up to three feet (3') into the main courtyard.
      b.   Exterior, unenclosed building elements such as stoops, balconies and
open stairs may encroach three feet (3') into the main garden.
   4.   If mechanical or utility equipment is placed in the main courtyard
area, it must be screened visually and acoustically and must not encroach into
the required main courtyard area. Mechanical or utility equipment can be in
private open space.
   5.   A minimum of fifty percent (50%) of the courtyard's perimeter must be
enclosed by a building.
   6.   Courtyards must be visible and accessible from the sidewalk and each
ground floor unit. The view corridor must not be provided from the driveway.
Courtyards must be visible from the street with a minimum ten-foot (10') wide
opening that is open to the sky. For openings less than eighteen feet (18') in
width into courtyards, the depth of the opening must not exceed twice the width
of the opening.
   7.   All primary entrances to ground floor units must be accessed from the
street frontage or courtyard.
   8.   Courtyard areas must meet the planting and tree requirements in section
9-1G-32, subsection G.
   9.   Private open space within a courtyard is limited to a maximum of one
hundred twenty-five (125) square feet or twenty-five percent (25%) of the
courtyard, whichever is less.
J.   Walls and Fences:
   1.   No fences or walls will be allowed in the front yard, and all walls and
fences must be non-view obstructing.
   2.   Design requirements for walls and fences are found in Article N, Site
Planning and General Design Standards.
K.   Grading and Drainage for Sites with At-Grade Parking:
   1.   Where existing drainage flows from adjacent sites, the subject site
must continue to accept cross lot drainage and must not be designed in such a
way as to drain toward adjacent sites. The subject site must not create any
barriers that prohibit existing drainage flows from adjacent sites. In cases
where compliance with this requirement is deemed not feasible by the city, the
director may approve modifications to encourage as much onsite infiltration and
detention as feasible.
   2.   If the proposed finished grade will not alter existing cross lot
drainage patterns, the difference between the grade of the subject site and
adjacent sites must be within eight inches (8"). If the proposed finished grade
will alter existing cross lot drainage patterns, the applicant must demonstrate
how the subject property will address existing cross lot drainage patterns. If
the proposed finished grade will not alter existing cross lot drainage
patterns, the difference between the grade of the subject site and adjacent
sites must be within eight inches (8"). If the proposed finished grade will
alter existing cross lot drainage patterns, the applicant must demonstrate how
the subject property will address existing cross lot drainage patterns.
L.   Additional Requirements:
   1.   New dwellings constructed within five hundred feet (500') of an
arterial street or a railway must be provided with a mechanical ventilation
system designed to attain enhanced air filtration with the use of air filters
that have a filtration efficiency equivalent to a minimum efficiency reporting
value (MERV) of eleven (11) or higher as determined by testing methods
established by the American Society Of Heating, Refrigerating And Air-
Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE) standard 52.2, as periodically amended. All
such ventilation system equipment and air filters must be installed, operated,
maintained and replaced in a manner consistent with applicable building code
requirements and with the manufacturer's specifications and recommendations.
Alternative air pollution mitigation measures (e.g., setbacks, landscaped
buffers, etc.) may be utilized where feasible if they can be shown to have a
mitigating effect that is equal to or greater than the enhanced air filtration
measures specified herein.
   2.   Trash areas: Trash containers must provide not less than fifty (50)
gallons of capacity per dwelling unit. All containers must be regularly cleaned
and maintained and provided with tight fitting lids. All trash storage areas
must be located for convenient vehicular access for pickup. All outdoor trash,
garbage and refuse containers will be screened on all sides from public view by
a minimum six-foot (6')-high concrete or masonry decorative block wall, and the
opening provided with a gate of a durable wood or comparable material.
   3.   Accessory storage: A minimum of sixty (60) cubic feet of enclosed
accessory storage space must be provided per dwelling unit. (Ord. 19-1036; amd.
Ord. 20-1047; Ord. 23-1070)
9-1G-33: R-3 ZONE DISTRICT INCENTIVES:
Incentives:
Table 9-1G-13 incentives are intended to encourage the consolidation of smaller
R-3 zoned lots into larger development sites to achieve the scale and quality
of development envisioned for the area.
 
Table 9-1G-13
Lot Consolidation Incentives
Number of Lots Consolidated Incentive
4 to 6 lots                 15% increase in number of allowable units
                           10% reduction in guest parking
7 or more lots              20% increase in number of allowable units
                           10% reduction in guest parking
 
Through the development agreement process, the city may consider other lot
consolidation incentive bonuses such as increased building height, vacation of
alleys, reductions in processing fees, in-lieu fees, or utility connection
fees. The extent of such bonuses may vary on a case by case basis subject to
agreement between a project applicant and the city. (Ord. 19-1036)
9-1G-34: R-3 ZONE DISTRICT RESIDENTIAL BUILDING DESIGN AND ARCHITECTURAL
STANDARDS:
The site design and architectural standards set forth in this chapter apply to
all new residential structures, additions to residential structures, and
accessory structures (including garages) in the R-3 District. Where a single
detached home is proposed on a lot, the development must comply with the
residential building design and architectural standards of the R-1 District.
A.   Building Facades.
   1.   Buildings should be oriented toward the street and common open space.
The dwelling unit(s) nearest the front property line must have a "front
elevation" as viewed from the street and must have a front door situated along
the building wall nearest the street. The front entrance of each residential
unit must be recessed a minimum of five feet (5') from the front wall of the
house. The front recessed entry or porch area must be covered.
   2.   No façade along a primary street may be longer than sixty feet (60').
   3.   For any new residential structure or addition, all sides of the
building(s) visible from the street or other public areas and where the space
between two (2) houses or structures is greater than twenty feet (20') should
be fully articulated and have elements that contribute to visual interest and
neighborhood character. This includes variation in massing, wall planes, and
roof forms as well as surface articulation such as window and door treatments
and windows.
   4.   Balconies are only allowed along the front elevation or corner side
elevation of a dwelling facing a public street.
   5.   Dwellings must have exterior walls of brick, wood, stucco, metal,
concrete, or other similar material. Polished or unfinished metal siding is
prohibited.
   6.   Garages and garage doors must be designed to minimize their appearance.
This may include articulating with panels and/or windows on large planes, using
two (2) single-car garage doors instead of one (1) double-car garage door, and
using articulation of the façade and roof.
   7.   All vents, gutters, downspouts, flashing, and electrical panels must be
painted to match the surface to which they are attached, unless concealed or
used as a major design element, in which case the color is to be consistent
with the overall color scheme of the building.
   8.   Balconies are not allowed on side or rear elevations facing single-
family homes.
   9.   No exterior stairways are allowed.
   10.   Cantilevering of an upper floor over a lower floor must be limited to
projections of eighteen inches (18") and for a width of eight feet (8').
B.   Windows:
   1.   Window type, material, shape, and proportion must complement the
architectural style of the building and enhance the articulation and detailing
of the façade. Where appropriate to the architectural style, windows should be
inset a minimum of two inches (2") from the building walls to create shade and
shadow detail.
   2.   Consistent window and trim styles across elevations should be used.
   3.   Upper and lower windows should align vertically whenever possible.
   4.   Any faux shutters should be proportionate to the adjacent window to
create the appearance of a real and functional shutter.
C.   Roof Design and Materials.
   1.   Roofs should be designed as part of the overall massing and
architectural design. Roof slopes, massing, materials, and overhangs should be
designed and scaled appropriately for the desired architectural style.
   2.   Portions of a new building or roof modification that are within thirty
feet (30') of an existing home must not exceed the height of the existing home
by more than six feet (6').
   3.   Roof materials and colors are important aspects of the overall home
design and should be consistent with the desired architecture.
   4.   Roof design should enhance the visual interest of the building and
break up the massing of the building.
   5.   Each dwelling must have a full roof that meets Temple City building
code requirements. The following types of roof material are not allowed:
      a.   Glossy or polished surfacing on roofs.
      b.   Corrugated roofs.
      c.   Plastic, PVC, or other types of formed or molded material roofing
(does not include clay or cement tile or fiberglass or composition shingles).
      d.   Painted shingles.
   6.   Chimneys should be exposed as architectural features rather than hidden
within a wall surface.
   7.   Chimney caps should be decorative and conceal fireplace spark
arrestors.
D.   Utilities and Mechanical Equipment:
   1.   Roof-mounted equipment, including dish antennae, must be screened from
view from public rights-of-way and adjacent properties by materials that are
architecturally compatible with the structure upon which they are mounted. See
Chapter 7-8 of this code for small residential rooftop solar energy systems.
   2.   New roof mounted equipment is prohibited unless it is replacing an
existing piece of equipment.
   3.   All utility wires must be placed underground. (Ord. 19-1036)
9-1G-35: RESIDENTIAL DESIGN CRITERIA:
Table 9-1M-30.5 establishes the criteria for compatibility, intensity, facade
treatments, and other design elements for the R-3 District.
 
Table 9-1M-30.5
Design Criteria for the R-3 District
                                                                               R- Additional
Design Criterion                                                               3  Development
                                                                                  Requirement
Compatibility of Architectural Styles and Character
Design of residential structures should be consistent with local and regional  A   
architectural styles.
The size, mass, and scale of new dwellings must be visually compatible with    A   
adjacent structures and the surrounding neighborhood.
In areas with identified historic buildings, structures, and sites, the
proposed new development should blend in with and complement the area's        A   
historic character.
Additions to residential structures must be designed and constructed to be
similar to the architectural style and building form of the structure to which A   
they are added, including similar or complementary color, roof design, and
other key architectural features.
Rooflines and roofing materials must be compatible with the architectural
style of the residential structure. Use of varying, uncoordinated rooflines    A   
and roofing materials should be avoided.
Window and door design and placement must be consistent with the overall
architectural style of the structure and consistent with all windows/doors     A   
visible from the public right-of-way.
Multi-building developments will utilize a consistent and stylistically
compatible (but not necessarily identical) palette of scale, forms, colors,    A   
materials, and textures.
Building Form and Design
Building placement and orientation must be carefully designed to enhance the
streetscape, retain natural site features and complement the existing          A   
character of the neighborhood.
Balance the massing and design of the structure(s), so that the ground level
is designed at the human scale, and upper levels are visually less massive     A   
than the ground level.
Building massing should include variations in wall planes (projections and
recesses), wall height (vertical relief), and roof forms and heights to reduce A   
the perceived scale of the structure.
Entrances should serve no more than two units.                                 A   
Building design should focus on individual unit identity and provide               
architectural styling to distinguish from other units.
Building accents such as trellises, arched gates or arbors should be used to   A   
provide visual interest and demarcation to entrances.
Windows or similar openings will be oriented to minimize any direct line-of-
sight into adjacent units or onto private patios or backyards adjoining the    A   
property line.
Site Design and Open Space
Building placement and orientation must be carefully designed to enhance the
streetscape, retain natural site features, and complement the existing         A   
character of the neighborhood.
Building orientation must be to the public right of way or to a common shared  A   
space with pedestrian access.
Common open space will be located at ground level on the same property as the
residential use it serves, will be safely accessible and available exclusively A   
for the use of all residents of the development, and not be located adjacent
to driveways.
Easily identifiable pedestrian connections should be provided from the street/ A   
sidewalk to key areas within or adjacent to the site.
Development should incorporate existing natural features into the overall site A   
design, including significant trees and vegetation and drainage areas.
Concrete areas of driveways should be minimized as much as possible. The use
of pervious surfaces, such as pervious concrete or grasscrete, is encouraged   A   
on driveways.
Site and building design must maximize the amount of runoff directed to
permeable areas and/or maximize stormwater storage for reuse or infiltration.  A   
Projects must use natural drainage, detention ponds, infiltration pits, and
bioswales to promote infiltration and reduce or prevent off-site runoff.
Grading must be coordinated with the drainage methods of adjacent properties
and minimize differences in pad heights between the subject property and       A   
adjacent properties.
Maximize permeable areas to allow percolation of runoff through such means as  A   
biofilters, green strips, and swales.
Landscaping
Preserve existing mature trees where feasible on the property.                 A   
Trees and shrubs should be selected to minimize root problems and be located   A   
and spaced to allow for mature, long-term growth.
Drought tolerant and native plants should be used for planting of residential
areas. Drought tolerant landscaping must include native water conserving       A   
plants.
Landscape and hardscape palettes should match the architecture of the          A   
structure.
Landscaping must be provided along all building elevations and along perimeter A   
walls.
Circulation and Parking
New development provides for adequate access and off-street parking            A   
arrangements.
Parking structures will be architecturally integrated with the project design
and will be screened from view at street level by architectural detailing,     A   
façade treatment, artwork, landscaping, or similar visual features to enhance
the street façade.
Shared vehicle and pedestrian circulation areas should utilize decorative
paving and/or brickwork for pedestrian ways traversing parking areas or        A   
alongside of vehicular circulation.
Guest parking should occur at the rear of the site when possible and may       A   
encroach into the rear setback.
Driveways and walkways must be separated with landscaping or other appropriate A   
treatment.
Fences, Walls, and Enclosures
                                                                                  No fences or
                                                                                  walls will
                                                                                  be allowed
                                                                                  in the front
Fences and walls will be of the same or compatible material, in terms of       A  yard, and
texture and quality, as the material and color of the principal building.         all fences
                                                                                  and walls
                                                                                  must be non-
                                                                                  view
                                                                                  obstructing.
Trash enclosures will be constructed of sturdy, durable, opaque materials      A   
(with trash receptacles screened from view).
Utility and Mechanical Equipment
All mechanical equipment, meters, and utility transformers will be placed in
locations that are not exposed to view from the street or will be screened     A   
from view with appropriate landscaping or architecturally integrated low
walls.
Building forms, fences, trellises, and landscaping should be used to screen
aboveground utility transformers, pull boxes, and termination cabinets, where  A   
allowed by utility providers.
Utility meters should be clustered in readily accessible locations when        A   
possible. Meters should not be placed in areas designated for landscaping.
Satellite dishes should be located away from public view.                      A   
A = Applicable
N/A = Not Applicable
 
(Ord. 19-1036)
ARTICLE H. MIXED-USE ZONE DISTRICTS
SECTION:
9-1H-1: Mixed-Use Designation
9-1H-2: Land Uses And Permit Requirements
9-1H-3: Mixed-Use Development Standards
9-1H-4: Mixed-Use Design Review
9-1H-5: Mixed-Use Design Standards
9-1H-1: MIXED USE DESIGNATION:
A.   Mixed-Use Low:
The Mixed-Use Low (MU-L) District promotes development of mixed-use residential
and retail development with an emphasis on neighborhood serving uses. MU-L is
intended to provide an opportunity for existing, predominantly residentially
zoned areas to transition to a mixed-use area. While the MU-L zone will allow
for small scale vertical mixed-use, it is more likely that future development
would have more horizontal mixed-use (street facing commercial with residential
behind), and the potential conversion of homes to non-residential uses.
The MU-L Zone provides for a range of smaller to medium scale retail,
horizontal mixed-use developments, and multi-family residential uses up to
twenty (20) dwelling units per acre. Development designed primarily to
accommodate vehicular access and parking, and development that is insensitive
or incompatible with the scale and character of the surrounding residential
areas, would be discouraged in this district.
B.   Mixed-Use Medium:
The Mixed-Use Medium (MU-M) District is intended to be developed with mix of
retail, office, restaurant uses and residential development in a compact,
walkable setting. This designation encourages multiple family residential of up
to forty (40) dwelling units per acre. Anticipated commercial and professional
land use, as well as residential uses, would be configured in a vertical or
horizontal design. The expectation is that the residential units would be above
or behind the commercial and office land uses and would not gain direct access
from Las Tunas Drive.
Development requirements and design standards of the MU-M district are intended
to promote compatibility with commercial uses while allowing select residential
activity, by addressing vital private/public open space components and provide
pedestrian connections to the downtown district. (Ord. 19-1036)
9-1H-2: LAND USES AND PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
A.   Permit Requirements:
Table 9-1H-1 provides the name of the permit, and location of procedure for the
permit, for each land use in
Table 9-1H-2.
 
Table 9-1H-1
Permit Requirement Labels for
Table 9-1H-2
Label Permit Requirement
Y     Permitted Use
U     Permitted on Upper Floors Only
A     Accessory to Permitted Use Only
C     Conditional Use Permit
C/U   Conditional Use Upper Floors Only
T     Temporary Use Permit
N     Not Permitted
 
B.   Standards for all mixed-use zoning district land uses: A conditional use
permit consistent with Article C applies to any land uses in any mixed-use
zoning district that include one (1) or more of the following:
   1.   Any land use with a drive through.
   2.   Any land use with hours of operation after 10:00 p.m. or before 6:00
a.m.
   3.   Any land use that includes live entertainment.
C.   Specific land uses in mixed-use zoning districts: Where the last column in
Table 9-1H-2 includes an Additional Use Requirement Code Reference, the
requirements of the referenced section will apply to the use in addition to all
other applicable provisions of this zoning code.
 
Table 9-1H-2
Land Uses and Permit Requirements for Mixed-Use Zone Districts
Land Uses                           MU-L MU-M Additional Use Requirement
Adult Day Health Care Centers       C    C
Adult Oriented Businesses           N    N    See
                                              9-1T-6
Alcohol sales, offsite consumption  N    C
Antique shop (collectibles and
items intended for decorating       C    C
only).
Any public utility facility         N    C
Assembly uses - religions
facilities, lodges, clubs, cultural N    C
centers, etc.
Auto Title Loans                    N    N
Bail and surety bond businesses     N    N
(CUP required).
Banks, Finance Services and         C    Y
Institutions
Banquet facility                    N    C
Bars                                N    C
Check Cashing Services              N    C
Chiropractic or acupuncture office  Y    Y
or studio
Government Offices, Facilities and  C    C
Parks
Collection facility                 N    C
Commercial recreation, indoor -
Billiards, bowling alley, skating   N    C
rink, children's play spaces, etc.
Commercial recreation, outdoor -
Tennis clubs, batting cage, driving N    C
range, etc.
Community care facility/large       Y    C
Community garden                    T    N
Condominiums, non-residential       N    N
Consignment Store                   C    C
Convenience Stores                  C    Y
Day spas (facials, waxing, skin
treatments, and similar services    Y    Y    9-1T-12
not including massage).
Education - Business, trade,        C    C
vocational school
Education - Tutoring, fitness,
dance, art, martial arts or music   C    C
classes >500 square feet
Education - Tutoring, fitness,
dance, art, martial arts, or music  C    C
classes <500 square feet
Education- Day Care, Pre-School,
Elementary, Middle, Junior High,    C    C
High school, or College/University
Emergency shelter                   N    N    See
                                              9-1T-5
Farmers Market                      T    C
Fortune Teller                      C    C
Fuel/service station                N    N
Furniture repair and upholstery,    C    Y
fabrics and supplies.
Game Arcades (including Internet    N    C
gaming)
Garage sales on non-residentially   N    N    9-1C-6 .F
used properties
Garage sales on residentially used  T    T    9-1C-6 .F
properties
Gun Shops                           N    C
Gymnasiums & health clubs           N    C
Home Occupation                     A    A    9-1T-16
Hookah/smoke lounge                 N    N
Hospital/medical facility           N    C
Hotel/motel                         N    C
Housing for special needs           Y    U    9-1T-3
Karaoke                             N    A
Karaoke, primary use                N    N
Kennel, indoor                      C    C
Kennel, outdoor                     C    N
Laundromats                         N    C
Library or museum                   N    C
Massage business or establishment   C    C    See
                                              9-1T-12
Mixed-use1                          Y    Y
Mortuaries and funeral homes.       C    N
Multiple Family Dwelling            Y    N1   See R-3 for development standards
(standalone)
Multiple Tenant Merchant Mart or    N    C
Restaurant Use
Office, General                     Y    Y
Office, Medical                     Y    Y
Outdoor fundraising                 T    T    9-1C-6.F
Outdoor sales                       C    C
Outpatient Clinics                  C    C
Parks                               C    C
Parking Lots/Garages (Public and    C    C
Commercial)
Pawn Shop                           N    N
Personal services (barber/beauty
shop, diet/nutrition center,
locksmith, mailbox rental, nail/    Y    Y
manicure shop, bicycle sales/
repair, tailor, shoe repair,
tanning salon, travel agent)
Pest control and exterminators,
retail sales and office, but no
storage of pest control or          C    Y
exterminating contractor vehicles,
equipment, or storage of bulk
chemicals or pesticides.
Public food Market                  N    C    See
                                              9-1T-20
Recording Studios                   C    C
Restaurant utilizing public parking N    C
Restaurant with onsite parking      C    Y
Restaurants serving alcohol         N    C
Restaurants, fast food utilizing
public parking. Including bakeries,
ice cream shops, delis, coffee and  N    C
tea stores, and donut shops, that
have seating
Restaurants, fast food with onsite
parking. Including bakeries, ice
cream shops, delis, coffee and tea  N    Y
stores, and donut shops, that have
seating
Retail sales, 10,000 square feet or N    C
greater
Retail sales, under 10,000 square   Y    Y
feet
Reverse vending machine             A    A
Seasonal sales on non-residentially T    T    9-1C-6 .F
used properties
Seasonal sales on residentially     N    N    9-1C-6 .F
used properties
Self storage                        N    N
Short term rentals                  N    N
Sidewalk dining café               A    A    9-1T-18
Single Family Residential           Y    N    See R-1 for development standards
Single room occupancy (SRO)         N    N    9-1T-4
building
Storage containers delivered to a   T    T    9-1C-6 .F
home (Pods)
Storage or shipping container over
one hundred twenty (120) square     N    T
feet in size or six feet (6') in
height.
Tattoo parlor                       N    C
Temporary on-site construction      T    T    9-1C-6 .F
yards and trailers
Thrift stores                       C    C
Unattended collection box           N    Y
Vehicle - Body Shop                 N    N
Vehicle - Full Service or Self-     N    N
Service Car Wash
Vehicle - Rental                    N    C
Vehicle - Repair                    N    C
Vehicle - Sales                     N    N
Veterinary Clinic, indoor kennel    Y    Y
only
Veterinary Clinic, outdoor and      C    C
indoor kennel
 
1Multi-family uses are permitted in the MU-M zone only on properties with
frontage on Camellia Avenue and Kauffman Avenue.
(Ord. 19-1036; amd. Ord. 21-1056; Ord. 22-1060)
9-1H-3: MIXED-USE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
A.   Commercial and Residential Development Standards for MU-L and MU-
M Districts: Development standards for all Mixed-Use Zone Districts are shown
in
Table 9-1H-3. Development standards for Single Family Residential Districts are
found in the R-1 and R-2 Districts of the city's zoning code. Development
standards for Multi-Family Residential Districts are found in the R-3 District
of the city's zoning code.
 
Table 9-1H-3
Development Standards for Mixed-Use Zone Districts
                                          MU-L               MU-M
Development Standards                     Min.     Max.      Min.     Max.
Building Intensity                                                  
Density                                                             
Residential                               10 du/ac 20 du/ac  See R-3 Zone
Mixed-Use                                 10 du/ac 20 du/ac  20 du/ac 40 du/ac
Floor Area Ratio (FAR)
Mixed-Use building                        None     1.5       1.5      2.0
Multi-Family only                         See R-3 Zone District
Commercial only                           None     0.5       N/A      N/A
Lot Size and Coverage
Lot Size, sq. ft.                         7,500    None      10,000   None
Lot Coverage, mixed-use                   50%      80%       60%      90%
Lot coverage, non- residential            None     50%       None     90%
Lot coverage, multi- family residential   See R-3 zone
Lot coverage, single- family residential  See R-1 zone
Building Placement
Front setback                             15 ft. 1 25 ft. 1  5 ft.    10 ft.2
Side setback                              5 ft.    None      5 ft.    None
Side setback, adjacent to residential     10 ft.   None      10 ft.   None
Rear setback, adjacent to non-residential 5 ft.    None      5 ft.    None
Rear setback, adjacent to a residential   15 ft.   None      15 ft.   None
zone
Building Height
Floors                                    None     3 stories None     4 stories
Building Height                           None     45 ft.    None     60 ft.
Accessory Structure                       None     18 ft.    None     30 ft.
1 No parking allowed in setback.
2 Café, public plazas, and similar open-air uses as permitted, are allowed in
setback.
3 On Las Tunas Drive and Temple City Boulevard, 50 percent of a building's
street frontage must contain non-residential uses. Residential uses on the
ground floor are permitted if designed with a "walk-up" entrance.
 
B.   Property Development Standards:
   1.   Depth of Non-Residential Tenant Spaces: New, non-residential tenant
spaces must have a minimum useable depth of forty feet (40') along sixty
percent (60%) of the length of the building frontage and in no case be less
than twenty feet (20') in depth. On a corner lot where storefronts and
commercial uses are required, storefronts and commercial spaces shall turn and
wrap around the corner for a minimum length of twenty feet (20'). Where
storefronts and useable commercial space are not required, storefronts and
commercial uses at the ground floor shall have a minimum depth of twenty feet
(20').
   2.   Minimum Non-Residential Unit Size: The minimum size of a new non-
residential tenant space is eight hundred (800) square feet. The minimum width
of a new, non-residential tenant space is 25 feet. These requirements apply to
units previously subdivided.
   3.   Ground Floor Height: The minimum height of the ground floor of all non-
residential buildings (including mixed use projects) must be fifteen feet
(15'). This height will be measured from the floor of the first story to the
floor of the second story. If there is no second story, the height shall be
measured to the top of the roof.
   4.   Building Articulation:
      a.   Façade Treatment: The maximum total blank wall area (without windows
or entrances) will not exceed thirty percent (30%) of the first story wall for
non-residential and fifty percent (50%) for residential.
      b.   Building Stepbacks: The third floor and higher must be stepped back
by a minimum of ten feet (10') on all sides of buildings.
   5.   Screening of Equipment, Refuse Storage and Loading Areas:
      a.   Exterior Storage Areas, Loading Docks, Loading Areas: All exterior
storage areas, loading docks, and loading areas must be screened from view by a
solid fence, wall or mature landscaped materials whenever possible. When
screening of loading docks and loading areas is not possible, the facilities
will be integrated into the overall design of the building.
      b.   Mechanical Equipment and Duct Work: All ground, utility and rooftop
mechanical equipment, including dish antennas, must be placed behind a
permanent parapet wall and must be completely screened from all ground-level/
public view. Mechanical equipment must not be exposed on the wall surface of a
building. Gutters and downspouts are not to project from the vertical surface
of the building. Vents, louvres, exposed flashing, tanks, stacks, overhead
doors, rolling and "man" service doors are to be treated in a manner consistent
with the color scheme of the building. Screening elements will be an integral
part of the building's design and must be as high as the highest portion of the
equipment or ducting and must be permanently maintained.
      c.   Refuse Storage: Within parking district areas, businesses will
utilize the common trash enclosure areas unless specifically permitted to do
otherwise by the planning commission. All outdoor trash, garbage and refuse
containers will be screened on all sides from public view by a minimum six-
foot-high concrete or masonry decorative block wall, and the opening provided
with a gate of a durable wood or comparable material. Refuse storage areas will
be located as to be easily accessible for trash pick-up.
   6.   Landscaping, Open Space and Lighting:
      a.   Landscaping: All areas not utilized for building area and/or
parking/circulation will be improved with landscaping and improved pedestrian
surfaces. Landscaping consists of a combination of trees, shrubs, and ground
cover with careful consideration given to the eventual size and spread,
susceptibility to disease and pests, durability, and adaptability to existing
soil and climatic conditions. A landscaping and irrigation plan must be
submitted for the review and approval of the Community Development Director.
All planted areas must be surrounded by a concrete curb six inches (6") above
final grade or above asphalt level of the parking lot. However, when such
planted areas are adjacent to a concrete sidewalk, masonry wall or a building,
a raised concrete curb need not be provided in the adjacent area.
      b.   Open Space, Public: Five hundred (500) square feet of open space
required for projects less than two (2) acres, and one thousand five hundred
(1,500) SF of open space requirement for projects greater than two (2) acres.
Open space requirement may be satisfied by outdoor dining areas, plazas, or
other useable outdoor use as approved by the director.
      c.   Open Space, Private: one hundred (100) square feet per dwelling unit
will be provided for common recreational-leisure areas, private areas, or a
combination of both. Common recreational space will be located on the same
property as the residential use it serves and must be available exclusively for
the use of all residents of the development. Private useable open space will be
contiguous to the residential units served and screened for privacy. All common
areas will be developed and professionally maintained in accordance with
approved landscape and irrigation plans.
      d.   Lighting: All lighting of the building, landscaping, parking lot, or
similar facilities, must be so shielded and directed as to reflect away from
adjoining properties, particularly adjacent R zoned properties. Security
lighting fixtures are not to be substituted for parking lot or walkway lighting
fixtures and are restricted to lighting loading, storage areas, and similar
service locations. (Ord. 19-1036; amd. Ord. 22-1060; Ord. 23-1069)
9-1H-4: MIXED-USE DESIGN REVIEW:
Exterior Design Review for New Construction, Additions or Expansions to Mixed-
Use Sites: Required Design Criteria: Buildings, additions, or expansions which
result in the addition of one hundred (100) square feet or more of floor area
to a mixed-use site will be subject to major site plan pursuant to Section
9-1C-6-C of the zoning code. (Ord. 19-1036)
9-1H-5: MIXED-USE DESIGN STANDARDS:
Table 9-1H-4 establishes the criteria for intensity, building height, open
space, and other design elements for all Mixed-Use Zone Districts.
 
Table 9-1H-4
Design Criteria for Mixed-Use Zone Districts
                                                                              MU- MU- Additional
Design Criterion                                                              L   M   Development
                                                                                      Requirement
Compatibility with Adjacent Development
New development and improvements to existing properties will be compatible
with the existing character, including the sensitive treatment of perimeter   A   A    
property lines to mitigate impacts on abutting properties.
In areas with identified historic buildings, structures, and sites, the
proposed new development or land activity blends with or complements the      A   A    
historic character.
Windows or similar openings will be oriented to minimize any direct line-of-
sight into adjacent units or onto private patios or backyards adjoining the   A   A    
property line.
Balconies are not allowed on side or rear elevations facing single-family     A   A    
homes.
Building Façades
Multi-unit developments or sites with more than one building will utilize a
consistent or at least stylistically compatible (but not necessarily          A   A    
identical) palette of scale, forms, colors, materials, and textures.
Street wall façades will be architecturally enhanced. This may be
accomplished using arcades, colonnades, recessed entrances, window details,   A   A    
bays, and variation in building materials, color, and other details.
The façade detailing of mixed-use buildings will visually differentiate
ground-floor uses from upper-story uses. The base will visibly anchor the
building to the ground with a treatment of higher quality materials. The      A   A    
façade detailing of commercial or retail entries will be differentiated from
residential entries.
Design Features
Private balconies will be screened by translucent or opaque materials that
shield visibility of personal items from public view. Storage of items other  A   A    
than chairs, tables, pots, and plants is not allowed.
All primary ground-floor common entries for individual dwelling unit or
commercial entries fronting on streets will be oriented to the street, not to A   A    
the interior or to a parking lot.
All glass windows or glass entrances on the first and second stories will be
either clear or lightly tinted to maximize pedestrian visibility of building  A   A    
interiors from the sidewalk area. Mirrored, highly reflective, or densely
tinted glass will be prohibited for use in windows and entrances.
Projecting features, such as balconies, porches, bays, and dormer windows
will be used to create distinction between units and provide "eyes" on the    N/A A    
street.
Buildings having 100 feet or more of street frontage will be designed to      N/A A    
provide façade articulation and roofs of varying heights.
Open Space
Open space areas will have no parking, driveway, or right-of-way              A   A    
encroachments.
All common areas will be improved as either active or passive facilities,
with landscaping or hardscape elements designed to serve the residents of the A   A    
project.
Common recreational space will be located on the same property as the
residential use it serves and will be available exclusively for the use of    A   A    
all residents of the development.
Where a rooftop is used for common recreational space, the rooftop will
incorporate landscaping, decorative paving and materials, and amenities.
Rooftop recreational areas are only allowed on the first or second story.     N/A A    
Mechanical equipment storage areas will not be counted toward meeting the
requirement.
Private useable open space will be contiguous to the residential units served A   A    
and screened for privacy.
Public plazas, pocket parks, outdoor dining, promenades, public art, and
other outdoor public amenities will be designed to activate ground-floor uses N/A A    
of mixed-use buildings to engage residents and visitors.
Open spaces will be appropriately landscaped and provide adequate shade
through the placement of trees or other shade devices, including umbrellas,   A   A    
awnings, trellises, and canopies that are integrated into the building or
over the open space.
Circulation and Parking
New development provides for adequate access and off-street parking           A   A    
arrangements.
Parking structures will be architecturally integrated with the project design
and will be screened from view at street level by architectural detailing,    N/A A    
façade treatment, artwork, landscaping, or similar visual features to enhance
the street façade.
Active Transportation
New development will accommodate and facilitate alternatives to               A   A    
transportation by automobile, including bicycle and pedestrian facilities.
All likely pedestrian routes will be identified in the design phase and
provided for in the development. These include linkages to individual         A   A    
buildings, neighboring properties (when compatible), and existing or planned
sidewalks along public roads, as appropriate.
Bicycle and pedestrian circulation facilities will provide connections to     A   A    
surrounding uses and to existing/planned pedestrian and bicycle networks.
Fences and Walls
Fences and walls will be of the same or compatible material, in terms of      A   A    
texture and quality, as the material and color of the principal building.
Loading and Storage
All loading areas and facilities are located at the side or rear of a         A   A    
principal building.
Equipment and materials must be stored within completely enclosed buildings,  A   A    
unless otherwise permitted.
Trash enclosures will be constructed of sturdy, durable, opaque materials     A   A    
(with trash receptacles screened from view.)
Utility and Mechanical Equipment
All utility and mechanical equipment will be placed in locations that are not A   A    
exposed to view from the street or will be screened from view.
Satellite dishes will be located away from public view.                       A   A    
Screening elements will be an integral part of the building's design.         A   A    
A = Applicable
N/A = Not Applicable         
 
(Ord. 19-1036)
ARTICLE I. COMMERCIAL ZONE DISTRICTS
SECTION:
9-1I-1: Commercial District Designations
9-1I-2: Commercial Land Uses And Permit Requirements
9-1I-3: Commercial Development Standards
9-1I-4: Commercial Design Review
9-1I-5: Commercial Design Standards
9-1I-1: COMMERCIAL DISTRICT DESIGNATIONS:
A.   Neighborhood Commercial: The intent of the Neighborhood Commercial (NC)
District is to provide small-scale retail and service uses for nearby
residential areas. Dimensional requirements and design standards of the NC
district are intended to promote compatibility with surrounding residential
areas and accommodate pedestrian use and access. Strip commercial development,
designed primarily to accommodate vehicular access and parking, and development
that is insensitive or incompatible with the scale and character of the
surrounding residential areas, is discouraged in this district.
B.   Downtown Core: The intent of the Downtown Core (DC) District is to
establish a thriving pedestrian-oriented commercial and mixed-use district,
which concentrates comparative shopping and service opportunities in a
centrally located area along Las Tunas Drive. Buildings will be located close
to the street with vehicle access and driveways discouraged on Las Tunas Drive.
C.   Las Tunas Commercial: The intent of the Las Tunas (LTC) District is to
promote a mix of uses supportive to Temple City residents and to support the
Downtown Core. The district would include medical and professional offices,
personal services, and retail. The form and use of development is compatible
with the Downtown Core (DC) District but allows for buildings to be set back
from the street to provide landscaping and public space. (Ord. 19-1036)
9-1I-2: COMMERCIAL LAND USES AND PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
A.   Permit Requirements:
Table 9-1I-1 provides the name of the permit, and location of procedure for the
permit, for each land use in
Table 9-1I-2.
 
Table 9-1I-1
Permit Requirement Labels for
Table 9-1I-2
Label Permit Requirement
Y     Permitted Use
U     Permitted on Upper Floors Only
A     Accessory to Permitted Use Only
C     Conditional Use Permit
C/U   Conditional Use Upper Floors Only
T     Temporary Use Permit
N     Not Permitted
 
B.   Standards For All Commercial Zoning District Land Uses: A conditional use
permit consistent with Article C of the Zoning Code shall apply to any land
uses in any commercial zoning district that include one (1) or more of the
following:
   1.   Any land use with a drive through.
   2.   Any land use with hours of operation past 10:00 p.m. or before 6:00
a.m.
   3.   Any land use that includes live entertainment.
C.   Standards For Specific Land Uses in Commercial Zoning Districts: Where the
last column in
Table 9-1I-2 includes an Additional Use Requirement Code Reference, the
requirements of the referenced section shall apply to the use in addition to
all other applicable provisions of this Zoning Code.
 
Table 9-1I-2
Land Uses and Permit Requirements for Commercial Zone Districts
Commercial Land Uses                      NC LTC DC  Additional Use Requirement
Adult day health care centers             C  C   N
Adult oriented businesses                 N  N   N   9-1T-6
Aerobic, gymnasiums, health clubs,        C  C   N
reducing and tanning salons
Alcohol sales, offsite consumption        C  C   C
Ambulance service                         N  N   N
Antique shop (collectibles and items      Y  N   N
intended for decorating only).
Any public utility facility for which a
building permit is not required pursuant  C  N   N
to the City's building regulations
Assembly uses - religions facilities,     C  C   C/U
lodges, clubs, cultural centers, etc.
Auto title loans                          N  N   N
Automobile repair garages (all operations
to be conducted within an enclosed        C  C   N
building)
Bail and surety bond businesses           C  C   N
Banks, Finance Services and Institutions  Y  Y   Y
Banquet facility                          C  C   C
Bars                                      C  C   C
Bowling alley, billiard parlor, and       C  C   C
similar indoor recreational uses.
Business and professional offices         Y  Y   U
Check cashing services                    C  C   N
Chiropractic or acupuncture office or     Y  Y   U
studio
Government offices, facilities and parks  C  C   C
Collection facility                       C  C   N
Commercial recreation, indoor -
Billiards, bowling alley, skating rink,   C  C   C
children's play spaces, etc.
Commercial recreation, outdoor - Tennis   N  C   N
clubs, batting cage, driving range, etc.
Community care facility/large             C  N   N
Community garden                          T  N   N
Condominiums, non-residential             N  N   N
Consignment store                         Y  Y   C
Convenience stores                        C  C   Y
Day spas (facials, waxing, skin
treatments, and similar services not      C  C   C
including massage)
Education - Business, trade, vocational   C  C   C/U
school
Education - Tutoring, fitness, dance,
art, martial arts or music classes where  C  C   C
the ratio of students to teachers exceeds
2 to 1
Education - Tutoring, fitness, dance,
art, martial arts, or music classes where Y  Y   C
the ratio of students to teachers does
not exceed 2 to 1
Education- day care, pre-school,
elementary, middle, junior high, high     C  C   N
school, or college/university
Emergency shelter                         N  N   N   9-1T-5
Expansion of uses utilizing off-street    N  N   C
public parking
Farmers market                            T  C   C
Fortune teller                            C  C   N
Fuel/service station                      C  N   N
Furniture repair and upholstery, fabrics  Y  Y   N
and supplies.
Game arcades (including Internet gaming)  C  C   C
Garage sales on non-residentially used    N  N   N   9-1C-6 .F
properties
Garage sales on residentially used        T  T   T   9-1C-6 .F
properties
Gun shops                                 C  C   N
Gymnasiums & health clubs                 C  C   C
Hookah/smoke lounge                       N  N   N
Hospital/medical facility                 C  C   N
Hotel/motel                               C  C   C
Housing for special needs                 N  N   N   9-1T-3
Karaoke                                   A  A   A
Karaoke, primary use                      N  N   N
Laundromats (coin operated)               C  C   N
Library or museum                         C  C   C
Markets, wholesale                        N  C   Y
Marijuana facilities and activities       N  N   N   9-1T-10
Massage business or establishment         C  C   N   9-1T-12
Mortuaries and funeral homes              N  N   N
Multiple tenant merchant mart             N  C   C
Non-residential tenant space or unit
shared by more than one (1)               C  C   C
independently-owned business
Office, general                           Y  Y   U
Office, medical                           Y  Y   U
Outdoor fundraising                       T  T   T   9-1C-6 .F
Outdoor sales                             C  C   C
Outpatient clinics                        C  C   N
Parking Lots/garages (public and          C  C   C
commercial)
Pawn shop                                 N  N   N
Personal services (barber/beauty shop,
diet/nutrition center, locksmith, mail
box rental, nail/manicure shop, bicycle   Y  Y   Y
sales/repair, tailor, shoe repair,
tanning salon, travel agent)
Pest control and exterminators, retail
sales and office, but no storage of pest
control or exterminating contractor       Y  Y   U
vehicles, equipment, or storage of bulk
chemicals or pesticides.
Public food market                        C  C   C   See
                                                     9-1T-20
Recording studios                         C  C   C/U
Restaurant utilizing public parking       N  C   C
Restaurant with onsite alcohol            C  C   Y
consumption
Restaurant with onsite parking            Y  Y   Y
Restaurants, fast-food utilizing public
parking. Including bakeries, ice cream    N  C   C
shops, delis, coffee and tea stores, and
donut shops, that have seating
Restaurants, fast-food with onsite
parking. Including bakeries, ice cream    Y  Y   Y
shops, delis, coffee and tea stores, and
donut shops, that have seating
Retail sales, 10,000 square feet or       C  C   C
greater
Retail sales, under 10,000 square feet    Y  Y   Y
Reverse vending machine                   A  A   A
Seasonal sales on non-residentially used  T  T   T   9-1C-6 .F
properties
Seasonal sales on residentially used      N  N   N   9-1C-6 .F
properties
Self storage                              N  N   N
Sidewalk dining                           A  A   A   See standards in Article
                                                     9-1T-18 .
Short Term Rentals                        N  N   N
Single room occupancy (SRO) building      N  C   N
Storage containers delivered to a home    T  T   T   9-1C-6 .F
(Pods)
Storage or shipping container over one
hundred twenty (120) square feet in size  T  T   T
or six feet (6') in height.
Tattoo parlor                             C  C   N
Taxidermists.                             Y  N   N
Temporary On-Site Construction Yards and  T  T   T   9-1C-6 .F
Trailers
Thrift stores                             C  C   N
Unattended collection box                 Y  Y   N
Vehicle - Body Shop                       N  N   N
Vehicle - Full Service or Self-Service    C  C   N
Car Wash
Vehicle - Rental                          C  C   N
Vehicle - Repair                          C  C   N
Vehicle - sales                           C  C   N
Veterinary clinic, animal hospitals, and  Y  Y   N
commercial kennels (indoors only)
Veterinary clinic, animal hospitals, and  C  C   N
commercial kennels (outdoors and indoors)
Wireless Communication Facilities                    9-1T-11
 
(Ord. 19-1036; amd. Ord. 20-1047; Ord. 21-1056; Ord. 22-1060)
9-1I-3: COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
A.   Commercial Development Standards:
 
Table 9-1I-3
Allowed Uses and Permit Requirements for Commercial Zone Districts
Development Standard           NC    LTC   DC    Additional Development
                                                 Requirement
Minimum lot area (square feet) 5,000 5,000 5,000
Lot width, minimum (feet)      50    50    50
Lot depth, minimum (feet)      100   100   100
Building Setbacks
Front, minimum/maximum (feet)  5/101 5/151 0/101
Side, minimum (feet)2          02    02    02
Rear, minimum (feet)3          03    03    03
Height, maximum (feet)4        404   404   454   Site dev. plan
Floor Area Ratio5              0.505 0.755 1.05
1    Maximum front yard setbacks.
2    5-foot setback required if the side of the commercial property shares a
property line with a residential-zoned property.
3   15-foot rear setback required if rear of the commercial property shares a
property line with a residential-zoned property.
4    No portion of a building may exceed two stories and 30 feet within 20
feet of an R-zone.
5    Commercial Unit: No commercial unit shall contain less than eight hundred
(800) square feet of floor area.
 
B.   Commercial Property Development Standards:
   1.   Street Frontage Requirements:
      a.   Minimum Street Frontage: The minimum street frontage for any
building or tenant in the DC and LTC Zone is twenty-five feet (25').
      b.   Storefront Appearance: New buildings in the LTC or DC that are more
than fifty feet (50') in width shall be developed in such a way as to appear as
individual storefronts not exceeding fifty feet (50') in width. The
differentiation will be achieved through means including, but not limited to
(a) incorporating different architectural styles, (b) using a variety of design
elements (for example windows, doors, pop-outs, recesses, wing walls, awnings,
canopies, and parapets) (c) using different building materials and colors, and
(d) using different sign designs, materials, colors, and illumination.
      c.   Storefront Must Face the Street: Buildings that have parking in the
rear, including public parking areas, must not be subdivided so as to create
one tenant space that faces the parking area in the rear and a separate tenant
space on the public street.
   2.   Depth of Non-Residential Tenant Spaces: New, non-residential tenant
spaces must have a minimum useable depth of forty feet (40') along sixty
percent (60%) of the length of the building frontage and in no case be less
than twenty feet (20') in depth. On a corner lot where storefronts and
commercial uses are required, storefronts and commercial spaces shall turn and
wrap around the corner for a minimum length of twenty feet (20'). Where
storefronts and useable commercial space are not required, storefronts and
commercial uses at the ground floor shall have a minimum depth of twenty feet
(20').
   3.   Minimum Non-Residential Unit Size: The minimum size of a new non-
residential tenant space is eight hundred (800) square feet. The minimum width
of a new, non-residential tenant space is 25 feet. These requirements apply to
units previously subdivided.
   4.   Screening of Equipment, Refuse Storage and Loading Areas:
      a.   Exterior Storage Areas, Loading Docks, Loading Areas: All exterior
storage areas, loading docks, and loading areas shall be screened from view by
a solid fence, wall or mature landscaped materials whenever possible. When
screening of loading docks and loading areas is not possible, the facilities
shall be integrated into the overall design of the building.
      b.   Mechanical Equipment And Duct Work: All ground and rooftop
mechanical equipment, including dish antennas, shall be placed behind a
permanent parapet wall and shall be completely screened from all ground level
view. No mechanical equipment shall be exposed on the wall surface of a
building. Gutters and downspouts are not to project from the vertical surface
of the building. Vents, louvres, exposed flashing, tanks, stacks, overhead
doors, rolling and “man” service doors are to be treated in a manner consistent
with the color scheme of the building. Screening shall be as high as the
highest portion of the equipment or ducting and shall be permanently
maintained.
      c.   All mechanical heating, air conditioning, refrigeration or similar
devices, will be screened and shall be operated and maintained in such a manner
as to meet the General Sound Level Standards of Section
9-1P-3 of this zoning code, and prevent smoke, dust, etc., from crossing the
property line shared with the R zoned properties.
      d.   Refuse Storage: Within parking district areas, businesses shall
utilize the common trash enclosure areas unless specifically permitted to do
otherwise by the planning commission. All outdoor trash, garbage and refuse
containers shall be screened on all sides from public view by a minimum six
foot (6') high concrete, or masonry decorative block wall, and the opening
provided with a gate of a durable wood or comparable material. Refuse storage
areas shall be so located as to be easily accessible for trash pick-up.
   5.   Landscaping, Lighting and Pedestrian Areas:
      a.   Landscaping: All areas not utilized for building area and/or
parking/circulation will be improved with landscaping and improved pedestrian
surfaces. A minimum of five percent (5%) of the site shall be landscaped.
         (1)   Landscaping shall consist of a combination of trees, shrubs, and
ground cover with careful consideration given to the eventual size and spread,
susceptibility to disease and pests, durability, and adaptability to existing
soil and climatic conditions.
         (2)   A landscaping and irrigation plan shall be submitted for the
review and approval of the planning manager. All planted areas shall be
surrounded by a concrete curb six inches (6") above final grade or above
asphalt level of the parking lot. However, when such planted areas are adjacent
to a concrete sidewalk, masonry wall or a building, a raised concrete curb need
not be provided in the adjacent area.
      b.   Lighting: Lighting shall be provided in all parking areas, including
loading and storage areas. Lighting shall be energy-efficient and shielded or
recessed so that direct glare and reflections are confined with the boundaries
of the site and shall be directed downward and away from adjoining properties,
particularly adjacent R zoned properties.
         (1)   When lighting for new or rehabilitated parking facilities are
proposed, a lighting plan shall be prepared and submitted to the Director for
approval. The lighting plan shall provide sufficient information to examine the
degree to which exterior night lighting affects an adjacent street, property
owner or community. Such plan shall consider the light source, level of
illumination, hours of illumination and need for illumination in relation to
the effects of the lighting on adjacent streets, and property owners. For
uniformity in lighting and prevention of shadows, an average horizontal
luminance level of two (2) foot-candles with a 4:1 uniformity ratio over the
surface parking area shall be used.
         (2)   A photometric plan shall depict the anticipated light levels
generated by all exterior lights across the site and ten feet (10') beyond the
property lines. The standard for which the measurement is taken will be from
the property line as measured at six feet in height or above any boundary wall,
whichever is higher. In no case shall the lighting measurement exceed 0.5 foot-
candles. (Ord. 19-1036; amd. Ord. 22-1060)
9-1I-4: COMMERCIAL DESIGN REVIEW:
Exterior Design Review for New Buildings, Additions or Expansions: Required
Design Criteria: Buildings, additions, or expansions which result in the
addition of one hundred square feet or more of floor area will be subject to
review and approval by the director consistent with the requirements shown in
Table 9-1N-4. The director will review plans to ensure they are in accordance
with the design guidelines as adopted by the planning commission and city
council. (Ord. 19-1036)
9-1I-5: COMMERCIAL DESIGN STANDARDS:
A.   Exterior Design Review For New Building, Additions Or Expansions: Required
Design Criteria: Buildings, additions, or expansions which result in the
addition of one hundred (100) square feet or more of floor area shall be
subject to review and approval by the planning commission consistent with the
requirements shown in
Table 9-1I-4. The planning commission shall review plans to ensure they are in
accordance with the design guidelines as adopted by the planning commission and
city council.
 
Table 9-1I-4
Design Criteria for Commercial Zoning Districts
Design Criterion                  NC  LTC DC   Additional Development
                                               Requirement
Compatibility. New development
and improvements to existing
properties shall be compatible
with the existing character,      A   A   A     
including the sensitive treatment
of perimeter property lines to
mitigate impacts on abutting
properties.
Multiple Buildings-Compatibility.
Multi-unit developments or sites
with more than one building will
utilize a consistent or at least  A   A   A     
stylistically compatible (but not
necessarily identical) palette of
scale, forms, colors, materials,
and textures.
Historic Character. In areas with
identified historic buildings,
structures, and sites, the
proposed new development or land  A   A   A     
activity blends with or
complements the historic
character.
Alternative Transportation. New
development will accommodate and
facilitate alternatives to        A   A   A     
transportation by automobile,
including bicycle and pedestrian
facilities.
Pedestrian Access. All likely
pedestrian routes will be
identified in the design phase
and provided for in the
development. These include        A   A   A     
linkages to individual buildings,
neighboring properties (when
compatible), and existing or
planned sidewalks along public
roads, as appropriate.
Open Spaces. Small public open
spaces (e.g., plazas, pocket
parks, and squares) are           N/A A   A     
integrated into projects of
sufficient size (i.e., two acres
or more).
Access. The development provides
for adequate access and off-      A   A   N/ A  
street parking arrangements.
Driveways. New driveways will not A   A   A     
be allowed onto Las Tunas Drive.
Parking. At grade tuck under
parking must not be visible from  A   A   A     
the street.
Parking in Setbacks. No parking
is allowed in the front, side, or A   A   A     
street corner side setback.
Appearance/Parking. The
development layout avoids the
appearance of strip commercial
development, including the
specific provision that no more   A   A   A     
than half of any required parking
is located between the public
street and the principal building
line.
Parking Screen. Where parking
areas are located between a
public street and the principal
building, vegetation, walls,
fences, berms, or some            A   A   N/ A  
combination is used to screen the
view from the street to parking
areas, except for approved drives
and lot entrances.
Storage. Equipment and materials
must be stored within completely  A   A   A     
enclosed buildings, unless
otherwise permitted.
Fences and Walls. Fences and
walls shall be of the same or
compatible material, in terms of  A   A   N/ A  
texture and quality, as the
material and color of the
principal building.
Loading. All loading areas and
facilities are located at the     A   A   A     
side or rear of a principal
building.
Waste Containers. Trash
enclosures shall be constructed
of sturdy, durable, opaque        A   A   A     
materials (with trash receptacles
screened from view.)
A = Applicable
N/A = Not Applicable
 
(Ord. 19-1036)
ARTICLE J. INDUSTRIAL ZONE DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-1J-1: Industrial Designation
9-1J-2: Industrial Uses And Permit Requirements
9-1J-3: Industrial Development Standards
9-1J-4: Industrial Design Review
9-1J-5: Industrial Design Standards
9-1J-1: INDUSTRIAL DESIGNATION:
The intent of the Industrial (IN) Zone District is to permit the manufacture of
goods, conduct of research, analytical businesses, professional services,
technology, telecommunications, and distribution of products. (Ord. 19-1036)
9-1J-2: INDUSTRIAL USES AND PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
A.   Permit Requirements:
Table 9-1J-1 provides the name of the permit, and location of procedure for the
permit, for each land use shown in
Table 9-1J-2.
 
Table 9-1J-1
Permit Requirement Labels for
Table 9-1J-2
Label Permit Requirement
Y     Permitted Use
C     Conditional Use Permit
S     Site Plan Review, Minor
N     Not Permitted
 
B.   Standards for Industrial Zone Land Uses: A conditional use permit
consistent with Article C of this Zoning Code will apply to any land uses in
industrial zoning districts that include one (1) or more of the following:
   1.   Any land use with a drive through.
   2.   Any land use with hours of operation past 10:00 p.m. or before 6:00
a.m.
   3.   Any land use that includes live entertainment, except as otherwise
provided for in the municipal code.
   4.   Any land use that will require outside storage or operation.
C.   Standards for Specific Land Uses in Industrial Zones: Where the last
column in
Table 9-1J-2 includes an Additional Use Requirement Code Reference, the
requirements of the referenced section will apply to the use in addition to all
other applicable provisions of this Zoning Code.
D.   Site Plan: A site plan will be required prior to the issuance of a
building permit, or a certificate of occupancy, if no building permit is
required, for the development of any I zone property which is required to
comply with the special development standards as hereinabove set forth.
 
Table 9-1J-2
Land Uses and Permit Requirements for Industrial Zone District
Land Uses                         Permit Requirement Additional Use Requirement
Accessory buildings and           Y
structures
Adult Oriented Businesses         Y                  9-1T-6
Automobile assembly, body and
fender works, dismantling and
used parts storage when operated  Y
and maintained wholly within an
entirely enclosed building
Automobile forwarding             Y
Automobile painting, providing
all painting, sanding and baking  Y
will be conducted wholly within
an enclosed building
Automobile steam cleaning
conducted as a primary use,       Y
within an enclosed building
Collection Facility (CUP required
in all commercial and Industrial  C
districts and prohibited in all
other zones)
Commercial unit or Industrial
unit which is shared by more than C
one independently owned business
enterprise
Commercial unit or Industrial
unit which is subdivided or split C
into two (2) or more units
Condominiums, industrial/         N
Industrial
Contractors' storage yards        Y
Emergency Shelters                Y
Garage sales on non-residentially N                  9-1C-9.F
used properties
Garage sales on residentially     T                  9-1C-9.F
used properties
Laundries, commercial (building   Y
less than 5,000 sq. ft.)
Lumberyards.                      C
Machine shops.                    Y
Machinery storage yards           Y
Industrial uses (building less
than 10,000 sq. ft.) that does    Y
not use significant amounts of
hazardous materials.
Industrial uses of any size that
use significant amounts of        C
hazardous materials.
Material recycling plant          C
Non-storefront, delivery-only                        See
medical cannabis retail           CUP                9-1T-22
businesses
Off street parking for
commercial, Industrial or         C
institutional uses on any R zoned
property
Outdoor fundraising               T                  9-1C-6 .F
Outdoor Storage                   T
Packaging businesses, Retail and  Y
Personal Services
Parcel delivery terminals         C
Public food market                C                  See
                                                     9-1T-20
Public utility service center     Y
Seasonal sales on non-            T                  9-1C-6 .F
residentially used properties
Seasonal sales on residentially   N                  9-1C-6 .F
used properties
Self storage                      N
Short Term Rentals                N
Storage, commercial. Commercial
storage (including more than 72
hours parking) of recreational    N
vehicles, transit and
transportation
Storage containers delivered to a T                  9-1C-6 .F
home (Pods)
Temporary on-site construction    T                  9-1C-6 .F
yards and trailers
Testing laboratories              Y
Tobacco/e-cigarette store         C
Towing service, provided all
storage, including any overnight
storage of vehicles, will be      Y
behind a six foot (6') high solid
wall or within a completely
enclosed building
Transfer, moving and storage of   Y
furniture and household goods.
Truck and trailer rental concerns Y
Truck repairing, overhauling and  Y
service
Truck transportation yard (except Y
truck terminals)
Truck washing and cleaning        Y
Unattended Collection Boxes       Y
Warehouse, wholesale and storage  Y
Welding shops.                    Y
Wireless Communications           See Section
Facilities                        9-1T-11
 
(Ord. 19-1036; amd. Ord. 21-1056; Ord. 22-1060; Ord. 25-1081 U)
9-1J-3: INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
A.   Industrial Development Standards:
 
Table 9-1J-3
Development Standards for Industrial Zone District
                                             Additional Development Requirement
Development Standard           I      I/RES1  
Minimum Lot Area (square feet) 10,000 10,000  
Minimum Lot Width (feet)       75     75      
Minimum Lot Depth (feet)       100    100     
Setbacks2                                     
Front, minimum (feet)          5      10      
Side, minimum (feet)           0      10      
Rear, minimum (feet)           0      20      
Corner, minimum (feet)         5      10      
Height, maximum (feet)         50     35      
Floor Area Ratio3              0.75   0.5     
1   Development standards for portions of buildings adjacent to residentially
zoned properties. See section B.2 for more standards.
2   Industrial Unit: No Industrial unit will contain less than seven hundred
fifty (750) square feet of floor area.
 
B.   Industrial Property Development Standards: When any lot in the I zone
fronts on a street, the opposite side of which is zoned for R purposes, or
abuts any R zoned property, the following standards will be observed in the
construction and maintenance of buildings, structures and uses to be located
thereon:
   1.   Minimum Non-Residential Unit Size: The minimum size of a new non-
residential tenant space is eight hundred (800) square feet. The minimum width
of a new, non-residential tenant space is 25 feet. These requirements apply to
units previously subdivided.
   2.   Screening of Equipment, Refuse Storage and Loading Areas:
      a.   Exterior storage areas, loading docks, loading areas: All exterior
storage areas, loading docks, and loading areas will be screened from view by a
solid fence, wall or mature landscaped materials.
      b.   Mechanical equipment and duct work: All ground and rooftop
mechanical equipment, including dish antennas, will be placed behind a
permanent parapet wall and will be completely screened from all ground level
view. No mechanical equipment will be exposed on the wall surface of a
building. Gutters and downspouts are not to project from the vertical surface
of the building. Vents, louvres, exposed flashing, tanks, stacks, overhead
doors, rolling and "man" service doors are to be integrated into the
architecture of the building. Screening will be as high as the highest portion
of the equipment or ducting and will be permanently maintained.
      c.   All mechanical heating, air conditioning, refrigeration or similar
devices, maintained and operated on the exterior of buildings located in the I
Zone, will be screened and will be operated and maintained in such a manner as
to meet the General Sound Level Standards of Section
9-1P-3 of this zoning code, and prevent smoke, dust, etc., from crossing the
property line shared with the R zoned properties.
      d.   Refuse Storage: All outdoor trash, garbage and refuse containers
will be screened on all sides from public view by a minimum six-foot-high
concrete, or masonry decorative block wall, and the opening provided with a
metal gate. Refuse storage areas will be so located as to be easily accessible
for trash pick-up.
   3.   Development Standards for Industrial Adjacent to Residential: When any
lot in the I zone fronts on a street, the opposite side of which is zoned for R
purposes, or abuts any R zoned property, the following standards will be
observed in the construction and maintenance of buildings, structures and uses
to be located thereon:
      a.   Vacant Land: All vacant land on the lot or parcel of land and the
parkway area or land used in conjunction with permitted uses on such
properties, will be surfaced, landscaped or otherwise maintained in a clean,
dust free and orderly manner. For the purpose of this provision, surfacing of
concrete, asphalt, clean sand or gravel, placed on soil treated for weed
control or appropriate landscaping will be deemed to comply with this
provision.
      b.   Change in Grade: Where it is contemplated to change the grade or
elevation of such I zoned properties, in excess of three feet (3') vertically,
those portions of the property abutting R zoned properties, a grading plan
therefor will be submitted to the city engineer, in order to obtain a grading
permit, and will show fencing, landscaping, barricades, retaining walls, and
other protective devices, designed to protect abutting R zoned properties.
      c.   Loading Docks, Storage, Etc.: Loading docks, loading areas, surface
yards, outdoor storage or sales area, when permitted, and all trash, rubbish,
or garbage receptacles or containers, which are located in a direct line of
vision from any portion of adjacent R zoned properties, will be enclosed or
screened or be separated from such R zoned properties by a view obscuring fence
or wall, not less than six feet (6') in height, measured from the finished
grade of I zoned lot. No outdoor storage will be permitted to extend above the
height of such fence or wall.
      d.   Sign: All signs, advertising structures and the like, located upon
such properties, and all driveways to and from such properties, will be located
remote from such R zoned properties, when such R zoned properties are located
on the same side of the street as said I zoned properties.
      e.   Lighting: Lighting will be provided in all parking areas, including
loading and storage areas. Lighting will be energy-efficient and shielded or
recessed so that direct glare and reflections are confined with the boundaries
of the site and will be directed downward and away from adjoining properties,
particularly adjacent R zoned properties.
         (1)   When lighting for new or rehabilitated parking facilities are
proposed, a lighting plan will be prepared and submitted to the director for
approval. The lighting plan will provide enough information to examine the
degree to which exterior night lighting affects an adjacent street, property
owner or community. Such plan will consider the light source, level of
illumination, hours of illumination and need for illumination in relation to
the effects of the lighting on adjacent streets, and property owners. For
uniformity in lighting and prevention of shadows, an average horizontal
luminance level of two footcandles with a 4:1 uniformity ratio over the surface
parking area will be used.
         (2)   A photometric plan will depict the anticipated light levels
generated by all exterior lights across the site and ten feet beyond the
property lines. The standard for which the measurement is taken will be from
the property line as measured at six feet (6') in height or above any boundary
wall, whichever is higher. In no case will the lighting measurement exceed 0.5
footcandles.
      f.   Landscaping: All areas not utilized for building area and/or
parking/circulation will be improved with landscaping and improved pedestrian
surfaces. Landscaping will consist of a combination of trees, shrubs, and
ground cover with careful consideration given to the eventual size and spread,
susceptibility to disease and pests, durability, and adaptability to existing
soil and climatic conditions. A landscaping and irrigation plan will be
submitted for the review and approval of the director. All planted areas will
be surrounded by a concrete curb six inches (6") above final grade or above
asphalt level of the parking lot. However, when such planted areas are adjacent
to a concrete sidewalk, masonry wall or a building, a raised concrete curb need
not be provided in the adjacent area. (Ord. 19-1036; amd. Ord. 22-1060)
9-1J-4: INDUSTRIAL DESIGN REVIEW:
Exterior Design Review for New Buildings, Additions or Expansions: Required
Design Criteria: Buildings, additions, or expansions which result in the
addition of one hundred (100) square feet or more of floor area will be subject
to review and approval by the director consistent with the requirements shown
in
Table 9-1J-4. The director will review plans to ensure they are in accordance
with the design guidelines as adopted by the planning commission and city
council. (Ord. 19-1036)
9-1J-5: INDUSTRIAL DESIGN STANDARDS:
Table 9-1J-4 establishes the criteria for building orientation, building
articulation, and other design elements for the Industrial Zone District.
 
Table 9-1J-4
Design Criteria for Industrial Zone District
A = Applicable N/A = Not Applicable
                                                              I    Additional
Design Criterion                                              Zone Development
                                                                   Requirement
Site Design
Buildings are oriented on the site to maximize daylighting
opportunities and harvest natural light within interior
workspaces. Buildings will utilize opportunities to provide   A
operable clerestory windows to allow for ventilation and
indirect lighting.
Promote pedestrian activity by placing entrances at grade
level or slightly above, and unobstructed from view from the  A
public right-of-way. Avoid sunken entryways below street
level.
Compatibility with Adjacent Development
New development and improvements to existing properties will
be compatible with the existing character, including the      A
sensitive treatment of perimeter property lines to mitigate
impacts on abutting properties.
In areas with identified historic buildings, structures, and
sites, the proposed new development or land activity blends   A
with or complements the historic character.
Large industrial buildings with multiple tenants will provide
multiple entries at street frontages to improve site design   A
flexibility and options for building locations.
Ensure that new buildings are compatible in scale, massing,
style, and/or architectural materials with existing
structures in the surrounding neighborhood. In older          A
neighborhoods, new developments will likewise respect the
character of existing buildings with regards to height,
scale, style, and architectural materials.
Create height and visual transitions between industrial
districts and adjacent commercial and residential
neighborhoods. Stepping back upper floors of industrial       A
structures will match those of adjacent commercial or
residential structures.
Design Features
All glass windows or glass entrances on the first and second
stories will be either clear or lightly tinted to maximize
pedestrian visibility of building interiors from the sidewalk N/A
area. Mirrored, highly reflective, or densely tinted glass
will be prohibited for use in windows and entrances.
Buildings having 100 feet or more of street frontage will be
designed to provide façade articulation and roofs of varying N/A
heights.
Open Space
Open spaces will be appropriately landscaped and provide
adequate shade through the placement of trees or other shade
devices, including umbrellas, awnings, trellises, and         A
canopies that are integrated into the building or over the
open space.
All common areas will be improved as either active or passive N/A
facilities, with landscaping or hardscape elements designed.
Public plazas, pocket parks, outdoor dining, promenades,
public art, and other outdoor public amenities will be        N/A
designed to activate ground-floor uses to engage residents
and visitors.
Circulation and Parking
New industrial development provides for adequate access and   A
off-street parking arrangements.
Bicycle and pedestrian circulation facilities will provide
connections to surrounding uses and to existing/planned       A
pedestrian and bicycle networks.
Landscaping
Utilize landscaping to add texture and visual interest at the
street level. Landscaping will not create a barrier between   A
pedestrians and the building frontage or views into buildings
at the ground floor.
Utilize landscaping between the street and front property
line walls to provide a buffer and planted with shade trees,
climbing vines, hedges, or similar living plant material.     A
Avoid uninterrupted walls and/or fences by providing a
landscape buffer.
Loading and Storage
Screen outdoor storage with building materials consistent
with the architectural character of the main building.        A
Materials such as sheet metal and chain link or barbed wire
fences are not allowed.
All loading areas and facilities will be located at the side  A
or rear of a principal building.
Equipment and materials must be stored within completely      A
enclosed buildings, unless otherwise permitted.
Trash enclosures will be constructed of sturdy, durable,      A
opaque materials (with trash receptacles screened from view).
 
(Ord. 19-1036)
ARTICLE K. INSTITUTIONAL AND OPEN SPACE ZONE
SECTION:
9-1K-1: Institutional And Open Space Zone
9-1K-2: Institutional And Open Space Zone Permit Requirements
9-1K-3: Institutional And Open Space Standards
9-1K-1: INSTITUTIONAL AND OPEN SPACE ZONE:
The Institutional Zone and Open Space Zone is intended to accommodate public,
semi-public, and institutional uses, including but not limited to offices and
facilities used by federal, state, and local government; special districts;
public schools; hospitals; and other public agencies and public utilities. This
zone implements the General Plan Institutional designations.
It also is intended to be used to accommodate active and passive recreational
activities, such as parks and trails, as well as areas used for detention
basins, conservation, sensitive habitat areas, and groundwater recharge basins.
This zone implements the General Plan Open Space designation. (Ord. 19-1036)
9-1K-2: INSTITUTIONAL AND OPEN SPACE ZONE PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
A.   Permit Requirements:
Table 9-1K-2-1 provides the name of the permit, and location of procedure for
the permit, for each land use shown in
Table 9-1K-2-2.
 
Table 9-1K-2-1
Permit Requirement Labels for
Table 9-1K-2-2
Label Permit Requirement
Y     Permitted Use
C     Conditional Use Permit
S     Site Plan Review, Minor
N     Not Permitted
 
B.   Standards for All Land Uses in the Institutional and Open Space Zone: A
conditional use permit consistent with Article C of the Temple City zoning code
will apply to any land uses in the institutional and open space zone that
include one (1) or more of the following:
   1.   Any land use with a drive through.
   2.   Any land use with hours of operation past 10:00 p.m. or before 6:00
a.m.
   3.   Any land use that includes live entertainment.
C.   Standards for Specific Land Uses in the Institutional and Open Space Zone:
Where the last column in
Table 9-1K-2-2 includes an Additional Use Requirement Code Reference, the
requirements of the referenced section will apply to the use in addition to all
other applicable provisions of this zoning code.
 
Table 9-1K-2-2
Land Uses and Permit Requirements for the Institutional and Open Space Zone
District
Land Uses                         Permit Requirement Additional Use Requirement
                                  OS/IS District
Antennas and Wireless
Communication Facilities (Co-     C                   
location and panel)
Assembly/Meeting Facilities,      Y                   
Public
Commercial Uses                   N                   
Cultural Institution              C                   
Garage sales                      N                  9-1C-6 .F
Golf Courses, Public              Y                   
Government Facilities             Y                   
Manufacturing                     N                   
Outdoor fundraising               T                  9-1C-6 .F
Parks and Recreation Facilities,  C                   
Private
Parks and Recreation Facilities,  Y                   
Public
Recharging Stations               Y                   
Residential Uses                  N                   
Schools, Private                  C                   
Seasonal sales not during a       N                  9-1C-6 .F
temporary event
Seasonal sales on non-                               9-1C-6 .F
residentially used properties
Self storage                      N                   
Short Term Rentals                N                   
Storage containers delivered to a                    9-1C-6 .F
home (Pods)
Temporary events at city owned                       9-1C-6 .F
facilities
Temporary on-site construction                       9-1C-6 .F
yards and trailers
Utility Structures and Service    C                   
Facilities
   
(Ord. 19-1036; amd. Ord. 22-1060)
9-1K-3: INSTITUTIONAL AND OPEN SPACE STANDARDS:
A.   Institutional and Open Space Zone Standards:
   1.   For uses requiring a conditional use permit, development standards will
be as specified by the conditional use permit.
   2.   For uses not requiring a conditional use permit, development standards
will be as specified by the site plan review.
 
Table 9-1K-3-1
Development Standards for Institutional and Open Space Zone District
                         I/OS Zone                  Additional Development
                                                    Requirement
Development Standards
Building Height (maximum 40                          
feet)
                         Setbacks to be determined
Building Setbacks        through a CUP or site plan  
                         review.
 
(Ord. 19-1036)
ARTICLE L. PLANNED DEVELOPMENT ZONE DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-1L-1: Purpose And Intent
9-1L-2: Applicability
9-1L-3: Adoption Of A Planned Development Zoning District And Accompanying
Planned Development Plan
9-1L-4: Findings For A Planned Development Zone
9-1L-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose of the Planned Development Zone District is to provide an
opportunity for more efficient use of land, a better living environment, a
superior site plan, and greater excellence of design than is otherwise possible
through strict application of the Zoning Code. The Planned Development Zone is
intended to ensure development that meets high standards of environmental
quality; promotes public health and safety; provides for efficient use of the
city's resources; and furthers the purpose, intent, goals, and policies of the
General Plan. The Planned Development Zone is further intended to facilitate
development that incorporates a program of amenities that exceeds what would
otherwise be required by the Zoning Code, including but not limited to enhanced
landscaping, sustainable development, additional and enhanced open space, and
improvements to public facilities. (Ord. 19-1036)
9-1L-2: APPLICABILITY:
A.   Initiation: An application to reclassify property to a Planned Development
Zone District or to amend an existing Planned Development Zone is processed as
a Zoning Amendment in compliance with section
9-1C-6-I.
B.   Application: A property owner may submit an application for a Zoning
Amendment to change the zone designation of their property to Planned
Development Zone for the purpose of developing a project that would not
otherwise be possible through strict application of the Zoning Code, consistent
with the requirements of this article.
C.   General Plan Consistency: A development project proposed under a Planned
Development Zone must be consistent with the underlying General Plan land use
designation and with all goals and policies of the General Plan, unless the
Zoning Amendment application is accompanied by a General Plan Amendment
application.
D.   Minimum Site Area: A Planned Development Zone may only be requested for a
property or contiguous properties with a gross land area of one (1) acre or
greater.
E.   Planned Development Plan Required: The rezoning of a site to the Planned
Development Zone requires the simultaneous approval of a Planned Development
Plan in compliance with section
9-1L-3.
F.   Major Site Plan Review Required: A Major Site Plan Review must be approved
prior to the issuance of grading or building permits for a project approved
under a Planned Development Zone. Depending upon the nature and phasing of the
project, the Major Site Plan Review application may be processed and approved
in conjunction with the Zoning Amendment application or may be processed
separately at a later time. For phased projects, the Planned Development Plan
may specify the triggers and timing for subsequent Major Site Plan Review
applications. (Ord. 19-1036)
9-1L-3: ADOPTION OF A PLANNED DEVELOPMENT ZONING DISTRICT AND ACCOMPANYING
PLANNED DEVELOPMENT PLAN:
A.   Plan Adopted With Ordinance: The ordinance adopting the Planned
Development Zone must incorporate a Planned Development Plan, which constitutes
the zoning regulations for the property. The council may at its discretion
impose conditions of approval on the development, which are included in the
ordinance and become part of the Planned Development Plan.
B.   Land Use Regulations: The Planned Development Plan must specify all land
use regulations for the Planned Development Zone including all permitted and
conditionally permitted uses. No use is allowed in a Planned Development Zone
that is inconsistent with the underlying General Plan land use designation. The
Planned Development Plan may specify by-right uses as well as uses requiring
subsequent approval of a conditional use permit or temporary use permit.
C.   Development Standards:
   1.   The Planned Development Plan must specify all development standards for
the Planned Development Zone including but not limited to floor area ratio and
residential density.
   2.   The floor area ratio of a Planned Development may not exceed the
maximum floor area ratio allowed by the underlying General Plan land use
designation, unless the applicant is seeking approval of a density bonus.
   3.   The residential density of a Planned Development Zone may not exceed
the maximum density allowed by the underlying General Plan land use
designation, unless the applicant is seeking approval of a density bonus.
D.   Other regulations and procedures. A Planned Development Plan, including
conditions of approval imposed by the council, may specify other regulations
and procedures related to the implementation of the Planned Development Zone.
This may include but is not limited to allowing or requiring phasing of
construction, and triggers or thresholds for subsequent entitlements.
E.   Commission and Council Action:
   1.   The commission will consider an application for reclassification to a
Planned Development Zone in the same manner as a zoning amendment and must, at
the same time, consider the proposed Planned Development Plan.
   2.   The recommendation of the commission regarding the Planned Development
Zone must be accompanied by a recommendation on the Planned Development Plan.
   3.   The council will consider the application and the commission's
recommendation in the same manner as a zoning amendment. The Council's decision
regarding the Planned Development Zone must be accompanied by the decision on
the Planned Development Plan.
F.   Zoning Map Designation: An approved Planned Development Zone will be
indicated on the zoning map by the designation "PD" followed by an assigned
identifying number.
G.   Effective Date of Plan: A Planned Development Plan is effective on the
same date as the effective date of the ordinance enacting the Planned
Development Zone for which it was approved.
H.   Interim Use of Property: The Planned Development Zone is not intended to
prevent the continued use of the property in a manner consistent with the prior
zoning designation until the project approved under the Planned Development
Zone is constructed. Until such time that permits for construction are issued
and work commences on the project authorized by the Planned Development Zone,
the property may continue to be used pursuant to the use and development
standards of the property's prior zone designation, as such standards existed
on the effective date of the ordinance approving the Planned Development Zone.
Provided, however, that no uses or structures on the property may be
established, expanded, or modified in a manner that would require approval of a
discretionary planning entitlement including but not limited to a Major or
Minor Site Plan Review, Conditional Use Permit, or Variance, except as
specified in the Planned Development Plan.
I.   Expiration, Extensions, and Revision:
   1.   Expiration: Approval of a Planned Development Plan expires on the
latest of the following dates, unless permits for construction have been issued
and work has commenced on the project:
      a.   Two (2) years from the effective date of the ordinance approving the
Planned Development Zone; or
      b.   If the project includes a tentative parcel map or tentative tract
map, the expiration date of the tentative map; or
      c.   An expiration date specified in the Planned Development Plan.
   2.   Rezoning: Upon expiration of a Planned Development Plan, the city
manager may initiate a zoning amendment to rezone the property to the zoning
designation that existed prior to the approval of the Planned Development Zone.
   3.   Extension: A request to extend the expiration date of a Planned
Development Plan must be filed in writing with the Department not less than
sixty (60) days and not more than ninety (90) days before expiration of the
Planned Development Plan. The council may at its discretion extend the
expiration date of a Planned Development Plan if it determines that the
applicant has diligently pursued construction of the project since the Planned
Development Plan was approved, or that extenuating circumstances exist that
warrant extension of the expiration date.
   4.   Revision to Approved Plan: An application to revise an approved Planned
Development Plan will be processed and considered in the same manner as a new
application. (Ord. 19-1036)
9-1L-4: FINDINGS FOR A PLANNED DEVELOPMENT ZONE:
A Planned Development Zone may be approved if the council finds that it meets
all of the following findings:
A.   The proposed project will produce a comprehensive development of superior
quality and excellence of design that would not be possible under otherwise
applicable zoning standards. This includes but may not be limited to
appropriate variety of structure placement and orientation, appropriate mix of
structure sizes, high quality architectural design and materials, significantly
increased amounts of landscaping and improved open space, improved solutions
for mobility and to the design and placement of parking and loading facilities,
incorporation of enhanced amenities and/or facilities beneficial to the public,
and appropriate project phasing.
B.   The property is adequate in terms of size, shape, topography, and
circumstances to accommodate the proposed development.
C.   Adequate public services and facilities exist, or will be provided, in
compliance with the approved Planned Development Plan and conditions of
approval, to serve the proposed development. The approval of the proposed
development will not result in a reduction of public services to properties in
the vicinity to be a detriment to public health, safety, and general welfare.
D.   If the development proposes to mix residential and commercial uses whether
done in a vertical or horizontal manner, the residential use is designed in a
manner that it is appropriately buffered from the commercial use and is
provided sufficiently enhanced amenities to create a comfortable and healthy
residential environment and to provide a positive quality of life for the
residents. The enhanced amenities may include but are not limited to additional
landscaping, additional common and/or private open space and amenities, and
private or separated entrances.
E.   The design, location, operating characteristics, and size of the proposed
development will be compatible with the existing and future land uses in the
vicinity, in terms of aesthetic values, character, scale, and view protection.
(Ord. 19-1036)
ARTICLE M. SPECIFIC PLANS
SECTION:
9-1M-1: Application
9-1M-2: Required Contents Of A Specific Plan
9-1M-3: Land Use And Development Standards
9-1M-4: Adopted Specific Plans
9-1M-1: APPLICATION:
A Specific Plan may be established to implement Sections 65450 through 65457 of
the California Government Code. As provided for in the Government Code, a
Specific Plan is designed to provide for flexibility, innovative use of land
resources and development, a variety of housing and other development types,
and an effective and safe method of pedestrian and vehicular circulation. A
Specific Plan may be adopted for any property or group of properties meeting
the criteria set forth in Article C. The Specific Plan zone will apply to all
properties lying within the bounds of a specific plan that has been adopted by
resolution or ordinance of the city council. Once adopted, a specific plan will
govern all use and development of properties within the bounds of that specific
plan. (Ord. 19-1036)
9-1M-2:    REQUIRED CONTENTS OF A SPECIFIC PLAN:
The required contents of a specific plan will be as set forth in Government
Code Section 65450 et seq. (Ord. 19-1036)
9-1M-3: LAND USE AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
Each adopted specific plan establishes the land use regulations and development
standards applicable to the properties within the specific plan. To the extent
that any development standard is not provided by an individual specific plan,
such standard will be in accordance with the provisions of the zone that most
closely resembles the zone in the specific plan. Director will have the
authority to determine which development standard of this Zoning Code will
apply where a specific plan is silent. (Ord. 19-1036)
9-1M-4: ADOPTED SPECIFIC PLANS:
Adopted specific plans in Temple City are listed below. These specific plans
contain the development standards and guidelines for each corresponding
specific plan zone.
A.   Specific Plans in city limits:
   1.   Crossroads Specific Plan (CSP): The Crossroads Specific Plan regulates
the development and design of the Crossroads area and is designated CSP on the
Zoning Map. Regulations and design elements for the CSP zone, with related
implementing actions, are set forth in the Crossroads Specific Plan. (Ord. 19-
1036)
ARTICLE N. SITE PLANNING AND GENERAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
SECTION:
9-1N-1: Applicability
9-1N-2: Corner Cutbacks
9-1N-3: Walls And Fences
9-1N-4: Height Measurements And Exceptions
9-1N-5: Yards - Measurements And Requirements
9-1N-6: Encroachments
9-1N-7: Repair And Improvements To The Public Right Of Way
9-1N-8: Tree Replacement Requirements
9-1N-9: Security Bars And Shutters
9-1N-10: Low Impact Development (LID) Standards And Green Streets
9-1N-11: Artificial Turf
9-1N-1: APPLICABILITY:
The standards of this article apply to all zones. These standards will be
considered in addition with the standards for each zone established in Article
B and development standards found in each zoning district. Where there may be a
conflict, the standards specific to the zone or specific land use will override
these general standards. All structures, additions to structures, and uses will
conform to the standards of this article, as determined applicable by the
planning manager. (Ord. 19-1036)
9-1N-2: CORNER CUTBACKS:
A.   Visibility Required: To safeguard against vehicular, bicycle, and
pedestrian collisions caused by visual obstructions at street and alley
intersections, and at any point where a driveway intersects a street or alley,
there will be no visual obstruction within the corner cutback area. Such space
will be kept free of buildings, structures, and landscaping that constitutes a
visual obstruction. In hillside areas, corner cutback treatment will include
such grading as may be necessary to provide for reasonable intersection
visibility.
B.   Corner Cutback Area Description:
   1.   The triangular-shaped area on a corner lot, or at a point where a
driveway intersects a street, formed by measuring the prescribed distance from
the intersection of the front (or rear) and street side property lines at an
intersecting street or alley, and connecting the lines diagonally across the
property making a ninety (90)-degree triangle; and
   2.   The triangular-shaped area on each side of any driveway intersecting a
street or alley.
C.   Corner Cutback Required Dimensions:
   1.   Fifteen feet (15') from the intersection of a street right-of-way and
an alley.
   2.   Fifteen feet (15') from the intersection of two (2) alleys or streets.
   3.   Ten feet (10') from the corner of an intersecting street right-of-way
and a driveway.
D.   Irregular Lots: Where, due to an irregular lot shape, the corner cutback
area does not provide for intersection visibility, the corner cutback required
dimensions will be increased to seventeen feet (17').
E.   Limit on corner cutback obstructions: The following will not be erected,
placed, planted, or allowed to grow within the corner cutback area:
   1.   Solid fences, walls, signs, structures, mounds of earth, solid post
mail boxes, or other visual obstructions over thirty-six inches (36") in height
or over twenty-four inches (24") in height in the Manufacturing zone, and open
work fences up to forty-two inches (42") in height.
   2.   Hedges, shrubbery, and vegetation over or with a growth characteristic
over thirty-six inches (36") in height.
   3.   The lower edge of tree canopies of a single trunk tree will be
maintained at a minimum height of seven feet (7') above ground level, as
measured from adjacent street curb elevation. (Ord. 19-1036)
9-1N-3: WALLS AND FENCES:
A.   Walls and Fences: All proposed walls, fences or hedges, must comply with
the requirements of this section.
B.   Wall, Fence or Hedge Height Measurement:
   1.   The maximum height for walls, fences or hedges in the front and street
side yard must be measured from the lowest adjacent grade to the top of the
wall, provided the grade difference from the public right-of-way is twelve
inches (12") or less.
   Front Yard Wall, Fence or Hedge Height Measurement Diagram
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3854.png]
   2.     The following provisions apply to grade differences of more than
twelve inches (12") abutting a public right-of-way:
      a.   For the purposes of this section, a retaining wall is when there is
more than twelve inches (12") of difference from the public right-of-way.
      b.   Retaining walls located in the front and street side yard are
allowed up to three feet (3') in height.
      c.    Properties with retaining walls in the front yard can install an
additional fence if a three-foot (3') setback is provided from the retaining
wall. The fence must be non-view obscuring and comply with the height
requirements of Section
9-1N-3-C (Height Limits for Walls and Fences in Residential Zones).
      d.    Properties with retaining walls on the street side yard can install
an additional fence if a three-foot (3') setback is provided. The fence must
comply with the requirements of Section
9-1N-3-C (Height Limits for Walls and Fences in Residential Zones).
   Front and Street Side Yard Retaining Wall Diagram
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3857.png]
   3.    The maximum height for walls and fences on an interior side and rear
yard must be measured from the highest adjacent grade. Retaining walls up to
three feet (3') in height will not be counted towards the maximum height on the
side and rear yard.
   Interior Side and Rear Yard Wall Height Measurement Diagram
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3859.png]
   4.     The maximum height will be measured in a continuum at each point
along the wall or fence.
C.   Height Limits for Walls and Fences in Residential Zones:
   1.   A wall or fence must not be located in the front yard of a property in
a multi-family zone that has a multi-family use onsite. Fences or walls
required by the building code are exempt from this requirement.
   2.   A wall, fence, or security gate not more than six feet (6') in height
may be located and maintained on any part of an R zoned lot except those areas
comprising the front yard and, along a corner side yard, the driveway
visibility area.
   3.   In front yards the maximum height of a wall, fence or hedge is limited
to a maximum of thirty-six inches (36"_ when view obscuring or a maximum of
forty-two inches (42") when non-view obscuring.
   4.   In the driveway visibility area, which only applies to driveways in a
corner side yard, the maximum height of a wall, fence or hedge will be thirty-
six inches (36"). The driveway visibility area is the triangular area extending
at an angle of forty-five (45) degrees from the street property line to a point
on the edge of the driveway ten feet (10') from the street property line (see
the "Driveway Visibility Area Diagram", of this section). The driveway
visibility area shall will not apply to garages taking access from an alley.
   Driveway Visibility Area Diagram
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3861.png]
   5.    In cases where a garage is located in the front of the property and
the garage door is perpendicular to the street any fence crossing the driveway
is limited to a maximum of thirty-six inches (36") when view obscuring or a
maximum of forty-two inches (42") when non-view obscuring (see the "Fences
Perpendicular To Driveways Diagram", of this section).
   Fences Perpendicular To Driveways Diagram
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3863.png]
   6.   A fence or wall up to six feet (6') in height is allowed in the front
yard on parcels where the adjacent house or garage is setback further than the
house or garage on the parcel as shown in the diagram below. The fence or wall
may not be closer to the front lot line than the adjacent house or garage.
   Different Front Yard Setback Diagram
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3865.png]
D.    Nonresidential Zoning Districts: The maximum height of a wall or fence
within the commercial and industrial zoning districts, including the Crossroads
Specific Plan, must be as follows.
   1.   Front and corner side setbacks.
      a.   The maximum height of a wall or fence along a street frontage is
four feet (4') when the wall or fence is in front of a structure.
      b.   Walls and fences abutting a public sidewalk must have a three-foot
(3') setback that is continuously maintained with landscaping and irrigation.
   2.   Interior side and rear setbacks.
      a.   The maximum height of a wall or fence may be eight feet (8').
      b.   The height of the wall or fence must step down to four feet (4')
when located within five feet (5') of the street property line(s).
   3.   When abutting a residential zoning district. The minimum height of a
wall located within five feet (5') of a street property line(s) should be
equivalent to the maximum height for a solid wall or fence in the development
standards of the abutting residential zoning district.
   4.   Design standards for walls and fences.
      a.   All walls and fences must be a minimum fifty percent (50%) open,
except in the following situations:
         (1)   Walls and fences abutting a residential zoning district will be
constructed only from brick, concrete, or masonry that complement the building.
         (2)   A solid masonry wall is required to screen outdoor storage
areas.
      b.   Walls and fences along the front property line used to screen
adjacent parking lots must have a three-foot (3') setback that is landscaped
and irrigated.
E.   All walls within five feet (5') of the front property line must have a
stucco appearance or split face to complement the building.
F.   Chain-link fences are not allowed in the front or street side yards, but
may be allowed in rear and interior side yards.
G.   Barb Wire, Concertina Wire, Wrought Iron with Spikes: No fence or wall is
allowed to contain barb wire, concertina (razor) wire, wrought iron with
spikes, or any similar sharp projections attached to a fence deemed hazardous
by the Community Development Director. Electrical fences are prohibited.
Security fencing for facilities owned by a public utility or government agency
may include items listed above provided the hazardous items are at least seven
feet (7') above the natural grade of a public right-of-way. (Ord. 19-1036; amd.
Ord. 23-1069)
9-1N-4: HEIGHT MEASUREMENTS AND EXCEPTIONS:
A.   Height of Structures and Measurement:
   1.   Structures will not exceed the maximum allowable height for the zone in
which the structure is located in compliance with the development standards of
each zoning district, except as provided in Exceptions to Height Limits in all
Zones below.
   2.    The max allowable height will be measured as the vertical distance
from the existing grade of the site to an imaginary plane located the allowed
number of feet above and parallel to the grade not including rooftop
appurtenances.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3867.png]
B.   Exceptions to Height Limits in Residential Zones: The following exceptions
to height limits are allowed for residential buildings, provided compliance is
achieved with all other applicable permit requirements and development
standards of this Code.
   1.   Chimneys and Vents: Chimneys and roof-mounted vents will be allowed to
exceed height limits to the minimum extent required by Title 16 (Buildings and
Construction). Chimneys will be allowed an additional twenty-four inches (24")
in height to provide a spark arrestor or a decorative architectural screen that
does not exceed two feet in width by four feet in length.
   2.   Skylights and Roof Windows: When mounted on a minimally pitched roof,
skylights or roof windows will be allowed to exceed the maximum height limit by
up to six inches (6").
   3.   Mechanical Equipment: In the R-3 and all non-residential zones,
uninhabited penthouses or roof structures for the housing of elevators,
stairways, tanks, ventilating fans or similar equipment required to operate and
maintain the building will be allowed to exceed the maximum building height
limit by a maximum of ten percent (10%), except as allowed below. No such
structures or any space above the height limit will be allowed for the purpose
of providing additional living or floor space.
C.   Exceptions to Height Limits in All Zones:
   1.   Architectural Elements. Except as specifically provided in subsection B
above, architectural elements that are approved through the Site Plan and
Design Review per Article C (Permit Processing Procedures) may exceed the
maximum height limit provided that no such structures will be for the purpose
of providing additional living or floor space. Roof-mounted mechanical that is
entirely screened and incorporated into the design of approved architectural
elements may exceed height limitations provided in subsection above.
   2.   Flagpoles:
      a.   Ground-mounted flagpoles will be allowed in residential zones to a
maximum height of twenty-eight feet (28') and in nonresidential zones to a
maximum height of thirty-five feet (35').
      b.   Flagpoles mounted on tops of buildings located in nonresidential
zones will be allowed to exceed the maximum height limit by more than twenty
feet (20'), but in no case will be more than twenty feet (20') taller than the
final building height. Roof-mounted flagpoles will not be allowed in
residential zones.
   3.   Antennas: Height exceptions for antennas and other wireless
communications facilities are set forth in Article
9-1T-11 (Wireless Communications Facilities).
   4.   Fences, Hedges and Walls: Refer to each zoning district for exceptions
to height limits for these features.
   5.   Places of Religious Assembly: Structures housing Places of Religious
Assembly may be allowed to exceed the maximum height limit subject to the
approval of a Site Plan and Design Review application in compliance with
Article C. Where more than one (1) structure exists or is proposed for the
site, only the primary structure will be eligible for approval to exceed the
maximum height limit. (Ord. 19-1036)
9-1N-5: YARDS - MEASUREMENTS AND REQUIREMENTS:
A.   General: This section establishes standards for setback measurement and
required yard areas. These provisions, in conjunction with other applicable
provisions, are intended to provide for open areas around structures; access to
natural light and ventilation, separation of incompatible land uses; space for
privacy, landscaping, and recreation; and access to structures for function and
safety.
B.   Setback areas to remain unobstructed, except for flagpoles, mailboxes,
fences, vegetation, or utilities.
C.   Setback applies to one (1) property only. No setback area provided around
any structure for the purposes of complying with the provisions of this Code
will be considered as providing a setback area for any other structure, and no
setback area on any adjoining property will be considered as providing a
setback area on a site upon which a structure is to be erected, except as may
be specifically addressed through a Planned Development Permit or a Specific
Plan.
D.   Modification of side setback requirement on combined lots. When the common
property line separating two (2) or more contiguous lots is covered by a
structure or permitted group of structures, or when the placement of a
structure or structures with respect to such common property line or lines does
not fully conform to the required setback area on each side yard common
property line or lines, such lots will constitute a single site for the
purposes of the requirements of this Code, and the required side setback area
will not apply to such common property line.
E.   Special setbacks may be established. The council may, by resolution, adopt
a formula or establish standard practices by which to determine an appropriate
and practical modification of required front or rear setback areas in any
residential zone where geometric shape and dimensions and topography make the
literal application of required setback impractical.
F.   Setback requirements for property abutting future street right-of-way. No
structure will be erected or maintained on any lot which abuts a street or
private roadway having only a portion of its required width dedicated unless
the setbacks provided and maintained in connection with that structure have a
width or depth sufficient to accommodate completion of the public road width,
plus the width or depth required to satisfy the setback requirements for the
zone in which the property is located. However, this requirement does not
require a setback of such width or depth as to reduce the buildable width of a
corner lot to less than forty feet (40').
G.   Side setback requirements when a dwelling unit fronts the side yard will
be determined by the planning manager. The final determination will be based on
surrounding development patterns, lot configurations, the front door location,
and setbacks on adjacent properties.
H.   Measurement of Setbacks:
   1.   All setback distances will be measured at right angles from the
designated property line, and the setback line will be drawn parallel to the
designated property line at the required setback distance.
   2.   Setbacks from private streets will be measured from the curb line from
the private street, even if the property line extends to the centerline of a
private street, or as may otherwise be established in a Planned Development
Permit or Specific Plan.
   3.   For irregularly shaped lots, the setback will be measured from each
portion of the lot that comprises the front, side or rear lot line.
   4.   For sloped lots, the measurement will be made as a straight, horizontal
line from the property line to edge of the structure, not up or down the hill
slope.
   5.   For flag lots, the pole portion of the lot will not be used for
defining setback lines. (Ord. 19-1036)
9-1N-6: ENCROACHMENTS:
A.   Existing air conditioning units, water heaters, pool equipment, and
similar such devices encroaching into a required rear or side yard setback may
be replaced, if the size of the encroachment is not increased.
B.   New air conditioning units, water heaters, pool equipment, and similar
such devices that are not replacing a prior unit and are not a part of a new
construction project must provide for a minimum two-foot (2') setback from the
side or rear property line.
C.   When air conditioning units and water heaters are proposed as part of a
new construction project, the units may not encroach into a required setback.
D.   All washing machines and dryers must be located within the main structure
or accessory structure (in cases where a conditional use permit is approved).
New structures must locate the water heater within the structure; this
regulation does not apply to tankless water heaters.
E.   Permitted Encroachments into Yard Areas:
   1.   Cornices, eaves, belt course sills, or other similar architectural
features are not to be more than thirty inches (30") into required yard
setbacks.
   2.   Fireplace structures not wider than eight feet (8') are not to be more
than thirty inches (30") into required yard setbacks.
   3.   Stairway, balconies, and fire escapes are not to be more than thirty
inches (30") into required yard setbacks.
   4.   Uncovered porches and platforms (which do not extend above the finished
floor level) may extend into a required yard no more than five feet (5').
   5.   Planting boxes or masonry planters are not to be more than thirty
inches (30") into required yard setbacks.
   6.   Guard railings for safety protection around ramps are not to be more
than thirty inches (30") into required yard setbacks.
   7.   Pools and spas may extend into the required side or rear yard, but must
maintain a minimum three-foot (3') setback.
   8.   Permanent clotheslines may extend into the required side or rear yard,
but must maintain a two-foot (2') setback.
   9.   Buttresses and archways are permitted in the required side yard. The
height of these features must not extend vertically beyond the top plate of the
first floor. They may extend horizontally to the side property line, where they
may connect with a perimeter wall or fence. Buttresses or archways are only
permitted on the front elevation, where the side yard meets the front yard.
These can be designed in conjunction with a side gate. They must be designed
consistent with the chosen architectural style (such as Spanish colonial
revival).
   10.   A porte cochere is permitted in the side yard where a driveway leads
to a rear garage. The structure must be attached to the building and semi-open,
without enclosing walls or gates, and must be consistent with the architectural
style of the building. It must be one-story, with a maximum ceiling height of
twelve feet (12'). The maximum-allowed area is ten feet (10') (width) by twenty
feet (20') (length). The porte cochere must not be located within the front
yard and the post or column of the porte cochere must be setback a minimum of
four feet from the first floor's front wall. A minimum two (2)-foot setback
shall be provided for posts and eaves along the side property-line. Second
floors must not extend over the top of a porte cochere. (Ord. 19-1036; amd.
Ord. 20-1047)
9-1N-7: REPAIR AND IMPROVEMENTS TO THE PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY:
A.   Improvements required. When deemed necessary due to substantial changes in
local traffic by reason of increased vehicular traffic, including truck
traffic, increased pedestrian traffic, increased noise, and other activities
associated with the proposed development, street improvements may be required
by the director to prevent congestion and the other hazards that are related to
the intensified use of the land.
B.   Types of improvements. The improvements will be to city standards and will
include curb, gutter, sidewalk, street and alley paving, street trees, street
signs, street lights, fire hydrants, and all required utilities.
C.   Repair to the public right of way. When during construction damage occurs
to the public right of way (including street trees), the property owner must
make repairs or replace the necessary infrastructure per the direction of the
City Engineer or the City Engineer’s designee. A fee may be submitted by the
property owner in lieu of repair at a rate determined by the City Engineer.
(Ord. 19-1036; amd. Ord. 22-1060)
9-1N-8: TREE REPLACEMENT REQUIREMENTS:
A.   Trees protected by covenant between the city and the property owner:
   1.   Must not be removed without permission of the city;
   2.   Must be trimmed under the guidance of a licensed arborist;
   3.   Must be maintained in good health (every reasonable effort must be made
to maintain the tree); and
   4.   Must not be topped (topping of a tree may constitute a removal if the
structure is significantly affected).
B.   If a property owner removes a tree protected by covenant, a replacement
tree or trees must be provided per
Table 9-1N-1. If the replacement tree or trees cannot be provided onsite due to
insufficient space, then alternative requirements, such as donation of the tree
or trees to the city for planting in the parkway along with reasonable costs
for staff time to purchase, plant and maintain the tree for three (3) years may
be provided.
 
Table 9-1N-1
Tree Canopy Replacement Requirements
Canopy of the Removed Tree
(Average distance across   Replacement Trees         Alternative Tree
the removed canopy*)
4'-9'                      Two 24" Box Size (min.)   One 36" Box Size
10'-27'                    Three 24" Box Size        Two 36" Box Size
28'-40'                    Four 24" Box Size         Two 48" Box Size
40'-56'                    Six 24" Box Size          Two 48" Box & Two 36" Box
                                                     Size
56'-60'                    Two 24" Box & Two 36" Box **
                           + Two 48" Box Size
60'+                       **                        **
*Add half of the difference between the two to the narrowest measurement for
the average canopy.
**Replace the tree with a combination of both Tree Canopy and Tree Value
Standards. The appropriate standard should be set by the City Arborist.
Note: Basis of this table is determined by the growth of one 24" box size
tree, growing at a rate equivalent to 9 feet of canopy over the course of ten
years.
 
(Ord. 19-1036)
9-1N-9: SECURITY BARS AND SHUTTERS:
A.   On residentially zoned or residentially used structures, metal security
bars mounted on the exterior of the structure, roll down security shades, and
the like must not be located on the front and corner side elevations. This does
not include decorative metal wrought iron that enhances and is in keeping with
the building's architecture. In such cases, the decorative wrought iron should
be limited to a portion of the window or only to small clerestory windows.
B.   On non-residentially used structures or tenant spaces, all metal security
bars, roll down shutters, and the like installed on the front or corner side
elevation must be located on the interior of the tenant space. (Ord. 19-1036)
9-1N-10:    LOW IMPACT DEVELOPMENT (LID) STANDARDS AND GREEN STREETS:
A.   Definitions: If the definition of any term contained in this chapter
conflicts with the definition of the same term in the Municipal NPDES Permit,
then the definition contained in the Municipal NPDES Permit shall govern.
 
               A facility that is categorized in any one (1) of the following Standard Industrial
AUTOMOTIVE     Classification (SIC) and North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)
SERVICE        codes. For inspection purposes, permittees need not inspect facilities with SIC
FACILITY:      codes 5013, 5014, 5511, and 5541 provided that these facilities have no outside
               activities or materials that may be exposed to stormwater.
BASIN PLAN:    The Water Quality Control Plan, Los Angeles Region, otherwise known as the “Basin
               Plan For The Coastal Watersheds Of Los Angeles And Ventura Counties”.
BEST
MANAGEMENT     Practices or physical devices or systems designed to prevent or reduce pollutant
PRACTICE       loading from stormwater or non-stormwater discharges to receiving waters.
(BMP):
               A Low Impact Development (LID) BMP that reduces stormwater pollutant discharges by
               intercepting rainfall on vegetative canopy, and through incidental infiltration
               and/or evapotranspiration, and filtration. Incidental infiltration is an important
BIOFILTRATION: factor in achieving the required pollutant load reduction. Therefore, the term
               “biofiltration” as used in this part is defined to include only systems designed
               to facilitate incidental infiltration or achieve the equivalent pollutant
               reduction as biofiltration BMPs with an underdrain. Biofiltration BMPs include
               bioretention systems with an underdrain and bioswales.
               A LID BMP that reduces stormwater runoff by intercepting rainfall on vegetative
               canopy, and through evapotranspiration and infiltration. The bioretention system
               typically includes a minimum two foot (2') top layer of a specified soil and
BIORETENTION:  compost mixture underlain by a gravel filled temporary storage pit dug into the in
               situ soil. As defined in this part, a bioretention BMP may be designed with an
               overflow drain, but may not include an underdrain. When a bioretention BMP is
               designed or constructed with an underdrain it is regulated as a biofiltration BMP.
               A LID BMP consisting of a shallow channel lined with grass or other dense, low
BIOSWALE:      growing vegetation. Bioswales are designed to collect stormwater runoff and to
               achieve a uniform sheet flow through the dense vegetation for a period of several
               minutes.
               The federal water pollution control act enacted in 1972, by public law 92-500, and
CLEAN WATER    amended by the water quality act of 1987. The clean water act prohibits the
ACT (CWA):     discharge of pollutants to waters of the United States unless the discharge is in
               accordance with an NPDES permit.
               Any development on private land comprised of one (1) or more buildings forming a
COMMERCIAL     complex of stores which sells various merchandise, with interconnecting walkways
MALLS:         enabling visitors to easily walk from store to store, along with parking area(s).
               A commercial mall includes, but is not limited to: mini-malls, strip malls, other
               retail complexes, and enclosed shopping malls or shopping centers.
               Any construction or demolition activity, clearing, grading, grubbing, or
               excavation or any other activity that results in land disturbance. Construction
               does not include emergency construction activities required to immediately protect
               public health and safety or routine maintenance activities required to maintain
CONSTRUCTION   the integrity of structures by performing minor repair and restoration work,
ACTIVITY:      maintain the original line and grade, hydraulic capacity, or original purposes of
               the facility. See “routine maintenance” definition for further explanation. Where
               clearing, grading or excavating of underlying soil takes place during a repaving
               operation, Statewide General Construction Permit coverage is required if more than
               one acre is disturbed or the activities are part of a larger plan.
CONTROL:       To minimize, reduce, eliminate, or prohibit by technological, legal, contractual,
               or other means, the discharge of pollutants from an activity or activities.
               Construction, rehabilitation, redevelopment or reconstruction of any public or
               private residential project (whether single-family, multi-unit or planned unit
               development); industrial, commercial, retail, and other nonresidential projects,
DEVELOPMENT:   including public agency projects; or mass grading for future construction. It does
               not include routine maintenance to maintain original line and grade, hydraulic
               capacity, or original purpose of facility, nor does it include emergency
               construction activities required to immediately protect public health and safety.
DIRECTLY       Situated within two hundred feet (200') of the contiguous zone required for the
ADJACENT:      continued maintenance, function, and structural stability of an environmentally
               sensitive area.
DISCHARGE:     Any release, spill, leak, pump, flow, escape, dumping, or disposal of any liquid,
               semisolid, or solid substance.
DISTURBED      An area that is altered as a result of clearing, grading, and/or excavation.
AREA:
FLOW THROUGH   A modular, vault type "high flow biotreatment" devices contained within an
TREATMENT      impervious vault with an underdrain or designed with an impervious liner and an
BMPs:          underdrain.
               Any single device or series of devices, certified by the executive officer, that
               traps all particles five millimeter (5 mm) or greater, and has a design treatment
FULL CAPTURE   capacity that is eighter a) of not less than the peak flow rate, Q, resulting from
SYSTEM:        a one (1)-year, one (1)-hour storm in the subdrainage area or b) approximately
               sized to, and designed to carry at least the same flow as, the corresponding storm
               drain.
GENERAL        General Permit for Storm Water Discharges Associated with Construction and Land
PERMIT,        Disturbance Activities. General NPDES permit issued by the State Water Board,
CONSTRUCTION:  which authorizes the discharge of stormwater from construction activities under
               certain conditions.
               A LID BMP using planter boxes and vegetation to intercept rainfall on the roof
               surface. Rainfall is intercepted by vegetation leaves and through
               evapotranspiration. Green roofs may be designed as either a bioretention BMP or as
GREEN ROOF:    a biofiltration BMP. To receive credit as a bioretention BMP, the green roof
               system planting medium shall be of sufficient depth to provide capacity within the
               pore space volume to contain the design storm depth and may not be designed or
               constructed with an underdrain.
HYDRO-         The alteration away from a natural state of stream or flows or the beds or banks
MODIFICATION:  of rivers, streams, or creeks, including ephemeral washes, which results in
               hydrogeomorphic changes.
               Any facility involved and/or used in the production, manufacture, storage,
               transportation, distribution, exchange or sale of goods and/or commodities, and
INDUSTRIAL/    any facility involved and/or used in providing professional and nonprofessional
COMMERCIAL     services. This category of facilities includes, but is not limited to, any
FACILITY:      facility defined by either the Standard Industrial Classifications (SIC) or the
               North American Industry Classification System (NAICS). Facility ownership
               (federal, state, municipal, private) and profit motive of the facility are not
               factors in this definition.
               Land development that is set aside for industrial development. Industrial parks
INDUSTRIAL     are usually located close to transport facilities, especially where more than one
PARK:          transport modalities coincide: highways, railroads, airports, and navigable
               rivers. It includes office parks, which have offices and light industry.
INFILTRATION   A LID BMP that reduces stormwater runoff by capturing and infiltrating the runoff
BMP:           into in situ soils or amended on site soils. Examples of infiltration BMPs include
               infiltration basins, dry wells, and pervious pavement.
LOW IMPACT     The implementation of systems and practices that use or mimic natural processes
DEVELOPMENT    to: 1) infiltrate and recharge, 2) evapotranspire and/or 3) harvest and use
(LID):         precipitation near to where it falls to earth.
               A conveyance or system of conveyances (including roads with drainage systems,
               municipal streets, catch basins, curbs, gutters, ditches, manmade channels, or
               storm drains) (40 CFR section 122.26(b)(8)):
               1.   Owned or operated by a state, city, town, borough, county, parish, district,
               association, or other public body (created by or pursuant to state law) having
MUNICIPAL      jurisdiction over disposal of sewage, industrial wastes, stormwater, or other
SEPARATE STORM wastes, including special districts under state law such as a sewer district,
SEWER SYSTEM   flood control district or drainage district, or similar entity, or an Indian tribe
(MS4):         or an authorized Indian tribal organization, or a designated and approved
               management agency under section 208 of the CWA that discharges to waters of the
               United States;
               2.   Designed or used for collecting or conveying stormwater; and
               3.   Which is not part of a publicly owned treatment works (POTW) as defined at 40
               CFR section 122.2.
NATIONAL
POLLUTANT      The national program for issuing, modifying, revoking and reissuing, terminating,
DISCHARGE      monitoring and enforcing permits, and imposing and enforcing pretreatment
ELIMINATION    requirements, under CWA section 307, 402, 318, and 405. The term includes an
SYSTEM         "approved program".
(NPDES):
NATURAL        A drainage system that has not been modified using engineering controls (e.g.,
DRAINAGE       channelized or armored). The clearing or dredging of a natural drainage system
SYSTEM:        does not cause the system to be classified as modified for the purpose of the
               “Hydromodification Management Requirements”.
NEW            Land disturbing activities; structural development, including construction or
DEVELOPMENT:   installation of a building or structure, creation of impervious surfaces; and land
               subdivision.
NONSTORMWATER  Any discharge to a municipal storm drain system that is not composed entirely of
DISCHARGE:     stormwater.
               A point source as defined by 40 CFR 122.2 at the point where a municipal separate
               storm sewer discharges to waters of the United States and does not include open
OUTFALL:       conveyances connecting two (2) municipal separate storm sewers, or pipes, tunnels
               or other conveyances which connect segments of the same stream or other waters of
               the United States and are used to convey waters of the United States (40 CFR
               section 122.26(b)(9)).
PARKING LOT:   Land area or facility for the parking or storage of motor vehicles used for
               businesses, commerce, industry, or personal use.
POLLUTANT:     Any “pollutant” defined in CWA section 502(6) (33 U.S.C. § 1362(6)) and
               incorporated by reference into the California Water Code section 13373.
PROJECT:       All development, redevelopment, and land disturbing activities. The term is not
               limited to “project” as defined under CEQA (Pub. Resources Code section 21065).
               A LID BMP system designed to capture runoff, typically from a roof but can also
RAINFALL       include runoff capture from elsewhere within the site, and to provide for
HARVEST AND    temporary storage until the harvested water can be used for irrigation or non-
USE:           potable uses. The harvested water may also be used for potable water uses if the
               system includes disinfection treatment and is approved for such use by the local
               building department.
RECEIVING      A “Water of the United States” into which waste and/or pollutants are or may be
WATER:         discharged.
               Redevelopment includes, but is not limited to: the expansion of a building
               footprint; addition or replacement of a structure; replacement of impervious
               surface area that is not part of a routine maintenance activity; and land
REDEVELOPMENT: disturbing activity related to structural or impervious surfaces. It does not
               include routine maintenance to maintain original line and grade, hydraulic
               capacity, or original purpose of facility, nor does it include emergency
               construction activities required to immediately protect public health and safety.
REGIONAL       The California Regional Water Quality Control Board, Los Angeles Region.
BOARD:
               Establishments primarily engaged in the retail sale of prepared food and drinks
RESTAURANT:    for on-premise or immediate consumption. Caterers and industrial and institutional
               food service establishments are also included in this industry (SIC Code 5812).
RETAIL         Any facility engaged in selling gasoline and lubricating oils- SIC 5514 and NAICS
GASOLINE       447110 and 447190.
OUTLET:
               Includes, but is not limited to, projects conducted to:
               1.   Maintain the original line and grade, hydraulic capacity, or original purpose
               of the facility.
               2.   Perform as needed restoration work to preserve the original design grade,
               integrity and hydraulic capacity of flood control facilities.
               3.   Includes road shoulder work, regrading dirt or gravel roadways and shoulders
               and performing ditch cleanouts.
ROUTINE        4.   Update existing lines and facilities to comply with applicable codes,
MAINTENANCE:   standards, and regulations regardless if such projects result in increased
               capacity. Updating existing lines includes replacing existing lines with new
               materials or pipes.
               5.   Repair leaks.
               6.   Routine maintenance does not include construction of new lines or facilities
               resulting from compliance with applicable codes, standards and regulations. New
               lines are those that are not associated with existing facilities and are not part
               of a project to update or replace existing lines.
               Land or water area where any “facility or activity” is physically located or
SITE:          conducted, including adjacent land used in connection with the facility or
               activity.
               Any facility or any parts of the facility, including streets, gutters, conduits,
STORM DRAIN    natural or artificial drains, channels and watercourses that are used for the
SYSTEM:        purpose of collecting, storing, transporting or disposing of stormwater and are
               located within the city. See definition for “Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System
               (MS4)”.
STORM WATER OR Runoff and drainage related to precipitation events (pursuant to 40 CFR section
STORMWATER:    122.26(b)(13); 55 fed. reg. 47990, 47995 (November 16, 1990)).
SWQDV:         Storm water quality design volume.
               Surface water flow produced by storm and non-storm events. Non-storm events
URBAN RUNOFF:  include flow from residential, commercial or industrial activities involving the
               use of potable and non-potable water. (Ord. 13-979)
 
B.   Low Impact Development (LID) and Green Streets Policy:
   1.   Applicability: The priority new development and redevelopment projects
listed in Part VIII.F.1.a-b of the Municipal NPDES Permit shall comply with the
provisions of subsection B1a of this section.
      a.   Redevelopment Projects:
         (1)   Where redevelopment results in an alteration to more than fifty
percent (50%) of impervious surfaces of a previously existing development, and
the existing development was not subject to post-construction stormwater
quality control requirements, the entire project must be mitigated.
         (2)   Where redevelopment results in an alteration of less than fifty
percent (50%) of impervious surfaces of a previously existing development, and
the existing development was not subject to post-construction stormwater
quality control requirements, only the alteration must be mitigated, and not
the entire development.
         (3)   Redevelopment does not include routine maintenance activities
that are conducted to maintain original line and grade, hydraulic capacity,
original purpose of facility or emergency redevelopment activity required to
protect public health and safety. Impervious surface replacement, such as the
reconstruction of parking lots and roadways which does not disturb additional
area and maintains the original grade and alignment, is considered a routine
maintenance activity. Redevelopment does not include the repaving of existing
roads to maintain original line and grade.
   2.   Specific Requirements: The site for every priority development project
shall be designed to control pollutants, pollutant loads, and runoff volume to
the maximum extent feasible by minimizing impervious surface area and
controlling runoff from impervious surfaces through infiltration,
evapotranspiration, bioretention and/or rainfall harvest and use.
      a.   Street and road construction of ten thousand (10,000) square feet or
more of impervious surface shall follow USEPA guidance regarding managing wet
weather with green infrastructure: green streets (December 2008 EPA-833-F-08-
009) to the maximum extent practicable.
      b.   The remainder of priority development projects shall prepare a LID
plan to comply with the following:
         (1)   Retain stormwater runoff on site for the stormwater quality
design volume (SWQDv) defined as the runoff from: the eighty fifth percentile
twenty-four (24)-hour runoff event as determined from the Los Angeles County
eighty fifth percentile precipitation isohyetal map; or the volume of runoff
produced from a 0.75 inch, twenty four (24)-hour rain event, whichever is
greater.
         (2)   Minimize hydromodification impacts to natural drainage systems
as defined in the Municipal NPDES Permit.
         (3)   To demonstrate technical infeasibility, the project applicant
must demonstrate that the project cannot reliably retain one hundred percent
(100%) of the SWQDv on site, even with the maximum application of green roofs
and rainwater harvest and use, and that compliance with the applicable post-
construction requirements would be technically infeasible by submitting a site
specific hydrologic and/or design analysis conducted and endorsed by a
registered professional engineer, geologist, architect, and/or landscape
architect. Technical infeasibility may result from conditions including the
following:
            (A)   The infiltration rate of saturated in situ soils is less than
0.3 inch per hour and it is not technically feasible to amend the in situ soils
to attain an infiltration rate necessary to achieve reliable performance of
infiltration or bioretention BMPs in retaining the SWQDv on site.
            (B)   Locations where seasonal high groundwater is within five (5)
to ten feet (10') of surface grade;
            (C)   Locations within one hundred feet (100') of a groundwater
well used for drinking water;
            (D)   Brownfield development sites or other locations where
pollutant mobilization is a documented concern;
            (E)   Other locations where pollutant mobilization is a documented
concern;
            (F)   Locations with potential geotechnical hazards;
            (G)   Smart growth and infill or redevelopment locations where the
density and/or nature of the project would create significant difficulty for
compliance with the on-site volume retention requirement.
         (4)   If partial or complete on site retention is technically
infeasible, the project site may biofiltrate 1.5 times the portion of the
remaining SWQDv that is not reliably retained on site. Biofiltration BMPs must
adhere to the design specifications provided in the Municipal NPDES Permit.
Additional alternative compliance options such as off site infiltration and
groundwater replenishment projects may be available to the project site. The
project site should contact the City of Temple City to determine eligibility.
         (5)   The remaining SWQDv that cannot be retained or biofiltered on
site must be treated on site to reduce pollutant loading. BMPs must be selected
and designed to meet pollutant specific benchmarks as required per the
Municipal NPDES Permit. Flow-through BMPs may be used to treat the remaining
SWQDv and must be sized and designed to filter or treat either the maximum flow
rate of runoff produced from a rainfall intensity of 0.2 inch of rainfall per
hour, for each hour of a storm event: or the maximum flow rate of runoff
produced by the 85th percentile hourly rainfall intensity (for each hour of a
storm event), as determined from the local historical rainfall record,
multiplied by a factor of two. Use of flow-through BMPs will require approval
from the Regional Board.
   3.   Additional Requirements: The site for projects not classified with
general applicability described in subsection B1 of this section, but resulting
in the creation or addition or replacement of five hundred (500) square feet or
more of impervious surface area shall be designed to control pollutants,
pollutant loads, and runoff volume per the Temple City "Low Impact Development
Manual".
C.   Low Impact Development (LID) Plan Review:
   1.   Compliance with the LID and hydromodification control standards of this
chapter shall be shown through a LID Plan.
   2.   The applicant for any new development redevelopment project shall
submit a LID Plan to the Community Development Director for review and
approval.
D.   Installation And Maintenance:
   1.   The development project's LID and hydromodification control features
shall be maintained and shall remain operable at all times and shall not be
removed from the project site unless and until such features have been replaced
with approval from the Community Development Director.
   2.   The owner of the subject development project site shall record a
covenant and agreement. approved as to form and content by the Director, in the
office of the Los Angeles County Registrar-Recorder /County Clerk indicating
that the owner of the subject development project site is aware of and agrees
to the requirements in this chapter.
E.   Violation, Inspection, And Enforcement:
   1.   Violation of any provision of this chapter, any Low Impact Development
requirement prevention plan or any permit issued pursuant to this chapter shall
be a violation per Chapter 4 of Title 8 of the Municipal Code.
   2.   The Community Development Director may issue notices of violation and
administrative orders to achieve compliance with the provision of this chapter.
Failure to comply with the terms and conditions of such a notice of violation
or administrative order shall constitute a violation of this chapter. (Ord. 13-
979; amd. Ord. 19-1036; Ord. 23-1072)
9-1N-11: ARTIFICIAL TURF:
A.   Definitions: The words, phrases and terms will be deemed to have the
meanings ascribed to them as follows:
   ARTIFICIAL TURF: A synthetically derived product that simulates the
appearance of natural live grass. To be used, ARTIFICIAL TURF must meet minimum
standards for materials, installation, and maintenance.
B.   Material Standards: Artificial turf must meet the following requirements
related to the quality of the material.
   1.   Warranty: Artificial turf must have a minimum eight-year no-fade
warranty as issued by the manufacturer.
   2.   Pile Height: Artificial turf installed in the front yard and portions
of the corner side yard visible from the public right of way must have a
minimum pile height of one and two-thirds inches, with parallel long slit
blades.
   3.   Two Colors: In the front yard and portions of the corner side yard
visible from the public right of way, the synthetic turf blades (not including
the thatch layer) must contain at least two natural green colors.
   4.   Thatch Layer: In the front yard and portions of the corner side yard
visible from the public right of way, the artificial turf must contain a beige
or tan thatch layer.
   5.   Percolation: Artificial turf must be affixed to a permeable triple-
layer backing and allow water to percolate through the synthetic grass at a
drain rate of at least thirty inches (30") per hour, to an adequate drainage
system installed underneath the artificial turf to prevent run-off, pooling and
flooding.
   6.   Heavy Metals: The artificial turf must comply with all federal and
state standards related to lead and heavy metal content.
   7.   Fill Material: The fill material must be of silica sand or zeolite
material that is brushed in to keep the blades upright and achieve a natural
grass look. Any replacement fill must be the same. The use of rubber crumb
infill is prohibited.
   8.   Strength And Durability: The artificial turf must be constructed to
maximize dimensional stability, resist damage during normal use and minimize UV
degradation with a tear grab strength of at least two hundred (200) pounds. It
must be resistant to staining, weather, insects, rot, mildew, and fungus and
must be non-allergenic and non-toxic and able to pass the pill burn test for
flammability.
   9.   Prohibited Materials: In the front yard and portions of the corner side
yard visible from the public right of way, the use of indoor/outdoor carpeting,
and artificial shrubs, flowers, tress, and vines instead of natural plantings
is prohibited.
C.   Installation: Artificial turf must be installed pursuant to manufacturer
requirements by a licensed professional with experience in the installation of
artificial turf. Installation must meet the following requirements.
   1.   Site Preparation: Installation must include removal of all existing
plant material and three inches (3") of a compacted aggregate base that
provides adequate drainage and ensures stability.
   2.   Drainage: The area must be sloped and graded to prevent excessive
pooling, runoff, or flooding onto an adjacent property. Artificial turf areas
must be sufficiently drained to live planting areas to provide complete
infiltration of runoff.
   3.   Anchoring: Artificial turf must be permanently anchored over the entire
coverage area with nails and glue, and all seams must be nailed, or sewn and
glued so as to conceal the edges, with the grain pointing a single direction.
   4.   Existing Irrigation: All existing irrigation infrastructure in the
covered area, including piping and sprinkler heads that are no longer used must
be capped or removed and must not be visible.
   5.   Separation From Landscaping: Artificial turf must be separated from
live planting areas by a barrier such as a mow strip or bender board to prevent
mixing of natural plant materials and artificial turf.
   6.   Protect Trees: All efforts must be made to protect existing trees and
tree roots from damage during installation.
D.   Maintenance: Artificial turf must be maintained in an attractive and
clean, unfaded condition free of weeds, stains, debris, tears, holes,
depressions, ruts, odors and looseness at edges and seams. Damaged or worn
areas in the artificial turf surface must be repaired or removed and replaced
in a manner that results in consistent appearance with the existing artificial
turf. The artificial turf surface must be replaced once it is unable to be
maintained as required. Vehicle parking on artificial turf is prohibited.
E.   Location: Artificial turf must meet the following location standards.
   1.   Trees: Artificial turf may not be installed within a five-foot diameter
of the trunk of any tree, including trees in the public right of way or on
adjacent properties.
   2.   Parkways: Artificial turf is prohibited in all parkways.
   3.   Other Setbacks:
      a.   Front Yards: In the front yard, artificial turf must be three feet
(3') from the walls of the structure (not counting bay windows and other
cantilevers) and the side and front property lines. When a sidewalk is not
present, no setback is required from the artificial turf to the front property
line.
      b.   Visible Corner Side Yards: In portions of the corner side yard that
are visible from the public right of way, artificial turf must be three feet
(3') from any structure and no setback is required from the property line.
      c.   Non-Visible Corner Side Yards: In portions of the corner side yard
that are not visible from the public right of way, no setbacks will apply to
artificial turf.
F.   Coverage: Artificial turf must not exceed forty-three percent (43%)
coverage of the front yard.
G.   Minor Exception: The Community Development Director may approve requests
to reduce the setbacks shown above in subsection E3, through a minor exception.
The regular findings of the minor exception are not required in these cases.
All the following findings will apply.
   1.   The design results in a higher quality design aesthetic.
   2.   The minor exception will not establish an undesirable precedent.
   3.   In cases where an exception to the setback requirement is requested,
additional setbacks are provided in other areas so that the average setback is
approximately three feet (3'). (Ord. 23-1070)
ARTICLE O. WATER EFFICIENT LANDSCAPE
SECTION:
9-1O-1: Applicability
9-1O-2: Landscape Water Use Standards
9-1O-3: Implementation
9-1O-4: Guidelines
9-1O-5: Delegation
9-1O-6: Definitions
9-1O-1: APPLICABILITY:
A.   New landscape projects with an aggregate landscape area equal to or
greater than five hundred (500) square feet, requiring a building or landscape
permit, plan check or design review;
B.   Rehabilitated landscape projects with an aggregate landscaped area equal
to or greater than two thousand five hundred (2,500) square feet, requiring a
building or landscape permit, plan check or design review;
C.   New or rehabilitated landscape projects with an aggregate landscape area
of two thousand five hundred (2,500) square feet or less may comply with the
performance requirements of this article or conform to the prescriptive
measures contained in appendix A of the guidelines on file in the city;
D.   New or rehabilitated projects using treated or untreated graywater or
rainwater capture on site, any lot or parcels within the project that has less
than two thousand five hundred (2,500) square feet of landscape area and meets
the lot or parcel's landscape water requirement (estimated total water use)
entirely with the treated or untreated graywater or through stored rainwater
capture on site is subject only to appendix A of the guidelines on file in the
city.
E.   This article does not apply to:
   1.   Registered local, state, or federal historical sites;
   2.   Ecological restoration projects that do not require a permanent
irrigation system;
   3.   Mined land reclamation projects that do not require a permanent
irrigation system; or
   4.   Plant collections, as part of botanical gardens and arboretums open to
the public. (Ord. 19-1036)
9-1O-2: LANDSCAPE WATER USE STANDARDS:
A.   For applicable landscape installation or rehabilitation projects subject
to section
9-1O-1, the estimated total water use allowed for the landscaped area must not
exceed the MAWA calculated using an ET adjustment factor of 0.55 for
residential areas and 0.45 for nonresidential areas, except for special
landscaped areas where the MAWA is calculated using an ET adjustment factor of
1.0; or the design of the landscaped area must otherwise be shown to be
equivalently water efficient in a manner acceptable to the city; as provided in
the guidelines.
B.   Irrigation of all landscaped areas must be conducted in a manner
conforming to the rules and requirements, and will be subject to penalties and
incentives for water conservation and water waste prevention as determined and
implemented by the local water purveyor or as mutually agreed by local water
purveyor and the local agency. (Ord. 19-1036)
9-1O-3: IMPLEMENTATION:
A.   Prior to installation, a landscape documentation package must be submitted
to the city for review and approval of all landscape projects subject to the
provisions of this article. Any landscape documentation package submitted to
the city must comply with the specifications of the guidelines.
B.   The landscape documentation package must include a certification by a
professional appropriately licensed in the State of California stating that the
landscape design and water use calculations have been prepared by or under the
supervision of the licensed professional and are certified to be in compliance
with the provisions of this article and the guidelines. The following are the
minimum requirements:
   1.   Landscape and irrigation plans must be submitted to the city for review
and approval with appropriate water use calculations.
   2.   Verification of compliance of the landscape installation with the
approved plans must be obtained through a certification of completion in
conjunction with a certificate of use and occupancy or permit final process, as
provided in the guidelines. (Ord. 19-1036)
9-1O-4: GUIDELINES:
The city's water efficient landscape guidelines are created to guide the
implementation of this article. It provides specific technical and procedural
guidance for the applicant to comply with this article. It has the same power
of this article and compliance with the guidelines is required for all
applicable projects. The guidelines are also intended for use and reference by
city staff in reviewing and approving the designs and verifying compliance.
(Ord. 19-1036)
9-1O-5: DELEGATION:
The city may delegate to, or enter into a contract with, a local agency to
implement, administer, and/or enforce any of the provisions of this article
including the guidelines. (Ord. 19-1036)
9-1O-6: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions are applicable to this article:
 
                                        The areas undergoing development as one
                                        (1) project or for production home
AGGREGATE LANDSCAPE AREAS:              neighborhoods or other situations where
                                        multiple parcels are undergoing
                                        development as one project, but will
                                        eventually be individually owned.
APPLIED WATER:                          The portion of water supplied by the
                                        irrigation system to the landscape.
                                        Tiered or block rates for irrigation
                                        accounts charged by the retail water
                                        agency in which the block definition
BUDGET BASED TIERED RATE STRUCTURE:     for each customer is derived from lot
                                        size or irrigated area and the
                                        evapotranspiration requirements of
                                        landscaping.
                                        A factor that, when applied to
                                        reference evapotranspiration, adjusts
                                        for plant factors and irrigation
ET ADJUSTMENT FACTOR OR ETAF:           efficiency, the two (2) major
                                        influences upon the amount of water
                                        that needs to be applied to the
                                        landscape.
                                        A project where the site is
ECOLOGICAL RESTORATION PROJECT:         intentionally altered to establish a
                                        defined, indigenous, historic
                                        ecosystem.
                                        The average annual total amount of
                                        water estimated to be necessary to keep
                                        plants in a healthy state, calculated
                                        as provided in the guidelines. It is
ESTIMATED TOTAL WATER USE:              based on the reference
                                        evapotranspiration rate, the size of
                                        the landscape area, plant water use
                                        factors, and the relative irrigation
                                        efficiency of the irrigation system.
                                        Refers to the "Guidelines for
                                        Implementation of The Water Efficient
                                        Landscape Ordinance", as adopted by the
GUIDELINES:                             city, which describes procedures,
                                        calculations, and requirements for
                                        landscape projects subject to this
                                        article.
                                        Any durable material or feature
                                        (pervious and non-pervious) installed
                                        in or around a landscaped area, such as
HARDSCAPES:                             pavements or walls. Pools and other
                                        water features are considered part of
                                        the landscaped area and not considered
                                        hardscapes for purposes of this
                                        article.
                                        The measurement of the amount of water
                                        beneficially used divided by the amount
                                        of water applied. Irrigation efficiency
                                        is derived from measurements and
IRRIGATION EFFICIENCY:                  estimates of irrigation system
                                        characteristics and management
                                        practices. The irrigation efficiency
                                        for purposes of this article is 0.75
                                        for overhead spray devices and 0.81 for
                                        drip systems.
                                        A person licensed by the State of
LANDSCAPE CONTRACTOR:                   California to construct, maintain,
                                        repair, install, or subcontract the
                                        development of landscape systems.
                                        The documents required to be provided
LANDSCAPE DOCUMENTATION PACKAGE:        to the city for review and approval of
                                        landscape design projects, as described
                                        in the guidelines.
                                        Total area of landscape in a project,
                                        as provided in the definition of
LANDSCAPE PROJECT:                      "landscaped area", meeting the
                                        requirements under section 1.1 of the
                                        guidelines.
                                        All the planting areas, turf areas, and
                                        water features in a landscape design
                                        plan subject to the maximum applied
                                        water allowance and estimated applied
                                        water use calculations. The landscaped
                                        area does not include footprints of
LANDSCAPED AREA:                        buildings or structures, sidewalks,
                                        driveways, parking lots, decks, patios,
                                        gravel or stone walks, other pervious
                                        or non-pervious hardscapes, and other
                                        non-irrigated areas designated for
                                        nondevelopment (e.g., open spaces and
                                        existing native vegetation).
                                        A city or county, including a charter
                                        city or charter county, that is
                                        authorized to implement, administer,
                                        and/or enforce any of the provisions of
                                        this article. The local agency may be
LOCAL AGENCY:                           responsible for the enforcement or
                                        delegation of enforcement of this
                                        article including, but not limited to,
                                        design review, plan check, issuance of
                                        permits, and inspection of a landscape
                                        project.
                                        Any entity, including a public agency,
LOCAL WATER PURVEYOR:                   city, county, or private water company
                                        that provides retail water service.
                                        The upper limit of annual applied water
                                        for the established landscaped area as
                                        specified in section 2.2 of the
                                        guidelines. It is based upon the area's
MAXIMUM APPLIED WATER ALLOWANCE OR      reference evapotranspiration, the ET
MAWA:                                   adjustment factor, and the size of the
                                        landscaped area. The estimated applied
                                        water use must not exceed the maximum
                                        applied water allowance. MAWA = (ETo)
                                        (0.62) [(ETAF x LA) + ((1-ETAF) x SLA)]
                                        Any surface mining operation with a
MINED LAND RECLAMATION PROJECTS:        reclamation plan approved in accordance
                                        with the Surface Mining and Reclamation
                                        Act of 1975.
                                        For the purposes of this article, a new
                                        building with a landscape or other new
NEW CONSTRUCTION:                       landscape such as a park, playground,
                                        or greenbelt without an associated
                                        building.
                                        Any surface or natural material that
NONPERVIOUS:                            does not allow for the passage of water
                                        through the material and into the
                                        underlying soil.
                                        An authorizing document issued by local
PERMIT:                                 agencies for new construction or
                                        rehabilitated landscape.
                                        Any surface or material that allows the
PERVIOUS:                               passage of water through the material
                                        and into the underlying soil.
                                        A factor, when multiplied by ETo, that
                                        estimates the amount of water needed by
                                        plants. For purposes of this article,
                                        the plant factor range for very low
                                        water use plants is zero to 0.1; the
                                        plant factor range for low water use
                                        plants is 0.2 to 0.3; the plant factor
                                        range for moderate water use plants is
                                        0.4 to 0.6; and the plant factor range
PLANT FACTOR OR PLANT WATER USE FACTOR: for high water use plants is 0.7 to
                                        1.0. Plant factors cited in this
                                        article are derived from the
                                        publication "Water Use Classification
                                        of Landscape Species". Plant factors
                                        may also be obtained from horticultural
                                        researchers from academic institutions
                                        or professional associations as
                                        approved by the California Department
                                        of Water Resources (DWR).
                                        Treated or recycled wastewater of a
                                        quality suitable for non-potable uses
RECYCLED WATER OR RECLAIMED WATER:      such as landscape irrigation and water
                                        features. This water is not intended
                                        for human consumption.
                                        A standard measurement of environmental
                                        parameters which affect the water use
                                        of plants. ETo is given expressed in
                                        inches per day, month, or year as
                                        represented in appendix A of the
REFERENCE EVAPOTRANSPIRATI ON OR ETo:   guidelines, and is an estimate of the
                                        evapotranspiration of a large field of
                                        four (4) to seven inch (7") tall, cool
                                        season grass that is well watered.
                                        Reference evapotranspiration is used as
                                        the basis of determining the maximum
                                        applied water allowances.
                                        Any re-landscaping project that meets
                                        the applicability criteria of this
REHABILITATED LANDSCAPE:                article, where the modified landscape
                                        area is greater than two thousand five
                                        hundred (2,500) square feet.
                                        An automatic irrigation controller
                                        utilizing either evapotranspiration or
                                        soil moisture sensor data with
SMART IRRIGATION CONTROLLER:            nonvolatile memory must be required for
                                        irrigation scheduling in all irrigation
                                        systems, recommending U.S. EPA
                                        WaterSense labeled devices as
                                        applicable.
                                        An area of the landscape dedicated
                                        solely to edible plants such as
                                        orchards and vegetable gardens, areas
                                        irrigated with recycled water, water
SPECIAL LANDSCAPE AREA:                 features using recycled water, and
                                        recreational areas dedicated to active
                                        play such as parks, sports fields, golf
                                        courses, and where turf provides a
                                        playing surface.
                                        A ground cover surface of mowed grass.
                                        Annual bluegrass, Kentucky bluegrass,
                                        perennial ryegrass, red fescue, and
TURF:                                   tall fescue are cool season grasses.
                                        Bermuda grass, kikuyu grass, seashore
                                        paspalum, St. Augustine grass, zoysia
                                        grass, and buffalo grass are warm
                                        season grasses.
VALVE:                                  A device used to control the flow of
                                        water in an irrigation system.
                                        A design element where open water
                                        performs an aesthetic or recreational
                                        function. Water features include ponds,
                                        lakes, waterfalls, fountains,
                                        artificial streams, spas, and swimming
                                        pools (where water is artificially
                                        supplied). The surface area of water
                                        features is included in the high-water
WATER FEATURE:                          use hydrozone of the landscaped area.
                                        Constructed wetlands used for onsite
                                        wastewater treatment, habitat
                                        protection or stormwater best
                                        management practices that are not
                                        irrigated and used solely for water
                                        treatment or stormwater retention are
                                        not water features and, therefore, are
                                        not subject to the water budget
                                        calculation. (Ord. 19-1036)
 
ARTICLE P. REGULATION OF EXCESSIVE NOISE
SECTION:
9-1P-1: Exemptions
9-1P-2: Definitions
9-1P-3: General Sound Level Standards
9-1P-4: Sound Level Measurement Methodology
9-1P-5: Special Sound Source Standards
9-1P-6: Enforcement
9-1P-7: Duty To Cooperate
9-1P-8: Violations And Penalties
9-1P-1: EXEMPTIONS:
Sound emanating from the following sources is exempt from the provisions of
this article:
A.   Facilities owned or operated by or for a governmental agency.
B.   Capital improvement projects of a governmental agency.
C.   The maintenance or repair of public properties.
D.   Construction operation, maintenance, and repairs of equipment, apparatus,
or facilities of the parks and recreation department, public works projects, or
essential public services and facilities, including those of public utilities
subject to the regulatory jurisdiction of the California public utilities
commission.
E.   Public safety personnel in the course of executing their official duties,
including, but not limited to, sworn peace officers, emergency personnel and
public utility personnel. This exemption includes, without limitation, sound
emanating from all equipment used by such personnel, whether stationary or
mobile.
F.   Public or private schools and school sponsored activities.
G.   Construction projects requiring a building permit are exempt from noise
regulations, provided that such construction activities occur on weekdays
between 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m., and Saturdays between 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.
No construction work is allowed on Sundays or federal holidays.
H.   Property maintenance, including, but not limited to, the operation of lawn
mowers, leaf blowers, etc., provided such maintenance occurs between the hours
of 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.
I.   Motor vehicles, other than off highway vehicles. This exemption does not
include sound emanating from motor vehicle sound systems.
J.   Heating and air conditioning equipment.
K.   Safety, warning and alarm devices, including, but not limited to, house
and car alarms, and other warning devices that are designed to protect the
public health, safety, and welfare.
L.   The discharge of firearms consistent with all state and federal laws.
M.   Any activity as to which the city council or planning commission has
issued an exception based on hardship, or to execute phase-in requirements.
N.   Involuntary noise.
O.   Isolated singular noises (not exceeding two (2) seconds) not repeated
within sixty (60) minutes.
P.   Matters preempted by state or federal law.
Q.   Matters involving the reasonable exercise of constitutional guarantees
unless outweighed by compelling governmental interests or appropriate exercise
of the police power.
R.   Emergency work as defined under section
9-1I-2 of this article.
S.   Noise as to which there is specific consent from all affected persons.
(Ord. 19-1036)
9-1P-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, the following terms will have the following meanings:
 
                            A television, stereo, radio, tape player, compact
AUDIO EQUIPMENT:            disc player, MP3 player, iPod or another similar
                            device.
                            A unit for measuring the relative amplitude of a
                            sound equal approximately to the smallest
                            difference normally detectable by the human ear,
                            the range of which includes approximately one
DECIBEL (dB):               hundred thirty (130) decibels on a scale beginning
                            with zero decibels for the faintest detectable
                            sound. Decibels are measured with a sound level
                            meter using different methodologies as defined
                            below:
                            The standard A-weighted frequency response of a
A-Weighting (dBA):          sound level meter, which de-emphasizes low and high
                            frequencies of sound in a manner similar to the
                            human ear for moderate sounds.
Maximum Sound Level (Lmax): The maximum sound level measured on a sound level
                            meter.
                            Work made necessary to restore property to a safe
                            condition following a public calamity, or work
EMERGENCY WORK:             required to protect persons or property from an
                            imminent exposure to danger or work by public or
                            private utility to restore utility service.
                            The United States, the State of California, the
GOVERNMENTAL AGENCY:        County of Los Angeles, the City of Temple City or
                            any combination of these agencies.
MOTOR VEHICLE:              A vehicle that is self-propelled.
MOTOR VEHICLE SOUND SYSTEM: A stereo, radio, tape player, compact disc player,
                            MP3 player, iPod or another similar device.
NOISE:                      Any loud, discordant or disagreeable sound.
OCCUPIED PROPERTY:          Property upon which is located a residence,
                            business or industrial or manufacturing use.
OFF HIGHWAY VEHICLE:        A motor vehicle designed to travel over any
                            terrain.
                            An institution conducting academic instruction at
PUBLIC OR PRIVATE SCHOOL:   the preschool, elementary school, junior high
                            school, high school, or college level.
                            Property owned by a governmental agency or held
PUBLIC PROPERTY:            open to the public, including, but not limited to,
                            parks, streets, sidewalks, and alleys.
                            A land use that is identified as sensitive to
SENSITIVE RECEPTOR:         noise, including, but not limited to, residences,
                            schools, hospitals, churches, rest homes,
                            cemeteries or public libraries.
SOUND AMPLIFYING EQUIPMENT: A loudspeaker, microphone, megaphone or another
                            similar device.
                            An instrument meeting the standards of the American
SOUND LEVEL METER:          National Standards Institute for type 1 or type 2
                            sound level meters or an instrument that provides
                            equivalent data. (Ord. 19-1036)
 
9-1P-3: GENERAL SOUND LEVEL STANDARDS:
A person must not create any sound, or allow the creation of any sound, on any
property that causes the exterior sound level on any other occupied property to
exceed the sound level standards set forth by the following standards:
 
Zone        7:00 A.M. TO 10:00 P.M. 10:00 P.M. TO 7:00 A.M.
Residential 55 dBA                  45 dBA
Commercial  65 dBA                  55 dBA
Industrial  75 dBA                  75 dBA
 
At the boundary line between two (2) of the above zones, the noise level of the
quieter zone will be used. (Ord. 19-1036)
9-1P-4: SOUND LEVEL MEASUREMENT METHODOLOGY:
Sound level measurements may be made anywhere within the boundaries of an
occupied property. The actual location of a sound level measurement will be at
the discretion of the enforcement officials identified in section
9-1I-6 of this article. Sound level measurements will be made with a sound
level meter. Immediately before a measurement is made, the sound level meter
will be calibrated utilizing an acoustical calibrator meeting the standards of
the American National Standards Institute. Following a sound level measurement,
the calibration of the sound level meter must be reverified. Sound level meters
and calibration equipment must be certified annually. (Ord. 19-1036)
9-1P-5: SPECIAL SOUND SOURCE STANDARDS:
The general sound level standards set forth in section
9-1P-3 of this article apply to sound emanating from all sources, including the
following special sound sources, and the person creating, or allowing the
creation of, the sound is subject to the requirements of that section. The
following special sound sources are also subject to the following additional
standards, the failure to comply with which constitute separate violations of
this article.
A.   Motor Vehicles:
   1.   Off Highway Vehicles:
      a.   A person must not operate an off-highway vehicle unless it is
equipped with a USDA qualified spark arrester and a constantly operating and
properly maintained muffler. A muffler is not considered constantly operating
and properly maintained if it is equipped with a cutout, bypass or similar
device.
      b.   A person must not operate an off-highway vehicle unless the noise
emitted by the vehicle is not more than 96 dBA if the vehicle was manufactured
on or after January 1, 1986, or is not more than 101 dBA if the vehicle was
manufactured before January 1, 1986. For purposes of this subsection, emitted
noise will be measured twenty inches (20") from the vehicle tailpipe using test
procedures established by the Society of Automotive Engineers under standard J-
1287.
   2.   Sound Systems: A person must not operate a motor vehicle sound system,
whether affixed to the vehicle or not, between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00
a.m., such that the sound system is audible to the human ear inside any
inhabited dwelling. A person must not operate a motor vehicle sound system,
whether affixed to the vehicle or not, at any other time such that the sound
system is audible to the human ear at a distance greater than one hundred feet
(100') from the vehicle.
B.   Power Tools and Equipment: A person must not operate any power tools or
equipment between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. such that the power
tools or equipment are audible to the human ear inside an inhabited dwelling
other than a dwelling in which the power tools or equipment may be located. A
person must not operate any power tools or equipment at any other time such
that the power tools or equipment are audible to the human ear at a distance
greater than one hundred feet (100') from the power tools or equipment.
C.   Audio Equipment: A person must not operate any audio equipment, whether
portable or not, between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. such that the
equipment is audible to the human ear inside an inhabited dwelling other than a
dwelling in which the equipment may be located. A person must not operate any
audio equipment, whether portable or not, at any other time such that the
equipment is audible to the human ear at a distance greater than one hundred
feet (100') from the equipment.
D.   Sound Amplifying Equipment and Live Music: A person must not install, use
or operate sound amplifying equipment, or perform, or allow to be performed,
live music unless such activities comply with the following requirements. To
the extent that these requirements conflict with any conditions of approval
attached to an underlying land use permit, these requirements will control.
   1.   Sound amplifying equipment or live music is prohibited between the
hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. and sound emanating from sound amplifying
equipment or live music at any other time must not be audible to the human ear
at a distance greater than two hundred feet (200') from the equipment or music.
   2.   The use of sound amplifying equipment or live music in a condominium
complex which exceeds the noise limits as set forth in section
9-1P-3 of this article, measured at any property line, or, measured in another
condominium unit within the complex, is in violation of this article. (Ord. 19-
1036)
9-1P-6:    ENFORCEMENT:
City of Temple City code enforcement personnel and the Los Angeles County
sheriff have the primary responsibility for enforcing this article; provided,
however, code enforcement personnel and the sheriff may be assisted by the
public health department. Violations will be prosecuted as described in section
9-1P-8 of this article, but nothing in this article prevent the sheriff, code
enforcement or the department of public health from engaging in efforts to
obtain voluntary compliance by means of warnings, notices, or educational
programs. (Ord. 19-1036)
9-1P-7: DUTY TO COOPERATE:
A person must not refuse to cooperate with, or obstruct, the enforcement
officials identified in section
9-1P-6 of this article when they are engaged in the process of enforcing the
provisions of this article. This duty to cooperate may require a person to
extinguish a sound source so that it can be determined whether sound emanating
from the source violates the provisions of this article. (Ord. 19-1036)
9-1P-8: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
Any person who violates any provision of this article once or twice within a
one hundred eighty (180)-day period is guilty of an infraction. Any person who
violates any provision of this article more than twice within a one hundred
eighty (180)-day period is guilty of a misdemeanor. Each day a violation is
committed or permitted to continue constitutes a separate offense and shall be
punishable as such. Penalties shall not exceed the following amounts:
A.   For the first violation within a one hundred eighty (180)-day period the
minimum mandatory fine is five hundred dollars ($500.00).
B.   For the second violation within a one hundred eighty (180)-day period the
minimum mandatory fine is seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
C.   For any further violations within a one hundred eighty (180)-day period
the minimum mandatory fine is one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or, imprisonment
in the county jail for a period not exceeding six (6) months, or both. (Ord.
19-1036)
ARTICLE Q. RESERVED
 
ARTICLE R. RESERVED
 
ARTICLE S. DEDICATION OF MAPPED STREETS
SECTION:
9-1S-1: Purpose
9-1S-2: Application
9-1S-1: PURPOSE:
As a result of studies conducted by the city council, planning commission and
city staff, it is apparent and so found, that certain streets within the city
are of insufficient width to properly accommodate the flow of vehicular traffic
generated by uses along that street. It is essential, to fix such deficiencies,
that a requirement of dedication for public street purposes be imposed upon the
use of property or issuance of building permits thereon, as required in the
following section. (Ord. 19-1036)
9-1S-2:    APPLICATION:
For lots that have a multi-family or nonresidential zoning designation and abut
any street declared in this chapter as being deficient in width, a building
permit with an estimated cost of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) must not be
issued and any new use must not be established. The above does not apply if the
owner of the lot makes a formal offer of dedication to the city, for public
street purposes, of any area along all street frontage of such lots, which area
is needed to provide one-half (½) of the total required ultimate street right
of way. (Ord. 19-1036)
ARTICLE T. SPECIAL USES
SECTION:
9-1T-1: Tobacco/E-Cigarette Store
9-1T-2: Hookah/Smoke Lounge
9-1T-3: Housing For Persons With Special Needs
9-1T-4: Single Room Occupancy (SRO) Building
9-1T-5: Emergency Shelters
9-1T-6: Adult Oriented Business
9-1T-7: Mini-Malls
9-1T-8: Firework Stands
9-1T-9: Large Family Daycare Homes (Rep. by Ord. 20-1047)
9-1T-10: Marijuana Facilities And Activities
9-1T-11: Wireless Communication Facilities
9-1T-12: Massage Establishments
9-1T-13: Accessory Dwelling Units And Junior Accessory Dwelling Units
9-1T-14: Unattended Collection Boxes
9-1T-15: Reverse Vending Machines And Collection Facilities
9-1T-16: Home Occupations
9-1T-17: Animal Keeping
9-1T-18: Sidewalk Dining
9-1T-19: Grocery Store
9-1T-20: Public Food Market
9-1T-21: Urban Dwellings And Urban Lot Splits
9-1T-22: Non-Storefront Delivery-Only, Medical, Cannabis Retail Business
9-1T-1: TOBACCO/E-CIGARETTE STORE:
   A.   Definitions:
      E-CIGARETTE/VAPORIZER RETAILER: An establishment for which more than
fifty percent (50%) of the floor area is dedicated to the display and retail
sale of nicotine enriched solutions and/or vaporizers.
      PARAPHERNALIA: Any apparatus, equipment, or instruments used for smoking
tobacco, cannabis, or controlled substances, and/or inhaling mist of nicotine
enriched solutions, for the purpose of personal or recreational satisfactions.
      TOBACCO RETAILER: An establishment for which more than fifty percent
(50%) of the floor area is dedicated for the display and retail sale of
tobacco, cigarettes, and related products. This provision does not include the
sales of tobacco and tobacco products from a permitted grocery store and
similar permitted retail stores, the primary purpose of which are not the sale
of tobacco and tobacco products.
   B.   Locational Criteria And Minimum Proximity Requirements: A tobacco or e-
cigarette/vaporizer retailer will be permitted under the business class of
"tobacco shop" in the Downtown Commercial Zone, Las Tunas Commercial Zone,
Neighborhood Commercial Zone, and the Industrial Zone, subject to the
locational criteria as set forth in the following:
      1.   No such business will be permitted within one thousand feet (1,000')
of a public or private school established for academic education of children or
minors under the age of eighteen (18) years old.
      2.   No such business will be permitted within one thousand feet (1,000')
of a public park.
      3.   No such business will be permitted within one thousand feet (1,000')
of an existing tobacco or e-cigarette/vaporizer business.
      4.   No such business will be permitted within one thousand feet (1,000')
of a large childcare center located within the city's limits.
   C.   Conditional Use Permit Requirement: No such businesses will be
permitted without first obtaining a conditional use permit.
   D.   Visibility Requirements:
      1.   As a retail store, a tobacco or e-cigarette/vaporizer retailer is
required to provide necessary visibility for the in-store business activities.
A common way of providing such visibility includes, but is not limited to,
creating larger window area for the storefront facing pedestrian and vehicular
traffic; maintaining the storefront windows unobstructed at all times during
business hours, and using clear glass instead of tinted glass for the
storefront windows.
      2.   Window signs for such businesses must be limited to identifying the
name of the business and must not exceed ten percent (10%) of each window area.
   E.   Limitation on Sales of Paraphernalia: Any commercial retail
establishment including a tobacco or e-cigarette/vaporizer retailer selling
paraphernalia as accessory products must limit the sale, storage, and display
of paraphernalia to no more than twenty percent (20%) of the total floor area.
Further, all sale, storage, and display of paraphernalia must be conducted
within a separate enclosed room. (Ord. 19-1036)
9-1T-2: HOOKAH/SMOKE LOUNGE:
   A.   Definition:
      HOOKAH/SMOKE LOUNGE: An establishment for which the configuration of the
floor area is to facilitate on site consumption of tobacco, cigarette, and
nicotine enriched solutions. For clarification purpose, a hookah/smoke lounge,
and/or any other similar uses will be considered an individual business class
separated from a tobacco/e-cigarette store.
   B.   Hookah/Smoke Lounge Prohibited: No hookah/smoke lounge business or
similar operations will be allowed within the city's limits. (Ord. 19-1036)
9-1T-3: HOUSING FOR PERSONS WITH SPECIAL NEEDS:
Section
9-1T-4 accommodates development of housing for individuals with special needs.
(Ord. 19-1036)
9-1T-4:    SINGLE ROOM OCCUPANCY (SRO) BUILDING:
The provisions of this section are intended to accommodate the development of
permanent, affordable housing for small households or persons with special
needs.
   A.   Location: An SRO building will be permitted to locate in the Las Tunas
Commercial Zone subject to the approval of a conditional use permit pursuant to
section
9-1I-2 of this code.
   B.   Standards of Development:
      1.   Las Tunas Corridor Zone Standards: An SRO building will be subject
to the standards of development that apply to the Las Tunas Corridor Zone.
There is no density standard applicable in that zone.
      2.   Unit Size: An SRO unit must contain a floor area of not less than
one hundred fifty (150) square feet and not more than four hundred (400) square
feet.
      3.   Occupancy: An SRO unit must accommodate a maximum of two (2)
persons.
      4.   Kitchen: An SRO unit may have no kitchen, a partial kitchen or full
kitchen facilities. A full kitchen includes a sink, a refrigerator and a stove,
range top or oven. A partial kitchen is missing at least one of these
appliances. If a full kitchen is not provided, common kitchen facilities must
be provided with at least one (1) full kitchen per floor.
      5.   Bathroom: An SRO unit is required to have a partial bathroom or may
contain full bathroom facilities. A partial bathroom facility must have at
least a toilet and sink; a full facility must have a toilet, sink, bathtub,
shower or bathtub/shower combination. If a full bathroom is not provided,
common bathroom facilities must be provided in accordance with the California
Building Code for congregate residences with at least one (1) full bathroom per
floor that is accessible from a common area or hallway.
      6.   Closet: Each SRO unit must have a separate closet.
      7.   Common Area: An SRO building must provide a minimum of two hundred
(200) square feet of interior common space plus four additional square feet per
SRO unit.
      8.   Maintenance Facilities: An SRO building must provide a common
cleaning supply room or utility closet with a wash sink having hot and cold
running water on every floor.
      9.   Trash Enclosure: An SRO building must provide a trash enclosure to
the minimum requirements of section
9-1I-3 this code.
      10.   Existing Structures: An existing structure may be converted to an
SRO building subject to compliance with the provisions of this section.
   C.   Parking:
      1.   Vehicular Parking: One (1) off-street parking space must be provided
per four SRO units plus an additional one (1) space for the on-site manager,
all in a manner consistent with 9-1E of this code.
      2.   Bicycle Parking: A minimum of one (1) bicycle parking space must be
provided for every four (4) SRO units, or an alternate number may be approved
by the director.
   D.   Management:
      1.   Facility Management: An SRO building with nine (9) units or less
must provide a management office on the premises. An SRO building with ten (10)
units or more must provide for a resident manager on the premises.
      2.   Management Plan: A management plan must be submitted with the
application to develop or operate an SRO building. The management plan must
address planned management and operation of the facility, rental procedures,
safety and security of residents and building maintenance. The management plan
must be approved by the director prior to occupancy or operation of the SRO
building.
   E.   Business License: The agency or organization operating the SRO building
must obtain a city business license before commencing operation. The
application submittal requirements must include, but not be limited to, a
completed city business license application subject to the provisions of Title
5 of this Code, a written management plan, and letter-sized copies of the site
plan and floor plan. (Ord. 19-1036)
9-1T-5:    EMERGENCY SHELTERS:
The provisions of this section are intended to provide opportunities for the
development of temporary shelters for the homeless and specific populations of
the homeless.
   A.   Location: An emergency shelter will be permitted to locate in the CSP-
MU-B and CSP-CC zones only along Rosemead Boulevard between Las Tunas Drive and
Broadway, subject to approval of a site plan review pursuant to article 9-1C of
this code before commencing operation.
   B.   Concentration of Emergency Shelters: No more than one (1) emergency
shelter will be permitted to locate within a radius of three hundred feet
(300') from another emergency shelter.
   C.   Standards of Development:
      1.   Maximum Capacity: An emergency shelter will contain a maximum of
thirty (30) beds and must serve no more than thirty (30) homeless persons at
the same time.
      2.   Interior Intake Space: An emergency shelter must provide an interior
waiting and intake area which contains a minimum of two hundred (200) square
feet. No exterior waiting area will be allowed on or off the premises.
      3.   Common Facilities: An emergency shelter must provide common areas
with common facilities including, but not limited to, a central kitchen, dining
room, laundry room, and a common gathering area.
      4.   Open Space: An emergency shelter must provide adequate outdoor open
space area with landscaping. All open spaces must be fenced and not visible
from Rosemead Boulevard.
      5.   Lighting: An emergency shelter must provide adequate external
lighting for security purposes. The lighting must be stationary, directed away
from adjacent properties and public rights-of-way, and with brightness or glare
controlled to be compatible with the neighborhood.
      6.   Maintenance Facilities: An emergency shelter must provide a utility
closet for storage of cleaning supplies and equipment, and with a wash sink
having hot and cold running water.
      7.   Trash Enclosure: An emergency shelter must provide a trash enclosure
to the minimum requirements of the R-3 zone.
   D.   Parking: An emergency shelter must provide one off street parking space
for every ten (10) beds plus one (1) off-street parking space per each employee
and agency vehicle, all in a manner consistent with article 9-1E of this code.
   E.   Management: The agency or organization operating the shelter must
comply with the following requirements:
      1.   Duration of stay by residents must be limited to a maximum of six
(6) months.
      2.   Supportive services must be provided to assist residents to obtain
permanent shelter and income. Such services must be provided at no cost to
tenants.
      3.   The agency or organization operating the emergency shelter must have
a written management plan including, as applicable, provisions for staff
training, neighborhood outreach, admittance hours, security, screening of
residents to ensure compatibility with services provided at the facility, and
for training, counseling, and treatment programs for tenants.
      4.   Emergency shelters must provide for an onsite resident manager, an
onsite management office and security during all hours of operation.
   F.   Business License: The agency or organization operating the emergency
shelter must obtain a city business license before commencing operation. The
application submittal requirements must include, but not be limited to, a
completed city business license application subject to the provisions of Title
5 of this Code, a written management plan, and letter-sized copies of the site
plan and floor plan. (Ord. 13-972; amd. Ord. 19-1036)
9-1T-6: ADULT ORIENTED BUSINESS:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following words or terms have
such meanings herein ascribed to them:
   ADULT ORIENTED BUSINESSES: Any one (1) of the following:
      Adult Arcade: An establishment where, for any form of consideration, one
(1) or more still or motion picture projectors, or similar machines, for
viewing by five (5) or fewer persons each, are used to show films, computer
generated images, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides or other photographic
reproductions thirty percent (30%) or more of the number of which are
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis upon the depiction or description
of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      Adult Bookstore: An establishment that has thirty percent (30%) or more
of its stock in books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or of
photographs, films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides, tapes, records or
other form of visual or audio representations which are distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis upon the depiction or description of specified
sexual activities and/or specified anatomical areas.
      Adult Cabaret: A nightclub, restaurant, or similar business establishment
which: 1) regularly features live performances which are distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis upon the display of specified anatomical areas or
specified sexual activities; and/or 2) which regularly features persons who
appear seminude; and/or 3) shows films, computer generated images, motion
pictures, videocassettes, slides, or other photographic reproductions thirty
percent (30%) or more of the number of which are distinguished or characterized
by an emphasis upon the depiction or description of specified sexual activities
or specified anatomical areas.
      Adult Hotel/Motel: A hotel or motel or similar business establishment
offering public accommodations for any form of consideration which: 1) provides
patrons with closed circuit television transmissions, films, computer generated
images, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides, or other photographic
reproductions thirty percent (30%) or more of the number of which are
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis upon the depiction or description
of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas; and 2) rents,
leases, or lets any room for less than a six (6) hour period, or rents, leases,
or lets any single room more than twice in a twenty-four (24) hour period.
      Adult Motion Picture Theater: A business establishment where, for any
form of consideration, films, computer generated images, motion pictures,
videocassettes, slides or similar photographic reproductions are shown, and
thirty percent (30%) or more of the number of which are distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis upon the depiction or description of specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      Adult Theater: A theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar
establishment which, for any form of consideration regularly features live
performances which are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the
display of specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities.
      Modeling Studio: A business which provides, for pecuniary compensation,
monetary or other consideration, hire or reward, figure models who, for the
purposes of sexual stimulation of patrons, display "specified anatomical areas"
to be observed, sketched, photographed, painted, sculpted or otherwise depicted
by persons paying such consideration. "Modeling studio" does not include
schools maintained pursuant to standards set by the State Board of Education.
"Modeling studio" further does not include a studio or similar facility owned,
operated, or maintained by an individual artist or group of artists, and which
does not provide, permit, or make available "specified sexual activities".
   CHURCH: A structure which is used primarily for religious worship and
related religious activities.
   DISTINGUISHED OR CHARACTERIZED BY AN EMPHASIS UPON: The dominant or
essential theme of the object described by such phrase. For instance, when the
phrase refers to films "which are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis
upon" the depiction or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas, the films so described are those whose dominant or
predominant character and theme are the depiction of the enumerated sexual
activities or anatomical areas. See Pringle v. City of Covina, 115 Cal.App.3
151 (1981).
   ESTABLISHMENT OF AN ADULT ORIENTED BUSINESS: Any of the following:
      1.   The opening or commencement of any adult oriented business as a new
business;
      2.   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not an adult
oriented business, to any adult oriented business defined herein;
      3.   The addition of any of the adult oriented businesses defined herein
to any other existing adult-oriented business; or
      4.   The relocation of any such adult oriented business.
   JUICE BAR (And Other Places Dispensing Food Or Drink): Any food or beverage
establishment where the persons owning or employed in the preparation or
dispensation of such food or beverage appears before (or is discernable by) the
patrons of such establishment as being nude, seminude or exhibiting the
specified anatomical features, as described herein.
   REGULARLY FEATURES: With respect to an adult theater or adult cabaret means
a regular and substantial course of conduct. The fact that live performances
which are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis upon the display of
specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities occurs on two (2) or
more occasions within a thirty (30) day period; three (3) or more occasions
within a sixty (60) day period; or four (4) or more occasions within a one
hundred eighty (180) day period, must to the extent permitted by law be deemed
to be a regular and substantial course of conduct.
   SCHOOL: Any child or day care facility, or an institution of learning for
minors, whether public or private, offering instruction in those courses of
study required by the California Education Code and maintained pursuant to
standards set by the State Board of Education. This definition includes a
nursery school, kindergarten, elementary school, middle or junior high school,
senior high school, or any special institution of education, but it does not
include a vocational or professional institution of higher education, including
a community or junior college, college, or university.
   SEMINUDE: A state of dress in which clothing covers no more than the
genitals, pubic region, buttocks, areola of the female breast, as well as
portions of the body covered by supporting straps or devices.
   SPECIAL HEARING OFFICER: The city manager of this city or his designee.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS: Any of the following:
      1.   Less than completely and opaquely covered human:
         a. Genitals or pubic region;
         b. Buttocks; and
         c. Female breast below a point immediately above the top of the
areola;
      2.   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered;
      3.   Any device, costume or covering that simulates any of the body parts
included in subsection 1 or 2 of this definition.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES: Any of the following, whether performed
directly or indirectly through clothing or other covering:
      1.   The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus, or female breast;
      2.   Sex acts, actual or simulated, including intercourse, oral
copulation, or sodomy;
      3.   Masturbation, actual or simulated;
      4.   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
other activities described in subsections 1 through 3 of this definition.
   B.   Locational Criteria and Minimum Proximity Requirements: An adult
oriented business may be established or located in the Mixed-Use Low zone of
Industrial zone subject to certain distances of certain specified land uses or
zones as set forth below:
      1.   No such business will be permitted within six hundred feet (600') of
a public or private school for the academic education of children or minors
under the age of eighteen (18) or a church.
      2.   No such business will be permitted within three hundred feet (300')
of residentially zoned property or property used for residential purposes.
      3.   No such business will be permitted within three hundred feet (300')
of premises selling alcoholic beverages.
      4.   No such business will be permitted within one thousand feet (1,000')
of another such adult oriented business.
      5.   The distances set forth above will be measured from the external
property boundaries of the property upon which the adult oriented business is
located to the nearest property line or lines of the property so zoned or used
without regard to intervening structures or parcels or rights-of-way.
      6.   The above locational criteria apply in all applicable zones, except
Industrial zoned properties, south of Lower Azusa Road and east of Miller
Drive.
      7.   The city council recognizes the constitutional limitation of
completely barring such businesses from the entire city. In the event, a court
of final resort finds that these regulations improperly limit the siting of
such activities, then the council declares that if a court orders more siting
locations, properties abutting the streets known as Las Tunas Drive and Temple
City Boulevard must be the last areas to be opened for such activities.
   C.   Amortization Of Nonconforming Adult Oriented Business Uses: Any use of
real property existing on the date of the acceptance of this section, which
does not conform to the provisions of subsection D of this section, but which
was constructed, operated, and maintained in compliance with all previous
regulations, will be regarded as a nonconforming use which may be continued for
three (3) years after the effective date hereof. On or before such date, all
such nonconforming uses must be terminated unless an extension of time has been
approved by the special hearing officer in accordance with the provisions of
subsection F of this section.
      1.   Abandonment: Notwithstanding the above, any discontinuance or
abandonment of the use of any lot or structure as an adult oriented business
will result in a loss of legal nonconforming status of such use.
      2.   Amortization; Annexed Property: Any adult oriented business which
was a legal use at the time of annexation of the property and which is located
in the city, but which does not conform to the provisions of subsection D of
this section will be terminated within one (1) year of the date of annexation
unless an extension of time has been approved by the special hearing officer in
accordance with the provisions of subsection F of this section.
   D.   Extension of Time for Termination of Nonconforming Use: The owner or
operator of a nonconforming use as described in subsection E of this section
may apply under the provisions of this subsection F to the special hearing
officer for an extension of time within which to terminate the nonconforming
use.
      1.   Time And Manner Of Application: An application for an extension of
time within which to terminate a use made nonconforming by the provisions of
subsection E of this section, may be filed by the owner of the real property
upon which such use is operated, or by the operator of the use. Such an
application must be filed with the special hearing officer at least ninety (90)
days but no more than one hundred eighty (180) days prior to the time
established in subsection E of this section for termination of such use.
      2.   Content of Application; Fees: The application must state the grounds
for requesting an extension of time. The filing fee for such application must
be the same as that for a variance as is set forth in the schedule of fees
established by resolution from time to time by the city council.
      3.   Special Hearing Procedure: The city manager will appoint a special
hearing officer to hear such applications. The Hearing Officer will set the
matter for hearing within fifteen (15) days of receipt of the application. All
parties involved will have the right to offer testimonial, documentary and
tangible evidence bearing on the issues; may be represented by counsel; and
will have the right to confront and cross examine witnesses. Any relevant
evidence may be admitted that is the sort of evidence upon which reasonable
persons are accustomed to relying in the conduct of serious affairs. Any
hearing under this subsection D may be continued for a reasonable time for the
convenience of a party or a witness. The decision of the hearing officer will
be final and subject to judicial review pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 1094.5 or 1094.6.
      4.   Approval of Extension; Findings: An extension under the provisions
of this subsection F will be for a reasonable period of time commensurate with
the investment involved, and will be approved only if the special hearing
officer makes all of the following findings or such other findings as are
required by law.
         a.   The applicant has made a substantial investment (including, but
not limited to, lease obligations) in the property or structure on or in which
the nonconforming use is conducted; such property or structure cannot be
readily converted to another use; and such investment was made prior to
adoption of this chapter.
         b.   The applicant will be unable to recoup said investment as of the
date established for termination of the use; and
         c.   The applicant has made good faith efforts to recoup the
investment and to relocate the use to a location in conformance with subsection
D of this section. (Ord. 19-1036)
9-1T-7: MINI-MALLS:
   A.   Definition:
      MINI-MALL: A commercial center consisting of two (2) or more commercial
units or business on a freestanding (self-contained) development site of less
than sixty-five thousand (65,000) square feet of land area with parking
situated between the building or a portion of the building and the street. For
purposes of defining a mini mall, a freestanding (self-contained) development
consists of any commercial center which does not have reciprocal parking and/or
reciprocal vehicular access with any other abutting or adjoining site.
   B.   Development Standards for Mini-Malls:
      1.   Any development site with eighteen thousand (18,000) square feet of
land area or less must be limited to no more than two (2) commercial units or
businesses.
      2.   The minimum size of a commercial unit in any mini-mall development
project must be one thousand (1,000) square feet of gross floor area.
      3.   Parking will be required based upon use, occupancy, gross floor area
and number of individual units; provided, however, that no less than seven (7)
parking spaces shall be provided per commercial unit or business on the street
(ground) level. Parking requirements for a second story and subsequent stories
shall be regulated by provisions of this section of the zoning code based upon
the proposed use, occupancy, gross floor area and number of individual units.
      4.   Any mini-mall development project shall be subject to a conditional
use permit.
      5.   A traffic report by a registered traffic engineer shall be conducted
and shall be submitted in conjunction with any proposed mini-mall use.
      6.   Any proposed mini-mall development shall be consistent with and
complementary to the surrounding neighborhood to assure preservation of
neighborhood character and ambiance.
         a.   Landscaping:
            (1)   Ten percent (10%) of all parking areas shall be devoted to
landscaped open space. Landscape plans shall be prepared by a licensed
architect or landscape contractor.
            (2)   To buffer surface parking areas from adjacent sidewalks and/
or parkways, a five-foot-wide landscaped area shall be provided. Said
landscaping may consist of a landscaped berm, hedge or similar planting
material. Hardscape or decorative block materials shall not constitute
landscaping.
            (3)   All landscaped areas shall be improved with an irrigation
system. Said irrigation system shall consist of an automatic drip system or
similar water conservation apparatus.
            (4)   Shade producing trees shall be planted in all parking areas
at a ratio of one twenty-four-inch (24") box size tree for every four (4)
parking spaces.
         b.   Maintenance:
            (1)   The exterior condition of all properties, including, but
limited to, parking areas, exterior walls or landscaped areas shall always be
maintained in the state of good repair.
            (2)   Maintenance of landscaped areas shall include the continuous
operations of watering, removal of weeds, mowing, trimming, edging,
cultivation, reseeding, plant replacement, fertilization, spraying, control of
pests, insects and rodents, or other operations necessary to ensure normal
plant growth.
            (3)   When a new commercial development is approved, a covenant and
agreement shall be signed by the owner ensuring the continuous maintenance of
the premises regardless of future ownership.
         c.   Signage: No roof signs shall be permitted. All other signage
shall be governed by the zoning code.
         d.   Security: Adequate security measures shall be incorporated into
the design for a commercial center to ensure a reasonable level of safety.
         e.   Public Notices: Public notices for any public hearing shall be
mailed to all property owners within five hundred feet (500') of the subject
site. (Ord. 19-1036)
9-1T-8: FIREWORK STANDS:
   A.   Fireworks stands shall be permitted on any non-residentially zoned site
or any public-school site with frontage on a primary street as designated on
the adopted general plan.
   B.   Fireworks stand staging areas/distribution points shall be prohibited
in any zone. (Ord. 19-1036)
9-1T-9: LARGE FAMILY DAYCARE HOMES:
(Rep. by Ord. 20-1047)
9-1T-10: MARIJUANA FACILITIES AND ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Definitions: The words, phrases, and terms used in this section shall
have the following meanings for the purposes of this section only:
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE: A detached non-habitable structure that is fully
enclosed with walls for all perimeters of the building, including, without
limitation, a storage shed located on the same legal parcel as a private
residence.
   COMMERCIAL MARIJUANA ACTIVITY: The cultivation, possession, manufacture,
distribution, processing, storing, laboratory testing, labeling,
transportation, or sale of marijuana and marijuana products for commercial
purposes, whether or not conducted with a license issued in accordance with
division 10 of the Business and Professions Code.
   CULTIVATE OR CULTIVATION: Any activity involving the planting, growing,
harvesting, drying, curing, grading, or trimming of marijuana.
   ESTABLISH OR OPERATE: Means and includes any of the following involving
marijuana: the opening, commencement, conversion of an existing business,
facility, use, establishment, or location, or the addition to any other
existing business, facility, use, establishment or location, for marijuana
purposes as set forth in this section.
   LEGAL PARCEL: Any parcel of real property that may be separately sold in
compliance with the Subdivision Map Act.
   MANUFACTURE: The commercial production, preparation, propagation, or
compounding of marijuana or marijuana products either directly or indirectly or
by extractions and chemical synthesis at a fixed location that packages or
repackages marijuana or marijuana products or labels or re-labels its
container.
   MARIJUANA: All parts of the plant cannabis, whether growing or not; the
seeds thereof; the resin extracted from any part of the plant; and every
compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of the plant,
its seeds or resin. It includes marijuana infused in foodstuff. It does not
include the mature stalks of the plant, fiber produced from the stalks, oil or
cake made from the seeds of the plant, any other compound, manufacture, salt,
derivative, mixture, or preparation of the mature stalks (except resin
extracted therefrom), fiber, oil, or cake, or the sterilized seeds of the plant
that are incapable of germination. Marijuana does not include:
      1.   Industrial hemp, as defined in Health and Safety Code section
11018.5; or
      2.   The weight of any other ingredient combined with marijuana to
prepare topical or oral administrations, food, drink or other product.
   The terms marijuana and cannabis shall be synonymous and have the same
meaning.
   MARIJUANA CULTIVATION FACILITY: Any business, facility, use, establishment,
or location where the cultivation of marijuana occurs.
   MARIJUANA PRODUCTS: Marijuana that has undergone a process whereby the plant
material has been transformed into a concentrate, including, but not limited
to, concentrated cannabis, or an edible or topical product containing marijuana
or concentrated cannabis and other ingredients.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA: Marijuana used for medical purposes where that medical
use is deemed appropriate and has been recommended by a physician who has
determined that the person's health would benefit from the use of marijuana in
the treatment of acquired immune deficiency syndrome ("AIDS"), anorexia,
arthritis, cancer, chronic pain, glaucoma, migraine, spasticity, or any other
serious medical condition for which marijuana is deemed to provide relief as
defined in subsection (h) of Health and Safety Code section 11362.7.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA DISPENSARY: Any business, facility, use, establishment or
location, whether fixed or mobile, where medical marijuana is made available
to, delivered to and/or distributed by or to three (3) or more of the
following: a “primary caregiver”, “a qualified patient”, or a person with an
“identification card”, as these terms are defined in California Health and
Safety Code section 11362.5 and following. A “medical marijuana dispensary”
does not include the following uses, as long as the location of such uses are
otherwise regulated by this code or applicable law: a clinic licensed pursuant
to chapter 1 of division 2 of the Health and Safety Code, a healthcare facility
licensed pursuant to chapter 2 of division 2 of the Health and Safety Code, a
residential care facility for persons with chronic life threatening illness
licensed pursuant to chapter 3.01 of division 2 of the Health and Safety Code,
a residential care facility for the elderly licensed pursuant to chapter 3.2 of
division 2 of the Health and Safety Code, a residential hospice, a home health
agency licensed pursuant to chapter 8 of division 2 of the Health and Safety
Code, as long as any such use complies strictly with applicable law including,
but not limited to, Health and Safety Code section 11362.5 and following, or a
medical marijuana dispensary does not include a non-storefront, delivery-only
medical, cannabis retail business.
   NON-MEDICAL MARIJUANA FACILITY: Any building, facility, use, establishment,
property, or location where any person or entity establishes, commences,
engages in, conducts, or carries on, or permits another person or entity to
establish, commence, engage in, conduct, or carry on, any activity that
requires a State license or nonprofit license under Business and Professions
Code sections 26000 and following, including, but not limited to, marijuana
cultivation, marijuana distribution, marijuana transportation, marijuana
storage, manufacturing of marijuana products, marijuana processing, the sale of
any marijuana or marijuana products, and the operation of a marijuana
microbusiness.
   OUTDOOR: Any location within the City of Temple City that is not within a
fully enclosed structure. Open patio covers or partially enclosed patio covers
shall be considered "outdoor" for the purposes of this section.
   PREMISES: A single, legal parcel of property. Where contiguous legal parcels
are under common ownership or control, such contiguous legal parcels shall
constitute a single "premise" for purposes of this section.
   PRIVATE RESIDENCE: A legally existing house, apartment unit, mobile home, or
other similar dwelling. A legally existing accessory structure located on the
same legal parcel as a private residence shall be considered a part of that
private residence.
   RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURE: Any building or portion thereof legally existing
which contains living facilities, including provisions for sleeping, eating,
cooking and sanitation on a premises or legal parcel located within a zoning
district authorizing such use and which may be legally occupied by persons.
   B.   Prohibited Activities:
      1.   Medical marijuana dispensaries and non-medical marijuana facilities
are prohibited in all zones in the city and shall not be established or
operated anywhere in the city.
      2.   Except for personal marijuana cultivation in a private residence per
subsections E through G of this section, marijuana cultivation and marijuana
cultivation facilities are prohibited in all zones in the city and shall not be
established or operated anywhere in the city.
      3.   Commercial marijuana activities are prohibited in all zones in the
city and shall not be established or operated anywhere in the city.
      4.   No person may own, establish, open, operate, conduct, or manage any
marijuana dispensary, non-medical marijuana facility, or marijuana cultivation
facility in the city, or be the lessor of property where a marijuana
dispensary, non-medical marijuana facility, or marijuana cultivation facility
is located. No person may participate as an employee, contractor, agent,
volunteer, or in any manner or capacity in any marijuana dispensary, non-
medical marijuana facility, or marijuana cultivation facility in the city.
      5.   No use permit, site development permit, tentative map, parcel map,
variance, grading permit, building permit, building plans, zone change,
business license, certificate of occupancy or other applicable approval will be
accepted, approved or issued for the establishment or operation of a marijuana
dispensary, non-medical marijuana facility, or marijuana cultivation facility.
      6.   No person or entity may deliver or transport marijuana from any
fixed or mobile location, either inside or outside the city, to any person or
location in the city, except that a person may deliver or transport medical
marijuana to a qualified patient or person with an identification card, as
those terms are defined in Health and Safety Code section 11362.7, for whom he
or she is the primary caregiver within the meaning of Health and Safety Code
sections 11362.5 and 11362.7(d).
      7.   Nothing contained in this section shall be deemed to permit or
authorize any use or activity which is otherwise prohibited by any state or
federal law.
   8.   Nothing in Section
9-1T-10 prohibits the establishment of non-storefront, delivery-only medical
cannabis retail businesses. See section
9-1T-22 for the related requirements for these uses.
   C.   Enforcement: The city may enforce this section in any manner permitted
by law. The violation of this section shall be and is hereby declared to be a
public nuisance and contrary to the public interest and shall, at the
discretion of the city, create a cause of action for injunctive relief.
   D.   Personal Marijuana Cultivation: Personal marijuana cultivation may only
be conducted within private residences, and in compliance with subsections E
through G of this section, and state law.
      1.   It shall be unlawful and a public nuisance for any person twenty-
one (21) years of age or older who owns, leases, occupies, or has charge or
possession of any private residence within any zoning district in the City of
Temple City to cultivate marijuana for personal use except as provided for in
subsections E through G of this section.
      2.   It shall be unlawful and a public nuisance for any person under
twenty-one (21) years of age to cultivate marijuana.
   E.   Indoor Marijuana Cultivation in a Private Residence: the following is
required before marijuana may be cultivated within a private residence.
      1.   Plant Limitation: Not more than a total of six (6) living marijuana
plants may be planted, cultivated, harvested, dried, or processed inside a
single private residence or inside an accessory structure located on the
grounds where the private residence is located, at any one time.
      2.   Residency Requirement: Any person who cultivates marijuana for
personal use shall reside full-time on the premises where the marijuana
cultivation occurs.
      3.   Location and Use:
         a.   Primary residential structures used for marijuana cultivation
shall always remain a residence, with legal and functioning cooking, sleeping,
and sanitation facilities, with proper ingress and egress.
         b.   Cultivation shall not be permitted in rooms when it impedes the
room's primary use, such as cooking of meals, sleeping, and bathing.
         c.   Any room or area being converted for the purposes of cultivating
marijuana shall receive planning and building approval, and shall comply with
all applicable Building, Mechanical, Electrical, Plumbing, and Fire Codes.
         d.   Cultivation shall not occur in carpeted areas or other areas
deemed hazardous by the city's building official.
         e.   Cultivation shall be limited to a cumulative area totaling up to
fifty (50) square feet.
         f.   Marijuana cultivation shall not occur in a garage that is
required by this title. All required garage parking spaces must remain free and
clear of marijuana cultivation equipment or living marijuana plants.
         g.   Any person who cultivates marijuana for personal use shall reside
full-time on the premises where the marijuana cultivation occurs.
         h.   The private residence shall not be used primarily for marijuana
cultivation.
         i.   A renter seeking to cultivate marijuana shall have written
consent from the property owner.
         j.   Personal marijuana cultivation shall not be allowed in a
residence if any of the following activities also occur on the premises -
childcare center, community care facility, daycare center, youth center, group
home, or any other facility caring for children that do not allow the
cultivation of marijuana by law or policy.
         k.   Marijuana cultivation lighting shall not exceed a total of one
thousand two hundred (1,200) watts for the cultivation area within the private
residence.
         l.   The indoor use of generators and/or the indoor use of gas
products, including, without limitation, carbon dioxide, butane, propane, and
natural gas shall be prohibited for the cultivation of marijuana.
         m.   Marijuana cultivation shall not be conducted in such a manner as
to emit detrimental odor outside of the private residence.
         n.   Marijuana cultivation shall require proper ventilation to prevent
mold damage and to prevent marijuana odors or particles from being a public
nuisance.
         o.   Marijuana cultivation shall not be hazardous due to use or
storage of materials, processes, and products or wastes.
         p.   Marijuana cultivation shall not create dust, glare, heat, noise,
smoke, traffic, vibration, or other impacts deemed a public nuisance.
         q.   Not more than a total of six (6) living marijuana plants may be
planted, cultivated, harvested, dried, or processed inside a single private
residence and/or inside an accessory structure located on the grounds where the
private residence is located, at any one time.
         r.   Marijuana cultivation activities, including marijuana plants and
equipment, shall not be allowed on balconies, patios, porches, and the like.
         s.   Marijuana cultivation activities, including marijuana plants and
equipment, shall not be visible from the public right-of-way, private driveway,
or fire lane.
      4.   Access and Security:
         a.   Marijuana cultivation areas shall have an adequate mechanical
locking or electronic security system installed prior to marijuana cultivation.
         b.   Marijuana cultivation areas shall always remain secure and shall
not be accessible to persons under twenty-one (21) years of age.
         c.   The living marijuana plants and any marijuana produced by the
plants in excess of 28.5 grams shall be kept within the private residence or
accessory structure located upon the premises, in a locked space, and not
visible by normal unaided vision from a public view.
   F.   Outdoor Marijuana Cultivation: It shall be unlawful and a public
nuisance for any person owning, leasing, occupying, or having charge or
possession of any legal parcel or premises within any zoning district in the
City of Temple City to cause, or allow such parcel or premises to be used for,
the outdoor cultivation of marijuana or marijuana products. (Ord. 19-1036; amd.
Ord. 25-1081 U)
9-1T-11: WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITIES:
   A.   Applicability: The design and installation provision set forth herein
are applicable to all new wireless communication facilities (WCF) within the
City of Temple City, not located within or over a public right-of-way. The
requirements of this section apply to telecommunication facilities that are the
primary use of a property and those that are accessory facilities with the
exception of the following facilities;
      1.   Licensed amateur (ham) radio and citizen band operations.
      2.   Handheld mobile, marine, and portable radio transmitters and/or
receivers.
      3.   Emergency services radio.
      4.   Radio and television mobile broadcast facilities.
      5.   Antennas and equipment cabinets or rooms located completely inside
or permitted structures.
      6.   A single ground or building mounted antenna that only receives radio
or television satellite dish antenna, subject to the restrictions outlined in
this section.
   B.   Definitions:
   ANTENNA: One or more rods, poles, panels, disks, or similar devices used for
the transmission or reception of radio frequency signals. This definition
includes omnidirectional antennas (whips), directional antennas (panels), and
parabolic antennas (disks).
   ANTENNA, BUILDING FACADE MOUNTED:A flat panel installed by flush mounting
the antenna to the building’s facade and painting it to match the wall’s color
and texture. In some cases, the antenna is incorporated into or hidden by one
of the structure’s design elements.
   ANTENNA, FLAGPOLE: A slim line monopole with a flag attached. It has a
thicker diameter than a typical flagpole.
   ANTENNA, LATTICE POWER LINE TOWER: This design takes advantage of the
existing lattice power transmission towers used by utility companies.
   ANTENNA, LIGHT STANDARD FLUSH MOUNTED: Usually found at sports fields with
ballpark lighting. The antenna panels are mounted near the pole and under the
lights. However, antennas can also be placed within a stealth cylinder on top
of a light standard.
   ANTENNA, LOLLYPOP: Consists of a thin pole that holds a panel antenna.
Employed in open space or below the ridgeline in canyons or areas of hilly
terrain. Sometimes the antenna is blended with faux or natural vegetation.
   ANTENNA, MONOBROADLEAF: Mimics a broadleaf tree to hide antennas, using the
same monopole structure.
   ANTENNA, MONOPALM: Covers a monopole design with palm fronds and a growth
pod to hide the cell site’s antennas.
   ANTENNA, MONOPINE: Similar to a monopole design pole with simulated bark
covering, in addition to simulated branches and pine needles.
   ANTENNA, MONOPOLE: A tall pole topped with a triangular structure to mount
the antenna array. This is one of the earlier design types used for wireless
communications facilities.
   ANTENNA, SATELLITE EARTH STATION: A parabolic or dish shaped antenna or
other apparatus or device that is designed for the purpose of receiving or
transmitting signals for voice, video, or data.
   ANTENNA, SLIM LINE MONOPOLE: A slender pole mounted with a four (4) to six
(6)-foot-high radome that has an eighteen (18) to twenty four (24) inches
diameter to conceal the antennas.
   ANTENNA, STEALTH INSTALLATION: In addition to monopine, monopalm, and
monobroadleaf, can include faux chimneys, rooftop screen walls, steeples, clock
towers, and faux water tanks.
   ANTENNA, WATER TANK: Uses a preexisting, aboveground structure to attach
facade mounted antennas.
   ANTENNA, WHIP: A thin metal/fiberglass pole that serves as a receiving and
transmitting device. Typically measures eighteen (18) inches to ten (10) feet
in length and half an inch (0.5) inch to four (4) inches in diameter. Typically
installed on fire department buildings, police department buildings, and city
maintenance facilities.
   COLLOCATION:The sharing of a wireless communication facility by two (2) or
more wireless communication service providers.
   INSTITUTIONAL: Includes churches, temples and other places of religious
worship; educational institutions; government facilities; lodges, meeting halls
and social clubs; and parks and playgrounds. This does not include residential
uses, community care facilities (large and small), modular homes, supportive
housing, transitional housing, commercial off-street parking spaces, homes for
the aged, hospitals, nursery schools, daycare centers, and psychiatric
hospitals.
   RADOME: An enclosure made of radio frequency-transparent materials used to
screen and/or protect wireless communication antennas.
   WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITY: For purposes of this article, a wireless
communications facility is any unstaffed facility for the transmission and/or
reception of wireless telecommunication services, usually consisting of an
antenna array, connection cables, an equipment enclosure or facility, and a
tower structure or other building or structure used to achieve the necessary
elevation.
   C.   Types Of Wireless Communication Facilities Permitted In Designated Zone
Districts: No person may place, affix, attach, mount, construct, erect,
install, develop, use, operate and maintain, or modify a wireless facility,
wireless transmission device, support structure and/or accessory equipment
within the city without meeting the permitting requirements in the table below.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, administrative collocation may be allowed as
approved in subsection J of this section.
 
Type of                   OS/FC                                    MU- L MU- M
Wireless   R-Zone IN Zone Zones CSP Zones NC Zone LTC Zone DC Zone Zone  Zone
Facility
Building
Façade    C1     S             S         S       S        S       S     S
Mounted 2
Flagpole2         C       C     C         C       C        C       C     C
Lattice
power line        C       C     C         C       C        C       C     C
tower2
Light
standard   C1     C       C     C         C       C        C       C     C
flush
mounted2
Lollypop3
Monopole
Monotree   C1     C                       C       C
Satellite
Earth
Station    P      P       P     P         P       P        P       P     P
(<1m in
dia.)
Satellite
Earth
Station           C             C         C       C        C       C     C
(>1m and
<2m in
dia.)
Satellite
Earth
Station           C             C         C       C        C       C     C
(>2m in
dia.)
Slim line         S                       S       S                      S
monopole
Stealth
installati C1     S       C     S         S       S        S       S     S
on
antenna2
Water tank
Whip (>18
in. in     P      P       P     P         P       P        P       P     P
length)
Whip
(>18 in.
and <60    C      P       C     P         P       P        P       P     P
in. in
length)
Whip
(>60 in.          C
in length)
Legend: C = Conditional Use Permit; P = Permitted, no reviews; S = Site plan
review, minor; ZC = Zoning Clearance; Blank = Prohibited
Note:
1.   The applicable type of wireless communication facility is allowed, with
the appropriate entitlement, only on sites where the primary use is
institutional.
2.   A request for a new wireless facility located on publicly owned and used
property is not required to comply with the height requirement provided that
it includes the dismantling/removal of a similar pre-existing wireless
facility at the site and is proposed on or within an existing structure. The
new wireless facility/structure must be located at a minimum of two hundred
(200) feet from all street fronting property lines and residentially-used
properties. All other design standards are applicable and improvements to the
existing structure to comply with the requirements are permissible, provided
that the existing height is maintained.
3.   See section
9-1T-11(5) for requirements.
 
   D.   Design Standards: The city shall apply the following design standards
to all proposed wireless communications facilities:
      1.   Building Facade Mounted Antenna:
         a.   An antenna less than 1.5 square feet in surface area that is
mounted to a building facade shall be treated to match or complement the
existing facade's color and texture. Such antenna shall be mounted flush to the
building or with low profile brackets, as well as skirted. The antenna's
profile shall not extend more than twelve inches (12") outward from the
building facade, and shall not extend above the height of the facade.
         b.   An antenna with a surface area greater than one and a half (1.5)
square feet that is mounted on any commercial building’s facade shall be fully
screened using materials that match the existing facade’s color and texture.
         c.   Antenna screening systems shall be architecturally integrated
with the building to the greatest possible extent as determined by the
community development director.
         d.   Antenna screens shall be fully enclosed to prevent birds from
nesting in the screen structures.
         e.   The facade mounted antennas and screening shall not extend above
the parapet and must be designed to the minimum feasible depth.
         f.   The structure’s walls, conduits, chases, or concealment type
devices that are integrated into the building’s architecture shall hide all
coaxial cables to the greatest possible extent. All exposed cable shall be
painted to match the underlying surface.
         g.   Antennas shall not extend above the height of the parapet.
Installations proposing antennas greater than the height of the parapet shall
be designed as a stealth installation.
      2.   Flagpole Antenna:
         a.   Flagpoles, not exceeding fifty-five feet (55') in height with the
antenna concealed inside the pole, are allowable in conjunction with commercial
or industrial uses.
         b.   The radome must not exceed an eighteen-inch (18") diameter.
         c.   The poles must be able to fly flags. U.S. flags that are not
removed every day at sunset must be appropriately lit.
         d.   The pole diameters shall be the minimum necessary to meet
engineering requirements to accompany and conceal the inner coaxial cabling.
      3.   Lattice Power Line Tower Antenna:
         a.   No new lattice towers shall be allowed.
         b.   Collocation on existing power line towers may be allowed subject
to city approval.
         c.   Antennas should be mounted to the vertical portion of the
structure, using low profile mounting brackets.
         d.   All pipe mounts must be concealed behind the antenna. The
accompanying coaxial cables shall be run inside the tower structure.
         e.   Accompanying communications equipment shall be located under or
close to the tower structure. The equipment shall be enclosed by an appropriate
screening wall.
      4.   Light Standard Flush Mounted Antenna:
         a.   An allowable light standard antenna shall be a low profile/flush
mounted antenna with a maximum height of thirty-five feet (35') measured from
the existing grade to the top of the antenna.
         b.   The antenna shall be painted to match the light standard, and all
cables shall be concealed within the light standard.
         c.   The radome shall not exceed eighteen inches (18") in diameter and
six and one-half feet (6.5') in height above the light pole.
      5.   Lollypop Antenna:
         a.   A lollypop antenna shall be approved only when other stealth
installation types are more intrusive, such as on steep slopes or hillsides.
Lollypop antennas are not permitted on buildings.
         b.   Such antennas shall be installed below ridgelines wherever
possible to avoid the antennas' profile appearing above a slope top.
         c.   Cross braces between individual antenna poles add additional bulk
to the installation and shall be discouraged.
         d.   Antennas and their support poles must be painted the appropriate
colors that blend with the surrounding environment.
         e.   In cases where irrigation is available, natural shrubs shall be
planted behind lollypop antennas.
         f.   In cases where irrigation is unavailable or impractical, faux
shrubs (subject to planning department review) may be installed to conceal
antenna arrays.
         g.   All coaxial cables that connect the antennas to their
accompanying communications equipment cabinet shall be underground.
         h.   The height from the base of the antenna shall not exceed fifteen
feet (15').
      6.   Monotree Antenna:
         a.   Monobroadleaf Antenna:
            (1)   A monobroadleaf antenna shall be designed for a minimum of
two (2) carriers if feasible.
            (2)   The monobroadleaf structure shall exhibit enough branches to
conceal all antennas.
            (3)   Branch dispersal shall be random, with intermingled long and
short branches, to appear natural.
            (4)   The height of branches shall exceed all antennas by at least
twelve inches (12").
            (5)   Branches shall begin a minimum of fifteen feet (15') above
the ground.
            (6)   The top of the faux tree shall be a minimum of five feet (5')
above the highest antenna.
            (7)   Branch foliage shall reflect varying colored "leaves" to
mimic a real broadleaf tree. The foliage shall be extruded in these colors
instead of painted. A sample branch with foliage must be submitted for city
approval prior to fabrication.
            (8)   A custom colored sample of bark cladding must be submitted
for city approval prior to fabrication.
            (9)   Leafed antenna socks that match the approved foliage color
must cover all antennas.
            (10)   Antennas shall be mounted using standoff mounts (frame type
mounts are unacceptable). Antenna support pipe mounts must be painted a darker
shade of green or black with a flat paint finish that reduces reflection and
mounting visibility.
            (11)   The tower (trunk) shall conceal all coaxial cables, with
access to the antenna through the structure base.
            (12)   The maximum monobroadleaf structure height is forty feet
(40').
         b.   Monopalm Antenna:
            (1)   The structure shall be designed for a minimum of two (2)
carriers if feasible.
            (2)   The monopalm structure shall exhibit enough palm fronds to
simulate a natural palm tree.
            (3)   The antenna shall be concealed within the growth pod and/or
the monopalm trunk. The top of the faux tree's palm fronds shall extend a
minimum of five feet (5') above the top of the antenna.
            (4)   Frond foliage color shall vary in olive green shades to
simulate palm tree colors. A sample palm frond shall be submitted for city
approval prior to fabrication.
            (5)   A custom colored sample of bark cladding shall be submitted
for city approval prior to fabrication.
            (6)   The tower (trunk) shall conceal all coaxial cables, with
access to the antenna through the base of the structure.
            (7)   The maximum monopalm structure height (tower portion) shall
be forty feet (40').
         c.   Monopine Antenna:
            (1)   Monopine antennas shall be designed for a minimum of two (2)
carriers.
            (2)   Monopine antennas shall have a minimum of 3.1 branches per
foot for full density coverage, limiting spacing between the branches. Seventy
(70%) percent of the branches shall be eight feet (8') or longer.
            (3)   Branch dispersal shall be random, with intermingled long and
short branches, to appear natural.
            (4)   Branches shall extend beyond all antennas by at least twelve
inches (12").
            (5)   Branches shall begin a minimum of fifteen feet (15') above
the ground.
            (6)   The top of the faux tree shall be a minimum of five feet (5')
above the highest antenna.
            (7)   Branch foliage must be multicolored with greens and browns,
matching those of a natural pine tree. The foliage must be extruded (made from
plastic) in these colors instead of painted. A sample shall be submitted for
city approval prior to fabrication.
            (8)   A bark cladding sample with custom color shall be submitted
for city approval prior to fabrication.
            (9)   Pine needle antenna socks that match the approved foliage
colors shall cover all antennas.
            (10)   Antennas shall be mounted using standoff mounts (frame type
mounts are unacceptable). Antenna support pipe mounts shall be painted a darker
shade of green or black with a flat paint finish that reduces reflection and
mounting visibility.
            (11)   Coaxial cables shall access the structure through the base.
            (12)   The maximum monopine height is forty feet (40').
      7.   Monopole Antenna:
         a.   Not allowed, except as slim line monopoles.
         b.   New antenna collocation on existing monopoles are permitted by-
right through a zoning clearance provided the modification does not
substantially change the physical dimensions of such monopole or base
structure.
      8.   Satellite Earth Station Antenna:
         a.   The following satellite earth station antennas of one (1) meter
or less in diameter are permitted as an accessory use in all zone districts and
may be installed without a zone clearance or building permit.
            (1)   An antenna that satisfies all the following criteria: is used
to receive direct broadcast satellite service, including direct to home
satellite service, or to receive or transmit fixed wireless signals via
satellite; is one (1) meter or less in diameter; and does not exceed twelve
feet (12') in height as measured from the surface on which it is mounted and
does not exceed twelve feet (12') above the height limit of the applicable zone
district.
            (2)   An antenna that satisfies all the following criteria: is used
to receive video programming services via multipoint distribution services,
including multichannel multipoint distribution services, instructional
television fixed services, and local multipoint distribution services, or to
receive or transmit fixed wireless signals other than via satellite; is one (1)
meter or less in diameter or diagonal measurement; and does not exceed twelve
feet (12') in height as measured from the surface on which it is mounted and
does not exceed twelve feet (12') above the height limit of the applicable zone
district.
            (3)   An antenna that satisfies all of the following criteria: is
used to receive television broadcast signals; is one (1) meter or less in
diameter; and does not exceed twelve feet (12') in height as measured from the
surface on which it is mounted and does not exceed twelve feet (12') above the
applicable height limit of the applicable zone district.
            (4)   For purposes of this section, the term "fixed wireless
signals" means any commercial non-broadcast communications signals transmitted
via wireless technology to and/or from a fixed customer location. This term
does not include, among other things, A.M. radio, F.M. radio, amateur (ham)
radio, or citizens band (CB) radio.
         b.   A satellite earth station antenna between one (1) and two (2)
meters in diameter that satisfies the criteria set forth below is permitted as
an accessory use, subject to approval of a conditional use permit, in any zone
district where commercial or industrial uses are generally permitted.
            (1)   The diameter of the antenna is more than one (1) meter and
less than or equal to two (2) meters.
            (2)   The antenna does not exceed twelve feet (12') in height as
measured from the surface on which it is mounted and does not exceed twelve
feet (12') above the applicable height limit of the zone district.
         c.   The following safety standards shall apply to all satellite earth
station antennas that are greater than one (1) meter in diameter in all zone
districts.
            (1)   No antenna shall be installed in a manner that impedes normal
vehicular or pedestrian circulation.
            (2)   Any mast used to elevate an antenna shall be constructed of
noncombustible and corrosive resistant materials.
            (3)   Antennas must be installed with adequate ground wire to
protect against a direct lightning strike.
            (4)   Antennas shall be separated from adjacent power lines in
accordance with electrical code requirements and other applicable laws.
            (5)   Any mast used to elevate an antenna shall be secured by a
separate safety wire in a direction away from adjacent power lines and other
potential hazards.
            (6)   To the extent feasible, all cables, wires, and similar
electrical transmission devices associated with the antenna shall be placed
underground.
            (7)   No antenna or any supporting parts shall encroach into the
public right-of-way.
            (8)   Antennas shall be maintained in good repair and condition and
in compliance with the building code, electrical code, fire code, and other
applicable laws.
      9.   Slim Line Monopole Antenna:
         a.   Antennas and cables shall be mounted inside the structures.
Radomes exceeding eighteen inches (18") in diameter shall not be allowed.
Overall monopole height shall not exceed fifty-five feet (55').
         b.   The structure's coloring shall be light gray, olive green, light
blue, or another appropriate color to blend with the antenna's predominant
background, as determined through the conditional use permit process.
      10.   Stealth Installation Antenna:
         a.   Faux Chimney Antenna:
            (1)   Faux chimney antennas may be allowed, depending on the extent
of the site application's integration with the existing building's
architecture.
            (2)   The number, height, width, and depth of the antennas must
balance with the existing structure's bulk and scale.
            (3)   The antenna must not exceed ten feet (10') above the maximum
roof height for all level roofed buildings and must not exceed the maximum roof
height of a peak roofed building.
         b.   Rooftop Screen Wall Antenna:
            (1)   Antennas must not exceed ten feet (10') above the maximum
roof height for level roofed buildings.
            (2)   Walls must be set back at least three feet (3') from the
roof's edge.
            (3)   Walls are required to match or complement the building
facade's color and texture.
         c.   Steeple Antenna:
            (1)   Antennas mounted inside existing steeples can utilize the
full space.
            (2)   Antennas must match the existing structure's color and
texture and be fully screened.
            (3)   Any modification to the steeple's outward appearance must be
integrated with the overall structural design.
            (4)   New steeple construction on an existing structure must be
consistent with the current architectural design and be no more than forty-five
feet (45') in height as measured from the existing grade to the top of the
steeple.
         d.   Clock Tower:
            (1)   A clock tower installation must be appropriate for the
location and must be designed for a minimum of two (2) carriers.
            (2)   The installation is allowed, up to forty-five feet (45') in
height, depending on the surrounding environment.
            (3)   The design must be consistent with the environmental and
built setting in which it is located.
            (4)   In most cases, use of a clock tower stealth antenna shall be
limited to institutional sites and commercial projects greater than two acres
in size where the clock tower is architecturally consistent with the design of
the development and the location on site appears to have been considered with
the original development's site plan.
      11.   Water Tank Antenna:
         a.   Facade mounted antennas on a water tank structure shall not
extend above the top of the tank.
         b.   Antennas and coaxial cables shall be painted to match the color
of the structure.
      12.   Whip Antenna:
         a.   Whip antennas eighteen inches (18") or less in length are
allowable on any structure in any zone.
         b.   Antennas greater than eighteen inches (18") but less than sixty
inches (60") in length are allowable on any commercial or industrial building
provided that the antenna does not exceed the roofline by more than ten feet
(10').
         c.   A whip antenna's base must be set back from the roof's edge by a
distance equal to its height.
   E.   Equipment Location and Screening Systems: All equipment installation
types require all coaxial, telephone, and electric cables/wires to be
concealed.
      1.   Equipment Vault: Belowground equipment vaults are encouraged for all
wireless installations at park facilities, parking lots, and wireless
facilities in the public right of way.
      2.   Tenant Improvement: Tenant improvement is encouraged for all
wireless installations on existing buildings, where enough space is available
within the building's interior. If enough space is not available within the
existing building structure, equipment room additions are allowed subject to
standard building/zoning codes. Equipment room addition design is required to
be consistent with the existing building's architecture and must be effectively
mitigated with the required landscape setbacks.
      3.   Prefabricated Equipment Shelter:
         a.   These shelters are discouraged for most wireless installation
applications.
         b.   Prefabricated equipment shelters can be utilized in commercial
areas where the shelter is not visible to any public view.
      4.   Site Constructed Equipment Shelter: These shelters are encouraged,
provided they are architecturally integrated into the surrounding environment.
The height of the equipment shelter must not exceed that which is consistent
with the adjacent building. Air conditioning condensing units (A/C units) must
be located on the ground adjacent to the structure or mounted on the roof. A/
C units must be fully screened and must not exceed any applicable noise
ordinances. Landscape standards also apply.
      5.   Outdoor Communications Equipment Cabinet: These cabinets must be
located within equipment enclosures (except communications equipment in the
public right of way), with sufficiently high walls that completely conceal the
equipment cabinets from public view. Equipment enclosures must have lattice
type covering to prevent unauthorized access. All city screening and mitigation
requirements also apply.
      6.   Rooftop Equipment Platform:
         a.   These platforms must be fully screened and, if possible,
integrated with a rooftop antenna installation. Equipment screening height must
not exceed ten feet (10') above the maximum roof height of level roofed
buildings; others are subject to staff review.
         b.   In evaluating the appropriate design for a particular property,
existing uses of the property, landscaping and optimal location of the facility
must be considered.
   F.   Regulation of Facilities:
      1.   Wireless communication facilities allowable without review and
approval of the community development director or issuance of a zoning
clearance include the following:
         a.   In residential zones, a whip antenna of eighteen inches (18") or
less in height.
         b.   In nonresidential zones, a whip antenna of sixty inches (60") or
less in height.
         c.   In all zones, a satellite earth station antenna of one (1) meter
or less in diameter.
      2.   Wireless communication facilities requiring community development
director approval of a minor site plan review include the following:
         a.   Building facade antennas in the IN, CSP, NC, LTC, DC, MU-L, and
MU-M zones.
         b.   Slim line monopoles in the IN, NC, LTC, and MU-M zones.
         c.   Stealth installations in the IN, CSP, NC, LTC, DC, MU-L, and MU-
M zones.
      3.   Except where prohibited, all other wireless communication antennas
require planning commission approval of a conditional use permit prior to
installation.
      4.   All permitted antennas must comply with the city building code,
electrical code, fire code, and other applicable laws.
   G.   City Use of Consultants: The director may require the applicant to
provide an authorization to permit the city to hire an independent, qualified
consultant to evaluate any technical aspect of the proposed use, including
issues involving radio frequency emissions, alternative designs, and
alternative sites. Any authorization for this purpose must include an agreement
by the applicant to reimburse the city for all reasonable costs associated with
the consultation. Any proprietary information disclosed to the city or the
consultant is deemed not to be a public record and must remain confidential and
not to be disclosed to any third party without the express consent of the
applicant, unless otherwise required by law.
   H.   Enforcement: The city may withhold the issuance of business licenses,
building permits, grading permits, certificates of occupancy, and other land
use entitlements and may issue stop work orders for a WCF project failing to
comply with the provisions of this article. If any improvements authorized by
this article are either rendered unusable or discontinued, the property owner
and tenant may be subject to enforcement procedures in compliance with Title 4,
"Law Enforcement", of this code.
   I.   Radio Frequency Emissions Compliance: Upon installation of the
facility, the applicant must demonstrate that the project will not result in
levels of radio frequency emissions that exceed federal communications
commission standards, including FCC office of engineering technology (OET)
bulletin 65, "Evaluating Compliance With FCC Guidelines For Human Exposure To
Radiofrequency Electromagnetic Fields", as amended. Additionally, if the
director determines the wireless telecommunications facility, as constructed,
may emit radio frequency emissions that are likely to exceed federal
communications commission uncontrolled/general population standards in the FCC
office of engineering technology (OET) bulletin 65, "Evaluating Compliance With
FCC Guidelines For Human Exposure To Radiofrequency Electromagnetic Fields", as
amended, in areas accessible by the general population, the director may
require post-installation testing to determine whether to require further
mitigation of radio frequency emissions. The cost of any such testing and
mitigation must be borne by the applicant. Applications for amateur radio
antennas or antennas installed for home entertainment purposes are exempt from
this requirement.
   J.   Collocation: The collocation of antennas on a single support structure
is encouraged. This includes collocation with other wireless telecommunications
antenna facilities including those of public and quasi-public agencies using
similar technology unless specific technical constraints preclude collocation.
      1.   Wireless Facilities And Wireless Transmission Devices: No person may
place, affix, attach, mount, construct, erect, install, develop, use, operate
and maintain, or modify a wireless facility, wireless transmission device,
support structure and/or accessory equipment within the city without a
conditional use permit approved by the planning commission following a noticed
public hearing on the matter. Notwithstanding the foregoing, administrative
collocation may be allowed as approved in subsection J.3 of this section.
      2.   Collocation - General: No person may collocate a wireless facility
or wireless transmission device, including related accessory equipment, without
meeting the requirements of subsection C of this section. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, administrative collocation is allowed as approved in the following
manner.
      3.   Administrative Collocation: Pursuant to Section 6409(a) of the
Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012, if, following the
submission of a completed application form and all required materials, the
community development director determines that a proposed collocation qualifies
as an “administrative collocation” as defined herein, such proposal does not
require a conditional use permit but must be approved by the community
development director through the issuance of a zoning clearance permit. The
foregoing notwithstanding, an administrative collocation approval must be
subordinate and subject to the conditions of approval associated with the
wireless telecommunications collocation facility to which it relates and
administrative collocation must not defeat the existing concealment elements of
the facility to which it relates or otherwise violate or be inconsistent with
the conditions associated with the prior approval of the facility to which it
relates (unless the inconsistency does not exceed the “substantial change”
thresholds identified in federal communications commission regulations or
orders). Also, the life of a zoning clearance approval may not exceed the life
of the underlying conditional use permit or other underlying discretionary
authorization corresponding to the wireless telecommunications collocation
facility upon which the proposed wireless transmission device and corresponding
accessory equipment will be placed or installed.
   K.   Justification Study And Visual Impacts Analysis: The applicant must
submit a justification study indicating the rationale for selecting the
proposed use, a detailed explanation of the coverage gap that the proposed use
would serve, and how the proposed use is the least intrusive means for the
applicant to provide wireless service. The applicant must also submit a visual
impacts analysis including scaled elevation diagrams which:
      1.   Demonstrates the potential visual impacts of any proposed wireless
communication facility, support structure, or accessory equipment;
      2.   Includes before and after photo simulations from various locations
and/or angles from which the public would typically view the site and includes
a map depicting where the photos were taken; and
      3.   Where the wireless communication facility would be readily visible
from the public right-of-way or from surrounding properties, the application
must include an explanation as to why, if screening or other techniques to
minimize the visibility are not proposed, such approaches to reduce the
visibility of the wireless communication facility would not be feasible or
effective.
   L.   Public Rights-of-Way: See Title 6, Chapter 4, Article A of this code
for regulations on telecommunications facilities and wireless
telecommunications facilities in public rights-of-way.
   M.   Abandonment of Facility, Notice to City: A wireless service provider
must provide written notice by certified U.S. mail to the director in the event
the wireless service provider intends to terminate or otherwise abandon its use
of a wireless communication facility or the wireless service provider is
required to discontinue its use of a wireless communication facility. Such
notice must be mailed not less than thirty (30) calendar days prior to the
contemplated or anticipated cessation of use; must state the contemplated or
anticipated date upon which the use will end; and must state the date upon
which the wireless communication facility will be completely dismantled and
physically removed from the real property parcel where it is sited or located.
      1.   Dismantling and Removal of Equipment: With respect to the
contemplated abandonment, termination or discontinuance of use of a wireless
communication facility, the dismantling and physical removal must include the
dismantling and physical removal of all telecommunications facilities, all
support structures and all accessory equipment from the real property parcel
where such items were sited. With respect to the contemplated abandonment,
termination, or discontinuance of use of a wireless communication facility, the
dismantling and physical removal must include the dismantling and physical
removal of the wireless transmission device and all corresponding support
structures and/or accessory equipment that do not serve wireless communication
facilities whose use is ongoing. Physical removal of an entire wireless
communication facility also entails and includes the restoration of the site to
its original condition prior to the installation of the wireless communication
facility, excluding any landscape improvements.
      2.   Failure to Timely Dismantle or Remove: If the dismantling and
physical removal of a wireless communication facility in the manner
contemplated under this chapter is not completed by the date indicated in the
notice referenced in this chapter, the director may issue notice to the
wireless service provider and the owner of the real property parcel that the
wireless facility or wireless transmission device must be completely dismantled
and removed within sixty (60) calendar days from the dismantling and removal
date originally noticed by the wireless service provider this chapter. If
provider fails to remove the abandoned facility within sixty (60) days after
such notice, the city may undertake to do so and recover the actual and
reasonable expenses of doing so from the provider, its successors and/or
assigns.
      3.   Constructive Abandonment of Facilities: A wireless facility or
individual wireless transmission device that remains inoperative or unused for
a period in excess of one-hundred and eighty (180) calendar days will be deemed
abandoned for purposes of this section. The foregoing shall apply
notwithstanding any assignment of ownership or lease rights. After one-hundred
and eighty (180) calendar days of inoperability or nonuse, the director may
issue notice to the wireless service provider and the owner of the real
property parcel that the wireless communication facility must be completely
dismantled and removed within sixty (60) calendar days.
      4.   Responsibility for Dismantling and Removal: The dismantling and
physical removal of wireless communication facilities, support structures, and/
or accessory equipment is the joint and several responsibility of the wireless
service provider and the owner of the real property parcel upon which the
wireless communication facility is sited.
      5.   Nuisance. If an abandoned, inoperative or unused wireless
communication facility is not dismantled and physically removed within any time
period required under this Section, the same shall be deemed a public nuisance
and any unexpired permit or authorization to use, operate and/or maintain the
wireless communication facility or the wireless transmission device may be
revoked.
   N.   Transfer of Ownership. Upon transfer of an approved wireless
communication facility or any rights under the applicable permit or approval,
the permittee of the facility must within thirty (30) days of such transfer
provide written notification to the director of the date of the transfer and
the identity of the transferee.
      1.   The assignee must provide written acknowledgement and assumption of
all duties, requirements, restrictions and responsibilities applicable to the
use, operation and maintenance of the subject wireless facility or subject
wireless transmission device as provided under this chapter or any conditional
use permit or other approval issued under this chapter.
      2.   The director may require submission of any supporting materials or
documentation necessary to determine that the facility is in compliance with
the existing permit or approval and all of its conditions including, but not
limited to, statements, photographs, plans, drawings, and analysis by a
qualified engineer demonstrating compliance with all applicable regulations and
standards of the city, FCC, and California Public Utilities Commission.
   O.   Update of Wireless Communications Facility Regulations: As the wireless
industry and its services evolve, its equipment will change as well. The WCF
regulations will need periodic updates to incorporate the wireless industry’s
changing environment and the progress made toward “stealthing” antennas and
equipment. (Ord. 19-1036; Ord. 24-1077, 11-6-2024)
9-1T-12: MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS:
   A.   Applicability: This section applies to massage establishments as
defined in Title 5, Chapter 2, Article E of this code. This section does not
apply to massage therapy provided as an incidental use.
   B.   Location: Massage establishments are permitted in the following zones,
subject to approval of a conditional use permit: LTC, NC, MU-L, MU-M zones. The
Land Use table in the Crossroads Specific Plan provides for the regulation and
location of massage uses in that area. Massage uses are prohibited in the
residential, DC, OS, and M zones.
   C.   Separation: No massage establishment may be located within five hundred
feet (500') of another massage establishment, as measured from the property
lines of the properties on which the massage establishments are located.
   D.   Buffering From R-1 Zone: No massage establishment may be located within
one hundred feet (100') of a property that is zoned R-1, as measured from the
property line of the property on which the massage business is located to the
property line of the nearest R-1 property. This requirement does not apply to
massage establishments located on lots with street frontage on Last Tunas Drive
between Kauffman Avenue and Baldwin Avenue.
   E.   Incidental Use: Massage therapy as defined in Title 5, Chapter 2,
Article E of this code is permitted as an incidental use in the CSP, DC, LTC,
and NC zones subject to either item 1 or 2 below:
      1.   The massage therapy is incidental to a medical office, state
licensed hospital, nursing home, or state licensed physical or mental health
facility where the massage therapy is provided exclusively by physicians,
surgeons, chiropractors, osteopaths, naturopaths, podiatrists, acupuncturists,
physical therapists, registered nurses or vocational nurses duly licensed to
practice their respective profession in the state.
      2.   The massage therapy is incidental to a barbershop, beauty parlor,
beauty salon, hair salon, day spa, or nail salon where the massage therapy is
provided exclusively by barbers, cosmetologists, estheticians, or manicurists
licensed to practice their respective profession under the laws of the state
while performing activities within the scope of their license, provided that
such massage is limited solely to the neck, face, scalp, feet, hands, arms, and
lower limbs up to the knees of their patrons. (Ord. 19-1036)
9-1T-13: ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS AND JUNIOR ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS:
A.   Applicability: Accessory dwelling units are permitted in any zone that
allows residential uses and is developed with residential uses. Junior
accessory dwelling units are permitted in R-1, R-2, and R-3 zones where there
is an existing or proposed single-family dwelling.
B.   Application:
   1.   Ministerial Review: A proposal of an accessory dwelling unit and/or a
junior accessory dwelling unit will be reviewed ministerially.
   2.   Length Of Review:
      a.   Applications will be approved or denied within sixty (60) days when
a complete application is filed for an accessory dwelling unit or a junior
accessory dwelling unit associated with an existing single-family or an
existing multi-family dwelling.
      b.   If the permit application for an accessory dwelling unit or a junior
accessory dwelling unit is submitted with a permit application for a new
single-family dwelling, the City may delay acting on the permit application for
the accessory dwelling unit or the junior accessory dwelling unit until the
permit application for the new single-family dwelling is approved.
   3.   Complete Application: The length of review begins when the application
is complete. To be considered a complete application, the architectural
drawings for the project must provide necessary details and information to
allow a decision to be made. If a complete application cannot be provided, the
applicant can request the City to conduct a pre-application review and pay an
applicable fee before completing the application.
C.   Single Family Sites: The following rules apply to certain accessory
dwelling units and junior accessory dwelling units on lots with a single-family
dwelling unit.
   1.   Junior Accessory Dwelling Units: The following standards apply to all
junior accessory dwelling units.
      a.   Number: There may only be one (1) junior accessory dwelling unit per
lot. The junior accessory dwelling unit must be contained within the walls of
an existing or proposed single-family residence.
      b.   Junior Accessory Dwelling Units In The Rear: A junior accessory
dwelling unit must be located in the rear half of an existing or proposed
single-family residence, unless such design is infeasible.
      c.   Studios, Only: A junior accessory dwelling unit is limited to a
studio unit.
      d.   Owner Occupied: The owner must occupy the property, unless the owner
is a governmental agency, land trust, or housing organization.
      e.   Maximum Size: The junior accessory dwelling unit must be no more
than five hundred (500) square feet.
      f.   Separate Entrance: The junior accessory dwelling unit must include a
separate entrance from the main entrance to the proposed or existing single-
family residence.
      g.   Efficiency Kitchen: The junior accessory dwelling unit must include
an efficiency kitchen.
      h.   Deed Restriction: Building permits will not be finalized until the
owner of the property records and executes a deed restriction on the sale of
the junior accessory dwelling unit separate from the sale of the single-family
residence. The deed restriction must be in a form acceptable to the City and
include:
      (1)   A statement that the deed restriction may be enforced against
future purchasers; and
      (2)   A requirement that the owner reside in either the remaining portion
of the structure or the newly created junior accessory dwelling unit.
   2.   Internal Accessory Dwelling Units And Junior Accessory Dwelling Units:
The following standards apply to internal accessory dwelling units and internal
junior accessory dwelling units:
      a.   Number: One accessory dwelling unit or a junior accessory dwelling
unit is allowed on a lot with a proposed or existing single-family dwelling.
      b.   Limited Expansions For Internal Units: If the proposed accessory
dwelling unit or junior accessory dwelling unit is within: (a) the proposed
space of a new single-family dwelling; or (b) the existing space of an existing
single-family dwelling or accessory structure, the accessory structure may be
expanded no more than one hundred fifty (150) square feet, for the limited use
of accommodating ingress and egress.
      c.   Independent Exterior Door: The accessory dwelling unit or junior
accessory dwelling unit must provide an exterior door independent from the
proposed or existing single-family dwelling.
   3.   Detached, New Construction, Accessory Dwelling Units: The following
standards apply to detached, new construction accessory dwelling units.
      a.   Four-Foot Setbacks: The minimum side, street side, and rear yard
setback is four feet (4').
      b.   Minimum Size: The accessory dwelling unit may not be more than eight
hundred (800) square feet.
      c.   Maximum Height: The maximum height of a detached accessory dwelling
unit must not exceed sixteen feet (16'), measured from the natural grade to the
highest roof ridge or parapet. The height of the top plate must not exceed nine
feet (9').
D.   Multi-Family Zones And Uses: Accessory dwelling units are allowed on lots
zoned for multi-family residential uses (including residential mixed use) and
with an existing multi-family structure or structures. The following standards
apply:
   1.   Internal Accessory Dwelling Units:
      a.   Location: The accessory dwelling units must be located within
portions of the existing multi-family dwelling structures that are not used as
livable space. This may include, but is not limited to, storage rooms, boiler
rooms, passageways, attics, basements, or garages.
      b.   State Building Standards: Each accessory dwelling unit must comply
with state building standards for dwellings.
      c.   Number: A multi-family site may contain at least one (1) accessory
dwelling unit. The number of additional accessory dwelling units may not result
in an increase of more than twenty-five percent (25%) over the existing density
of the site.
   2.   Detached Accessory Dwelling Units:
      a.   Number: No more than two (2) detached accessory dwelling units are
allowed on lots that contain the existing multifamily dwellings.
      b.   Maximum Height: The maximum height of a detached accessory dwelling
unit must not exceed sixteen feet (16'), measured from the natural grade to the
highest roof ridge or parapet. The height of the top plate must not exceed nine
feet (9').
      c.   Four- Foot Setbacks: The minimum setbacks for the rear and sides is
four feet (4').
E.   Standards For All Accessory Dwelling Units:
   1.   Application: The development of accessory dwelling units or junior
accessory dwelling units must comply with all other applicable zoning standards
and specific plans standards, except otherwise modified by this Section or
state law.
   2.   Minimum Size: No accessory dwelling unit may be smaller than two
hundred twenty (220) square feet.
   3.   Maximum Size:
      a.   Studio Accessory Dwelling Units: Accessory dwelling units designed
as a studio may not exceed six hundred (600) square feet. This limitation does
not apply to junior accessory dwelling units.
      b.   One Bedroom Accessory Dwelling Units: One (1) bedroom accessory
dwelling units may not exceed eight hundred fifty (850) square feet.
      c.   More Than One Bedroom Accessory Dwelling Units: Accessory dwelling
units may not exceed one thousand (1,000) square feet.
   4.   Development Standards That Preclude ADUs: The following development
standards set forth in the zoning code may not be applied to preclude the
construction of an accessory dwelling unit that is at least eight hundred (800)
square feet:
      a.   Floor area ratio;
      b.   Lot coverage;
      c.   An accessory use must not exceed fifty percent (50%) the size of the
primary dwelling; and
      d.   Open space.
   5.   Maintaining Existing Setbacks: Existing side, street side, and rear
yard setbacks may be maintained for any existing garage or other permitted
existing accessory structure.
   6.   Shared Utilities: The accessory dwelling unit may share utility
connections and meters with the primary dwelling or may be separately connected
and metered.
   7.   Park Construction Fees: Accessory dwelling units of seven hundred fifty
(750) square feet or more are subject to park construction fees, to be assessed
in proportion to the square footage of the primary dwelling unit.
   8.   Fire Sprinklers: An automatic residential fire sprinkler system is
required for all accessory dwelling units. However, the installation of fire
sprinklers are not required in an accessory dwelling unit if sprinklers are not
required for the primary dwelling.
   9.   Certificates Of Occupancy: A certificate of occupancy for an accessory
dwelling unit should not be issued before the certificate of occupancy for the
primary dwelling.
   10.   Parking Requirements:
      a.   One (1) open parking space is required for a detached accessory
dwelling unit involving new square footage and having at least one (1) bedroom.
The space may be provided in tandem on an existing driveway.
      b.   New parking spaces for an accessory dwelling unit may be located in
the side and rear setbacks provided that a three (3)-foot landscaped buffer
will be created along the property line(s).
      c.   When a garage, carport, or covered parking structure is demolished
in conjunction with the construction of an accessory dwelling unit or converted
to an accessory dwelling unit, replacement parking is not required.
      d.   If a house addition is also proposed for the primary dwelling in
conjunction with a new accessory dwelling unit, replacement of the off-street
parking must first be provided for the primary dwelling.
      e.   Notwithstanding the parking standard for accessory dwelling units,
parking will not be required for an accessory dwelling unit in any of the
following instances:
      (1)   The accessory dwelling unit is located within one-half (½) mile of
a public transit.
      (2)   The accessory dwelling unit is located within an architecturally
and historically significant historic district.
      (3)   The accessory dwelling unit is part of the proposed or existing
primary residence or an accessory structure.
      (4)   When on-street parking permits are required but not offered to the
occupant of the accessory dwelling unit.
      (5)   When there is a car share vehicle located within one (1) block of
the accessory dwelling unit.
F.   Design Standards: The following design standards apply if feasible. A
design standard will be considered infeasible if implementing it will
physically prohibit the creation of an ADU or JADU.
   1.   Doors Cannot Be Visible: The doors to all accessory dwelling units and
junior accessory dwelling units may not be visible from the public right-of-
way. If the accessory dwelling unit or junior accessory dwelling unit is
located on the second floor of the main dwelling, the stairs leading to the
unit must be located on the interior of the structure.
   2.   Garage Door Removal: When converting a garage into an accessory
dwelling unit or junior accessory dwelling unit the garage door must be removed
and sealed using a material the same as that of the adjoining wall material.
   3.   Front Entries: Accessory dwelling units and junior accessory dwelling
units must be provided with a covered front porch or a recessed entry. The area
may not be less than three feet (3') deep measured to the post if it is a porch
or to the wall if it is a recessed entry.
   4.   Walls And Fences: All attached and detached accessory dwelling units
must have a view obscuring six-foot (6') high wall or fence in good repair
along the side and rear property lines nearest the accessory dwelling units.
   5.   Open Space: Accessory dwelling units should have a minimum of four
hundred (400) square feet of open space with dimensions of no less than ten
feet (10'). The open space should be directly accessible to the accessory
dwelling unit.
   6.   Hedges: All attached and detached accessory dwelling units must have
fifteen (15)-gallon privacy hedges planted five feet (5') on center along the
side and rear property lines nearest the structure. This is not required for
the conversion of an existing structure to an ADU if the setbacks are less than
five feet (5').
   7.   Further Subdivision: The following are prohibited:
      a.   Rooms not accessible to all occupants;
      b.   Bedrooms with exit doors; and
      c.   Wet bars in bedrooms or in a common living area.
   8.   Types Of Rooms: An accessory dwelling unit can only include a kitchen,
bedroom(s), and one (1) of the following: living room, family room, den,
office, rumpus room, etc.
   9.   Number Of Bathrooms: The number of bathrooms (not including powder
rooms) cannot exceed the number of bedrooms. A powder room may be allowed if it
is accessed from a common living area. A powder room is a bathroom that
includes a sink and a toilet and does not include a bathtub and shower.
   10.   Common Living Areas: An accessory dwelling unit must have no more than
one (1) common living area. A common living area is a room meant to be shared
and used by all occupants and generally does not require a door to access.
Examples of common living areas include living rooms, family rooms, dens,
sunrooms, enclosed porches, rumpus rooms, dining rooms, recreation rooms, and
the like.
   11.   Existing Architectural Styles: All accessory dwelling units must be
consistent with the architectural style of the main dwelling including but not
limited to the roof pitch, articulation, window size, proportion of window
units to wall size, direction of opening, muntin pattern, exterior building
materials, lighting fixtures, garage door design, and paint colors.
   12.   Exterior Doors: No more than one (1) exterior door, not including a
vehicle garage door, may be provided for the accessory dwelling unit.
   13.   Laundry Facilities: All proposed laundry facilities must be located
within a structure and only accessible from the interior of the structure.
G.   Other Requirements: The following standards will apply to accessory
dwelling units and junior accessory dwelling units as stated below.
   1.   Short-Term Rentals: Rentals of less than a month are prohibited for
accessory dwelling units, junior accessory dwelling units, and the primary
residential dwellings associated with accessory dwelling units or junior
accessory dwelling units.
   2.   Existing Garages: Garages and carports constructed after January 1,
2020 cannot be converted to accessory dwelling units or junior accessory
dwelling units unless the site is modified to meet the off-street parking
requirement and floor area ratio.
   3.   Easements: An accessory dwelling unit should not be constructed within
an easement area.
H.   Conflict Provisions: Except as expressly provided in this section, to the
extent that any provisions of this code conflict with any provisions of this
section, the provisions of this section will control. To the extent any
provisions of this section conflict with state law, the mandatory requirements
of state law will control, but only to the extent legally required. (Ord. 19-
1036; amd. Ord. 20-1040U; Ord. 20-1048)
9-1T-14: UNATTENDED COLLECTION BOXES:
A.   General Provisions:
   1.   Violations: Failure to comply with any of the provisions of this
section is declared to be prima facie evidence of an existing violation and a
declared public nuisance, and may be abated by the director in accordance with
the provisions of Title 4, Chapter 2, Article C of this code (public
nuisances). Any person in violation may be subject to administrative penalties,
citations, civil action, or other legal remedies.
   2.   Responsibility: The property owner and the UCB operator (operator) have
joint and several liability for public nuisance conditions and compliance with
this section, including fees, administrative citations, civil actions, and/or
legal remedies relating to a UCB. The property owner remains liable for any
violation of duties imposed by this section even if the property owner has, by
agreement, imposed on the operator the duty of complying with the provisions of
this section.
   3.   Definitions: The following definitions apply only to this section.
 
                                    A person who is authorized by the property
                                    owner or UCB operator to act on their
                                    behalf to be the applicant for a UCB
                                    permit. To be considered an agent, a person
                                    must be given express written authorization
AGENT:                              on a form provided by the city to apply
                                    specifically for a UCB permit. For this
                                    section, a person who is only given general
                                    authorization to act for various activities
                                    and transactions regarding a property is
                                    not considered an agent.
DIRECTOR:                           The Director of the Community Development
                                    Department or their designee.
                                    The conditions as set forth in Title 4,
NUISANCE OR PUBLIC NUISANCE:        Chapter 2, Article C, "Prohibited Public
                                    Nuisance Conditions", of this code.
OPERATOR:                           A person or entity who operates or
                                    maintains any UCB.
PROPERTY OWNER:                     The owner of real property on which any UCB
                                    is or is proposed to be placed.
                                    Temple City's annually renewable permit
UCB PERMIT:                         required to place, operate, maintain, or
                                    allow a UCB within the city.
UNATTENDED COLLECTION BOXES (UCBs): As defined in 9-1A-14 of this Code.
                                    A UCB established without a valid UCB
UNPERMITTED UCB:                    permit or established prior to the
                                    effective date of ordinance 17-1026.
 
B.   Permit Requirement and Process:
   1.   Permit Required For UCBs: Except for UCBs described in subsection
B.1.b., "Enclosed Or Accessory To The Principal Activity", of this section, it
is unlawful to place, operate, maintain, or allow a UCB on any property unless
the parcel owner, agent, or operator first obtains a UCB permit from the city.
      a.   Second UCBs: A separate UCB permit is required for each UCB unless a
second UCB is required for overflow items per subsection C.1.k., "One UCB Per
Parcel", of this section, in which case the permit for the first UCB can
include the second UCB on a parcel.
      b.   Enclosed or Accessory to The Principal Activity: UCBs that are
either enclosed within a main building or are accessory to a principal activity
on a property owned or leased by the operator would not require a UCB permit.
However, UCBs that are accessory to a principal activity on a property owned or
leased by the operator must meet all other requirements of this section, except
the requirements contained in subsections C.1.a. through C.1.c. of this section
(location requirements).
      c.   Applicant and Transferring Applications: The UCB permit applicant
must include the UCB operator and the permit may not be transferred to another
person or entity.
      d.   Decisionmaker: Decisions regarding UCB permit applications will be
made by the Director.
   2.   Application Requirements: The UCB permit application must be made on a
form provided by the Community Development Department. All applications must be
filed with the Community Development Department and include:
      a.   A signed agreement stating that the property owner and operator must
abide by all the processes and requirements described in this section;
      b.   A non-refundable application fee in an amount set by city council
resolution;
      c.   A signed affidavit, under penalty of perjury, stating whether the
UCB existed at the proposed location prior to the effective date of ordinance
number 17-1026;
      d.   Signed authorization from the property owner allowing placement of
the UCB;
      e.   Signed acknowledgement of responsibility from the property owner and
the operator for joint and several liability for violations of conditions or
regulations, and public nuisances relating to the UCB;
      f.   Proof of general liability insurance of at least one million dollars
($1,000,000) covering the applicant's UCB and naming the City of Temple City as
an additional insured;
      g.   Proof of an active business license with the City of Temple City,
unless the property owner or operator is exempt from business licensing
requirements;
      h.   Name, address, email, website, and telephone number of the UCB
operator and property owner, including twenty-four (24)-hour contact
information;
      i.   Vicinity map showing:
         (1)   The proposed location;
         (2)   The distance between the site and all existing UCBs within one
thousand feet (1,000') of the proposed UCB location;
         (3)   Photographs of the location and adjacent properties;
      j.   Site plan containing the following:
         (1)   Location and dimensions of all parcel boundaries;
         (2)   Location of all buildings;
         (3)   Proposed UCB location;
         (4)   Distance between the proposed UCB and parcel lines buildings;
and
         (5)   Location and dimension of all existing and proposed driveways,
garages, carports, parking spaces, maneuvering aisles, pavement, and striping/
marking;
      k.   Description and diagram of the proposed locking mechanism;
      l.   Maintenance plan (including graffiti removal, pick-up schedule, and
litter and trash removal on and around the UCB) that is enough to prevent
public nuisance conditions from remaining nearby the UCB; and
      m.   Any other reasonable information regarding time, place, and manner
of operation, placement, or maintenance that the director requires to evaluate
the proposal consistent with the requirements of this section.
   3.   UCB Permit Expiration and Renewal: Unless renewed as described below,
each UCB permit will expire annually on the anniversary of its date of
issuance.
      a.   Renewal Permit Application Timing: A UCB operator may apply for
permit renewal by submitting to the community development department at least
thirty (30) days prior to the expiration of the active UCB permit. Late
submittals may be processed as new applications.
      b.   Contents of Renewal Permit Application: The UCB permit renewal
application must be made on a form provided by the community development
department. All applications must be filed with the community development
department and include the items listed in subsections B.2.a. through B.2.m. of
this section.
      c.   Timing of Review: The Director will either approve or deny the
renewal of a UCB permit within thirty (30) days of receipt of the complete
renewal application and payment of the renewal fee. The failure of the
community development department to act within this timeframe will constitute
approval of the UCB permit renewal.
      d.   Findings for Review: The director will approve the renewal of a UCB
permit if the director finds that no circumstances existed during the term of
the UCB permit, or existed at any time during the review of the application for
renewal, that are inconsistent with any criteria required for approval of a new
UCB permit as specified in subsection B.4., "Findings For Approval And
Renewal", of this section or that would justify the revocation of the UCB
permit as specified in subsection D, "Revocation Of Permit", of this section.
      e.   Removal If Permit Expires or Is Not Renewed: If the permit expires
and is not renewed, the collection box must be removed from the real property
within fifteen (15) days after expiration of the permit.
   4.   Findings for Approval and Renewal: The director may not issue a UCB
permit or renewal unless each of the following is true:
      a.   The applicant has submitted a complete and accurate application
accompanied by the applicable fee;
      b.   There are no open citations, unpaid fines or unresolved violations
or complaints related to any UCB managed by the proposed operator;
      c.   All existing unpermitted UCBs that are managed by the proposed
operator have been removed or the director at his discretion may allow an
unpermitted UCB to remain during the permit process if it otherwise complies
with the requirements of this section;
      d.   Any verified public nuisance on the subject property has been abated
and any case of a complaint to the city regarding nuisance conditions on the
subject property has been closed; and
      e.   The proposal is consistent with all the requirements of this
section.
      f.   For renewals, the site does not have a history of being an
attractive nuisance even if incidents of nuisances were abated. For this
subsection, "history of attractive nuisance" means three (3) verified nuisance
complaints in the previous twelve (12) months.
   5.   Time Limit for Final Decision: The director will provide a written
decision regarding the placement of a UCB within sixty (60) days of the
submission of a complete application for a UCB permit.
C.   Standards and Requirements:
   1.   Location Requirements:
      a.   Allowed Zones: UCBs are only allowed in the following zones, subject
to the requirements of this section:
         (1)   LTC;
         (2)   NC;
         (3)   CSP;
         (4)   I;
         (5)   MU-L; and
         (6)   MU-M.
      b.   Buffering from Residences: No UCB may be located within fifty feet
(50') of a residential dwelling unit, as measured from nearest point of the
dwelling unit to the UCB.
      c.   Separation: No UCB may be located within five hundred feet (500') of
another UCB, as measured from the property lines of the properties on which the
UCBs are located, except for those UCBs exempted by subsection B.1.a., "Second
UCBs", of this section.
      d.   Dwelling Units: No UCB may be allowed on a lot with a residential
dwelling unit.
      e.   Vacant Lots: No UCB may be allowed on a lot without a main building.
      f.   Occupied Structure: A UCB is only permitted on a lot that also
contains a main building that contains at least one (1) legal operating
business or other ongoing activity, not including a commercial parking lot.
      g.   Prohibited Locations: UCBs are prohibited:
         (1)   In the public right-of-way and within twenty feet (20') of the
public right-of-way;
         (2)   Five feet (5') from any property line; and
         (3)   In a landscaped area.
      h.   No Blocking: UCBs cannot block or impede access to:
         (1)   Required parking or driveways;
         (2)   Pedestrian routes;
         (3)   Emergency vehicle routes;
         (4)   Building entries or exits;
         (5)   Required handicapped accessibility routes;
         (6)   Easements;
         (7)   Trash enclosure areas or access to trash bins/trash enclosures;
and
         (8)   Fire lanes.
      i.   Impeding Functions: UCBs cannot impede the functioning of exhaust,
ventilation, or fire extinguishing systems.
      j.   View Obstructions: UCBs cannot interfere with an access drive, off-
street parking lot maneuvering lane, or required off-street parking space to an
extent which would cause safety hazards or unnecessary inconvenience to
vehicular or pedestrian traffic.
      k.   One UCB Per Parcel: No more than one (1) UCB is permitted per parcel
unless documented evidence is submitted to the director that a second UCB is
required due to the volume of items delivered to the site. A UCB must be
operating at a site for at least ninety (90) days to establish that a second
UCB is required. Both UCBs must have the same operator. No fee is required to
apply for this second UCB.
      l.   Visibility: The collection area must be visible from an entrance,
exit, or window of the main building.
      m.   Lighting: The collection area must be no more than ten feet (10')
from a continually operating light source of at least one (1) foot-candle.
   2.   Physical Attributes: UCBs must:
      a.   Be fabricated of durable waterproof and rustproof material;
      b.   Be locked so that the contents cannot be accessed by anyone other
than those responsible for the retrieval of the contents;
      c.   Be equipped with a safety chute to limit the public's access to the
box;
      d.   Be placed on ground that is paved with durable paving;
      e.   Not be more than seven feet (7') high, six feet (6') wide and six
feet (6') deep;
      f.   Not be electrically or hydraulically powered or otherwise
mechanized;
      g.   Not be a fixture of the site or considered an improvement to real
property; and
      h.   Have the following information conspicuously displayed on at least
two-inch (2") type visible from the front on the UCB:
         (1)   The name, address, twenty-four (24)-hour telephone number,
website, and email address of the owner, operator of the UCB, and agent;
         (2)   Address of the site;
         (3)   Instructions on the process to register a complaint regarding
the UCB to the city;
         (4)   The type of material that may be deposited;
         (5)   A notice stating that no material may be left outside the UCB;
         (6)   The pickup schedule for the UCB; and
         (7)   A city-approved identification system that identifies the box as
being properly permitted by the city.
   3.   Maintenance:
      a.   Nuisances: No public nuisance may be within twenty feet (20') of the
UCB including, but not limited to collection overflow, litter, debris, and
dumped material.
      b.   Maintenance Requirements: UCBs must be maintained and in good
working order. Items to be repaired, removed, and/or abated include, but are
not limited to graffiti, removed, or damaged signs and notifications, peeling
paint, rust, and broken collection operating mechanisms.
      c.   Servicing Schedule: UCBs must be serviced not less than weekly
between 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. on weekdays and 10:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on
weekends. This servicing includes the removal of collected material and
abatement of the public nuisance described in this section. The director may
require additional servicing, if evidence is provided that items to be
collected exceed the UCBs capacity or if items to be collected are being left
outside the UCB.
      d.   E-Mail and Telephone Contact: The operator must maintain an active
email address and a twenty-four (24)-hour telephone service with recording
capability for the public to register complaints.
      e.   No Solid or Hazardous Waste: UCBs cannot be used for the collection
of solid waste and/or any hazardous materials.
   4.   Liability: Applicants and/or owner/owner's agent must maintain a
minimum general liability insurance of 1,000,000 dollars for the duration of
the operation of a UCB at each site, to cover any claims or losses due to the
placement, operation, or maintenance of the UCB and naming the City of Temple
City as additional insured.
D.   Revocation of Permit:
   1.   Revocation: The director may revoke a UCB permit under any of the
grounds specified in failure to comply with the provisions of this section, the
provisions of this code, or any other law.
   2.   Notice of Revocation: The director will provide a written notification
to the permittee and property owner stating the specific grounds for a
revocation and a demand for correction and abatement. The notice will allow the
permittee up to fifteen (15) days from mailing of the notice to correct or
abate the violation. Upon failure to make the correction or abatement, the
director will revoke the permit. Afterwards, the permittee will not be eligible
for a permit at any location for one (1) calendar year.
   3.   Removal of Revoked UCB: Upon revocation, or if appealed, after any
appeal as set forth in subsection F, "Appeal to The Planning Commission", of
this section, the collection box will be removed from the real property within
fifteen (15) days by the permittee. If the UCB is not removed within fifteen
(15) days, the city may remove, store or dispose of the UCB at the expense of
the permittee or property owner. The property owner will be responsible for all
costs associated with the removal of the UCB incurred by the city. Costs may be
pursued by the city pursuant to Title 4, Chapter 2, Article C of this Code.
   4.   Violation of Other Laws: A permit for a UCB may be revoked if any
governmental authority or agency determines that the UCB has violated the
California Consumer Protection Act and/or the Charitable Organizations and
Solicitations Act.
E.   Procedure for Removal:
   1.   Content of Removal Sign: Any UCB scheduled to be removed by either
order of the city or the operator must clearly display a notice on the UCB with
at least four-inch (4") type visible from the front on the UCB that states the
following text in capital letters: "THIS BOX WILL BE REMOVED BY" followed by
the date the UCB is scheduled for removal. The operator and property owners are
jointly and severally responsible for the placement of the notice.
   2.   Public Right-Of-Way: Unpermitted UCBs in the public right-of-way may be
removed without prior notice to the owner. The city must notify the owner
within one (1) business day after removing the UCB and must store the item for
fourteen (14) calendar days after notice is given. If no communication is
received by the owner of the UCB within fourteen (14) calendar days of
receiving notice the city may dispose of the UCB. The owner of the UCB must be
given fourteen (14) days to retrieve the UCB.
F.   Appeal to The Planning Commission: Any person aggrieved by the decision
rendered by the Director in granting, denying, or revoking any application for
a permit under this section may appeal the decision to the planning commission
according to the requirements of Article C of this Chapter. (Ord. 17-1026; amd.
Ord. 19-1036)
9-1T-15: REVERSE VENDING MACHINES AND COLLECTION FACILITIES:
A.   Development and Operating Standards: All reverse vending machines and
collection facilities must comply with the following specific standards:
   1.   Reverse Vending Machines: Reverse vending machines located on a
commercial site do not require additional parking spaces for customers, and are
permitted in all commercial and manufacturing districts, subject to zoning
clearance, pursuant to article 9-1C of this, and compliance with the following
standards.
      a.   Accessory Use Only: The reverse vending machines may only be
installed as an accessory use.
      b.   Indoor Locations: If located inside a structure, the reverse vending
machines must be within thirty feet (30') of the entrance and may not obstruct
pedestrian circulation.
      c.   Maximum Size: The reverse vending machines may not occupy more than
fifty (50) square feet, including any protective enclosure, and may not be more
than eight feet (8') in height. A reverse vending machine or collection of
reverse vending machines greater than fifty (50) square feet is considered a
collection facility.
      d.   Signs: The reverse vending machines may only have a maximum sign
area of four (4)-square feet per machine, exclusive of operating instructions.
      e.   Lighting: The reverse vending machines must be illuminated to ensure
comfortable and safe operation for any operating hours between dusk and dawn.
      f.   Materials: If located outside a structure, the reverse vending
machines must be constructed of durable waterproof and rustproof material.
      g.   Hours of Operation: The reverse vending machines may only have
operating hours within the operating hours of the main use.
      h.   Prohibited Locations: Reverse vending machines are prohibited within
any of the following locations:
         (1)   Public right-of-way and within twenty feet (20') of the public
right-of-way;
         (2)   Five feet (5') from any property line; and
         (3)   Landscaping.
   2.   Collection Facilities: Collection facilities are permitted within all
commercial and manufacturing zones, subject to conditional use permit approval
and compliance with the following standards.
      a.   Location Requirements: Collection facilities:
         (1)   Must be set back at least forty-five feet (45') from any public
right-of-way, and not obstruct pedestrian or vehicular circulation and
         (2)   Must permanently locate any containers provided for after-hours
collection of recyclable materials at least thirty feet (30') from any property
zoned or occupied for residential use.
      b.   Maximum Size: Collection facilities may not be larger than five
hundred (500) square feet and may not occupy more than three (3) parking
spaces, except for spaces that will be periodically needed for removal of
materials or exchange of containers.
      c.   Appearance of Facility: Collection facilities, site fencing, and
signs must be of a color and design compatible with the surrounding uses and
neighborhood.
      d.   Landscaping and Screening: The collection facility:
         (1)   May not reduce or eliminate any required landscaping;
         (2)   Must be screened from view from adjacent public rights-of-way
using fences, landscape, or other approved materials; and
         (3)   Must be subject to additional landscaping and screening as
determined through conditional use permit.
      e.   Parking Requirements:
         (1)   No additional parking space is required for customers of a
collection facility located in the established parking lot of the main use.
         (2)   Mobile or portable collection facilities must have an area
clearly marked to prohibit other vehicular parking during hours when the mobile
collection facility is scheduled to be present.
         (3)   Use of parking spaces by the facility and by the employee may
not reduce available parking spaces below the minimum number required for the
main use unless a parking study shows that existing capacity is not fully
utilized during the time the collection facility will be on the site.
      f.   Signs: Signs may be provided as follows:
         (1)   Collection facilities may have identification signs with a
maximum area of fifteen percent (15%) or twelve (12) square feet per side of
the structure whichever is greater. In the case of a wheeled facility, the side
will be measured from the ground to the top of the container;
         (2)   The sign must contain the hours of operation, redemption values,
and the name of the operator or property owner; and
      g.   Operating Standards: Collection facilities:
         (1)   May not accept household hazardous waste, electronic waste, or
other products that may cause a risk to the health and safety of the community;
         (2)   May not use any power-driven processing equipment except for
reverse vending machines;
         (3)   Must use containers that are constructed with durable waterproof
and rustproof material, that are covered when the site is not attended, secured
from unauthorized removal of material, and of a capacity enough to accommodate
materials collected and the collection schedule;
         (4)   Must store all materials in containers or in the mobile unit
vehicle, and may not leave materials outside of containers when attendant is
not present; and
         (5)   Mobile facilities, at which trucks or containers are removed at
the end of each collection day, must be swept at the end of each collection
day.
      h.   Hours of Operation: Attended facilities located within one hundred
feet (100') of a property zoned or occupied by a residential use may only
operate between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.
      i.   Trash Enclosure: The collection facility must either use the trash
dumpster for the primary use or construct an adjacent fully enclosed trash
enclosure, with a six-foot (6') concrete block wall and a metal gate,
surrounded with a minimum of three feet (3') of automatically irrigated
landscaping.
   3.   General Standards: All reverse vending machines and collection
facilities must comply with the following standards:
      a.   Signs: Recycling and collection facilities may be provided
identification and informational signs, as follows, provided that all signs
meet the standards of the applicable zoning district.
         (1)   All collection facilities and reverse vending machines must be
clearly marked to identify the type of material which may be deposited, and
display a notice stating that no material can be left outside the enclosure or
machine; and
         (2)   The recycling and collection facility must be clearly marked to
identify the name and telephone number of the operator and the hours of
operation.
         (3)   Directional signs bearing no advertising message, may be
installed with prior approval of the director if found necessary to facilitate
traffic circulation or if the collection facility is not visible from the
public right-of-way.
      b.   Refuse Disposal: Sites with reverse vending machines and collection
facilities must maintain adequate on-site refuse containers for the disposal of
non-recyclable, non-hazardous waste. Trash cans must be placed adjacent to
facilities and be emptied periodically so as not to create litter in the
adjacent area.
      c.   Maintenance and Cleanliness: The site must be maintained clean,
sanitary, and free of litter, waste materials, and loose debris. Temporarily
stored materials must be moved to an approved processing site as soon as
practical.
      d.   Locations:
         (1)   Dwelling Units: No reverse vending machine or collection
facility may be allowed on a lot with a residential dwelling unit.
         (2)   Vacant Lots: No reverse vending machine or collection facility
may be allowed on a lot without a main building.
         (3)   Occupied Structure: A reverse vending machine or collection
facility is only permitted on a lot that also contains a main building that
contains at least one (1) operating business or other ongoing activity, not
including a commercial parking lot.
         (4)   Required Parking: No reverse vending machine or collection
facility may be in required parking spaces or a driveway.
         (5)   No Blocking: Reverse vending machines and collection facilities,
including patrons of the facilities, cannot block or impede access to: required
parking or driveways; pedestrian routes; emergency vehicle routes; building
entries or exits; required handicapped accessibility routes; easements; trash
enclosure areas or access to trash bins/trash enclosures; and fire lanes.
         (6)   Near Residences: No reverse vending machine or collection
facility may be within fifty feet (50') of a residential structure. (Ord. 19-
1036)
9-1T-16: HOME OCCUPATIONS:
A.   Development and Operating Standards: A home occupation license may be
issued to an occupant of a dwelling unit, located in any R Zone, provided the
home occupation meets the following:
   1.   There is no display or outdoor storage of goods, wares, merchandise, or
stock in trade maintained on the premises; and
   2.   There shall be no items sold on-site, and
B.   There is not more than one (1) person regularly employed in such
occupation; and only a resident of the dwelling unit shall be employed in the
operation of a home occupation use. No volunteers, interns or independent
contractors shall be part of a home occupation permit.
C.   There is no equipment used in conjunction with such occupation, which
emits dust, fumes, noise, odor, etc., which would or could interfere with the
peaceful use and enjoyment of adjacent properties; and
D.   There is not more than two hundred (200) square feet of the floor space of
the dwelling devoted to such use; and
E.   There is no appreciable increase of traffic, pedestrian and vehicular, by
reason of such occupation, calling or profession; and
F.   There is no alteration of the structure or loss of any required parking;
and
G.   There is no use of any sign not otherwise permitted in the zone in which
the occupation is located; no signage whatsoever shall be permitted in
conjunction with the home occupation. Evidence of a violation of this
prohibition against home occupation related signage shall be grounds for
revocation or suspension of all applicable permits.
H.   Violation: Any code violation or any failure to comply with the above
regulations will be grounds for revocation of the home occupation license in
accordance with section
5-1B-16 of this code.
I.   Prohibited Uses: The following uses will be prohibited as home
occupations: firearms and ammunition, massage, automotive repair shops,
automotive body shops, pet grooming shops, kennels, bee keeping, raising
animals for commercial purposes, or other uses deemed to be hazardous or
undesirable by the Community Development Director.
J.   Music Lessons: Music lessons including piano, woodwind, string, and
headphone-based musical instruments are permitted if there is not more than one
unrelated student present at a time, lessons occur after eight o'clock (8:00)
A.M. and before eight o'clock (8:00) P.M., and lessons do not occur on Sundays
or Federal Holidays. Unless headphone-based, saxophone, brass and percussion
instruments are not allowed. (Ord. 19-1036; amd. Ord. 23-1069)
9-1T-17: ANIMAL KEEPING:
A.   Development and Operating Standards. Animals may be kept in any
residential unit provided the keeping of animals complies with the development
and operating standards of this section and Title 3, Chapter 6 of this code.
   1.   Household Pets. The maximum number of household pets over four (4)
months of age shall not exceed the limitations set forth below:
      a.   If there is only one (1) residential dwelling unit on said lot, then
the limitation shall be three (3) such household pets; and
      b.   If there are two (2) residential units on said lot, then the
limitation shall be two (2) household pets per unit; and
      c.   If there are three (3) or more such units on said lot, then the
limitation shall be one (1) household pet per unit.
   2.   Not more than two (2) rabbits or hens or ducks over four (4) months of
age per two thousand (2,000) square feet of lot area; and,
      a.   No turkeys or other livestock or fowl.
      b.   Animals may not be sold commercially.
      c.   No on-site slaughtering of animals.
      d.   Hen enclosures must be:
         (1)   At least five feet (5') from a property line.
         (2)   Any walls or fences within ten feet (10') of a property line
must be solid.
      e.   Aviaries for pigeons, song or decorative birds, provided the
following conditions are met:
         (1)   Not more than twelve (12) adult birds are so maintained; and
         (2)   The purpose of the maintenance of such aviary is primarily for
hobby purposes and not for commercial exploitation; and
         (3)   The structures housing such aviaries shall not be located within
ten feet (10') of any side or rear lot line upon the lot where located, unless
separated from adjoining property by a solid wall or fence at least one inch
(1") thick; nor shall the same be located in front of any residential
structure; nor within thirty five feet (35') of any main building; nor shall
the same be higher than any yard wall located within ten feet (10') thereof;
and
         (4)   Any person may apply to the city council for a special permit
for aviaries containing more than twelve (12) birds, provided that such
applicant pays a fee for inspections in the amount set by the city council by
separate motion, and provided further that the applicant may show to the
satisfaction of the city council that such aviary will be maintained without
damage or nuisance to neighboring properties; and
         (5)   All existing nonconforming structures erected for the housing of
birds shall comply with new regulations and standards on or before January 1,
1971.
   3.   Nothing contained in this section shall prevent the keeping of animals
or fowl by a tax supported eleemosynary or public educational institution,
which are utilized as a part of such institution's curriculum; and
   4.   No person shall allow or permit animals to run at large upon any public
street or place, or to trespass upon the property of another.
   5.   No person shall keep upon any premises, any animals, poultry or
household pets in a foul, offensive, obnoxious, filthy or unsanitary condition.
   6.   No person, firm or corporation shall keep bees within the corporate
limits.
   7.   No person may keep more than one (1) pygmy pig or hog, commonly
referred to as a Vietnamese pot-bellied pig, pygmy pig, or mini-pig, that
stands no higher than twenty inches (20") at the shoulder and is no longer than
forty inches (40") from the tip of the head to the end of the buttocks, and
weighs no more than one hundred twenty (120) pounds.
      a.   The owner or custodian of a pygmy pig must provide written
confirmation to the city from a licensed veterinarian that the pig has been
neutered or spayed; and
      b.   The breeding of pygmy pigs is prohibited.
   8.   Violation: Violation of this section is a public nuisance and subject
to enforcement in accordance with applicable law. (Ord. 19-1036)
9-1T-18: SIDEWALK DINING:
A.   Definition:
 
               Any group of tables and chairs, and its authorized decorative an
               accessory devices, situated and maintained upon the public
SIDEWALK CAFÉ:sidewalk o along the existing "malls" at the rear of the
               building for us in connection with consumption of food and
               beverage sold to the public from or in an adjoining indoor
               restaurant.
 
B.   Sidewalk Café Permitted: A sidewalk café is a permitted accessory use and
will be administratively reviewed in accordance with the criteria set forth
herein. The director may impose any other additional conditions as deemed
necessary and appropriate; any action of the direction is subject to appeal to
the planning commission.
C.   Limitation and Requirements: A sidewalk café may be permitted only in
zoning districts which allow indoor restaurants and then only if the sidewalk
café is situated adjacent, as specified below, to an indoor restaurant and the
sidewalk café's operation is incidental to and a part of the operation of the
adjacent indoor restaurant.
   1.    Existing indoor restaurants must conform to all section of the Code to
be eligible for approval of sidewalk services.
   2.   A sidewalk café may be located on the public sidewalk immediately
adjacent to and abutting the indoor restaurant which operate the café, provided
the area in which the sidewalk café is located extend no further along the
sidewalk's length than the actual sidewalk frontage of the operating indoor
restaurant and all other applicable provisions of the this section are
fulfilled.
   3.   A sidewalk café may be located on an area of the public sidewalk which
is not immediately adjacent to and abutting the indoor restaurant which
operates the café, provided all applicable provisions of this section are
fulfilled and provided that the majority of the area in which the sidewalk café
will be located is situated on the public sidewalk directly in front of the
indoor restaurant which operates the café. That area of the public sidewalk
which would be enclosed by a perpendicular projection of the indoor
restaurant's sidewalk frontage over the sidewalk, will be considered as being
"directly in front of the indoor restaurant" for the purpose of this
subsection.
   4.   An indoor restaurant may be permitted to operate only one (1) sidewalk
café and each sidewalk café must be confined to a single location on the
sidewalk.
   5.   A sidewalk café may be permitted only where the sidewalk is wide enough
to adequately accommodate both the usual pedestrian traffic in the area and the
operation of the proposed café. There must be a minimum forty-eight inch (48")
clear distance free of all obstructions, in order to allow adequate pedestrian
movement. Any sidewalk café must be established and operated to be consistent
with ADA standards and criteria.
   6.   All outdoor dining furniture, including tables, chairs, umbrellas, and
planters, must be movable. Umbrellas must be secured with a minimum base of not
less than sixty (60) pounds. Outdoor heaters, amplified music, or speakers must
be reviewed at the time of application.
   7.   No signs are be allowed at any outdoor café.
   8.   A sidewalk café may serve only food and beverages prepared or stocked
for sale at the adjoining indoor restaurant; provided that the service of beer
or wine, or both, solely for on-premises consumption by customers within the
area of the sidewalk café has been authorized as part of the application
review. Each of the following requirements must also be met:
      a.   The area in which the sidewalk café is authorized is identified in a
manner which will clearly separate and delineate it from the areas of the
sidewalk, which will remain open to pedestrian traffic.
   9.   The sidewalk café operation is duly licensed, or prior to the service
of any beer or wine at the café, will be duly licensed, by state authorities to
sell beer or wine, or both, for consumption within the area of the sidewalk
café.
   10.   The outdoor preparation of food and busing facilities are prohibited
at sidewalk cafes.
   11.   All exterior surfaces within the café must be easily cleanable and
must always be kept clean by the permittee.
   12.   Restrooms for the café must be provided in the adjoining indoor
restaurant and the café seating must be counted in determining the restroom
requirements of the indoor restaurant.
   13.   Trash and refuse storage for the sidewalk café must not be permitted
within the outdoor dining area or on adjacent sidewalk areas and the permittee
must remove all trash and litter as it accumulates. The permittee is be
responsible for maintaining the outdoor dining area, including the sidewalk
surface and furniture and adjacent areas in a clean and safe condition.
   14.   Hours of operation must be identical to those of the indoor
restaurant. All furniture used in the operation of an outdoor café must be
removed from the sidewalk and stored indoors whenever the indoor restaurant is
closed.
   15.   The city has the right to prohibit the operation of a sidewalk café at
any time because of anticipated or actual problems or conflicts in the use of
the sidewalk area. Such problems and conflicts may arise from, but are not
limited to, scheduled festivals and similar events, parades, repairs to the
street or sidewalk, or emergencies occurring in the area. To the extent
possible, the permittee will be given prior written notice of any time period
during which the operation of the sidewalk café will be prohibited by the city.
   16.   The sidewalk café will not require the provision of additional off-
street parking.
D.   Findings and Conditions: In connection with approval, the community
development director may impose such conditions as deemed necessary to assure
the appropriate operation of the business and assure that the public safety and
welfare are protected.
E.   Terms and Renewal: Any approved sidewalk café may be subject to review
based upon neighborhood complaints, unlawful assembly, excessive noise, or
other similar public nuisances. The director may impose additional conditions
as deemed necessary to address identified problems associated with the use. Any
action taken by the director may be appealed to the planning commission. The
planning commission has the authority to revoke authorization for any sidewalk
café. Any action of the planning commission may be appealed to the city
council.
F.   Revocation: Approval for the sidewalk café and/or the business license for
the restaurant use may be revoked following notice to the permittee and a
public hearing, upon a finding that one or more conditions of the permit or of
this section have been violated or that the sidewalk café is being operated in
a manner which constitutes a nuisance, or that the operation of the sidewalk
café unduly impedes or restricts the movement of pedestrians past the sidewalk
café. (Ord. 19-1036)
9-1T-19: GROCERY STORE:
All grocery stores established after the effective date of this section must
abide by the following standards to be classified as “Retail sales, under
10,000 square feet.”
A.   Existing loading docks must comply with the requirements of Section
9-1E-6 to the extent physically feasible.
B.   Alcohol sales areas must be no more than 15 percent of the interior square
footage of the market.
C.   Fresh food (not canned, dried, or frozen) must be at least 20 percent of
the interior square footage of the market.
D.   Accessory uses including fast casual or fast food, banks, pharmacies, and
other similar uses (excluding public food markets) determined by the Community
Development Director are permitted. The total floor area of accessory uses must
not exceed 10 percent of the interior building area.
E.   A security plan must be reviewed and approved by the Community Development
Director and continually instituted if calls for service to the Los Angeles
County Sheriff’s Department exceeds the City average for a grocery store.
F.   Exterior windows without tinting must be provided on at least 25 percent
of the front elevation of building’s main entrance facade.
G.   All electronic kiosks, unattended collection boxes, vending machines,
online retailer lockers, and such must be located indoors.
H.   Items displayed outdoors must be displayed using high quality materials
such as finished wood, and not pallets, cardboard, or plastic crates and boxes.
I.   Items for sale indoors must not be stored or displayed in or on cardboard
boxes, plastic crates and boxes, metal crates, pallets, wire shelves, or bakery
shelves.
J.   The Community Development Director may restrict loading dock utilization
if complaints to code enforcement or the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s
Department exceed the City average for a grocery store.
K.   Fluorescent or LED light tubes shall be shielded from view.
L.   Aquariums and the like must be maintained in good condition. This includes
free of algae and debris. Glass must be kept clean.
M.   The grocery store must provide high quality video cameras inside and
outside of each entrance and make such videos available to the Los Angeles
County Sheriff’s Department when requested. Videos must be kept for 15 days.
(Ord. 1055, 6-1-2021)
9-1T-20: PUBLIC FOOD MARKET:
All public food markets must abide by the following.
A.   Findings for Approval: The Planning Commission may not approve a
conditional use permit unless the Planning Commission finds:
   1.   The proposed public food market will include high-quality improvements
and materials.
   2.   The proposed public food market will be managed by an entity or person
with experience overseeing a successful public food market or similar use.
B.   The applicant must submit for the Planning Commission’s review and
approval a plan for the mix of tenants and operation. The plan must focus the
public food market’s vendors on food and food related products (cookbooks,
cooking materials, and ingredients) or homemade products and crafts. The
following guidelines should be used as guidelines for such a plan.
   1.   No more than 33 percent of the floor area of the market can be leased
to vendors selling food intended to be consumed onsite.
   2.   No more than 10 percent of the floor area of the market can be leased
to vendors selling general merchandise.
C.   An applicant for a public food market must submit and implement an
interior design program written by a licensed architect which requires quality
materials, regulates how to display products, and sets requirements for keeping
spaces clean and well maintained. The program must include requirements related
to counter height, demising partitions, merchandising, display, lighting,
material, storage, and signs.
D.   Stalls must be designed with a rear entrance to provide access and
storage.
E.   Stalls selling prepared foods for onsite consumption may provide seating
at a bar.
F.   A communal seating area for patrons to eat foods cooked onsite may be
included. If so, one larger seating area must be provided; smaller seating
areas spread throughout the market may be provided in addition to the larger
seating area.
G.   Alcohol sales must be limited to one tenant per 30,000 square feet and
limited to rare, high quality, small-batch, or “craft” brews. Single-serve
alcohol must not be sold for offsite consumption. Containers of alcohol less
than 8 ounces must not be sold for offsite consumption.
H.   Cigarettes, other tobacco products, other tobacco related products, vaping
products and products containing psycho-tropic cannabis related products must
not be sold. Tenants selling non-psycho-tropic CBD products are limited to one
per 30,000 square feet.
I.   Non-food vendors must be in non-prominent areas such as along rear walls
or in spaces furthest from the entrance.
J.   The market must have its own entrance from the building’s main façade.
K.   Flower or seasonal sales stalls must be provided on at least one side of
the building’s main entrance unless the market is along a city-owned sidewalk
where outdoor sales is prohibited. In such cases, setting the building back to
provide seasonal outdoor sales is encouraged.
L.   In cases where the required parking is not city-owned, the required
parking for the market may be used as an exterior “Market Square” once a week
if permitted by or subject to conditions of the business’s conditional use
permit or a separate temporary use permit.
M.   Indoor and outdoor displays must be attractive and orderly. Cardboard
boxes, plastic crates, wire shelves, wood pallets and other low-quality storage
is not allowed.
N.   Besides cooked or prepared foods, the vendors must not sell food or
products that release obnoxious odors. Areas for fish vendors and greengrocers
must be maintained to eliminate odor.
O.   The business will be inspected quarterly and pay the Community
Preservation inspection fee as defined in the City’s Fee and Fine Schedule.
(Ord. 21-1056, 5-4-2021)
9-1T-21: URBAN DWELLINGS AND URBAN LOT SPLITS:
A.   Urban Dwellings: The following requirements apply to urban dwellings in
accordance with Section 65852.21 of the Government Code:
   1.   Applicability:
      a.   R-1 Zoning: Any proposed urban dwelling must be located within the
R-1, single-family zone.
      b.   Historic Designation: Any proposed urban dwelling must not be
located within a historic district or property included on the State Historic
Resources Inventory (see Section 5020.1 of the Public Resources Code), or
within a site that is designated or listed as a city or county landmark or
historic property or district pursuant to a city or county ordinance.
      c.   Demolition and Alteration: A proposed urban dwelling must not
require demolition or alteration of any of the following types of housing:
         (1)   Housing that is subject to a recorded covenant, ordinance, or
law that restricts rents to levels affordable to persons and families of
moderate, low, or very low income.
         (2)   Housing that is subject to any form of rent or price control
through a public entity’s valid exercise of its police power.
         (3)   Housing that has been occupied by a tenant in the last three
years.
      d.   Limit on Demolition: A proposed urban dwelling must not demolish
more than 25 percent of the existing exterior structural walls. This does not
apply if the housing development has not been occupied by a tenant in the last
three years.
      e.   Other Instances:
         (1)   A proposed urban dwelling must not be on a parcel located in the
areas specified in subparagraphs (B) to (K), inclusive, of paragraph (6) of
subdivision (a) of Section 65913.4.
         (2)   A proposed urban dwelling must not be on a parcel on which an
owner of residential real property has exercised the owner’s rights under
Chapter 12.75 (commencing with Section 7060) of Division 7 of Title 1 to
withdraw accommodations from rent or lease within 15 years before the date that
the development proponent applies.
   2.   Ministerial Review: Proposals for urban dwellings will be reviewed
ministerially, without discretionary review or a hearing, through the zoning
clearance process.
   3.   Short Term Rentals Prohibited: The rental of any urban dwelling must be
for a term longer than 30 days.
   4.   Objective Zoning Standards:
      a.   R-1 Standards: The standards within Section
9-1G-12 (R-1 Zone District Residential Development Standards) apply to
proposals for urban dwellings. In the case of conflict between this Section and
any other section of Chapter 9-1 (Zoning Code), the provisions of 9-1T-21 will
apply.
      b.   Number of Units: The parcel for the proposed urban dwelling must
contain no more than two units. Existing and proposed ADUs and JADUs will be
counted toward the maximum number of units. An urban dwelling development
contains two residential units if the development proposes no more than two new
units or if it proposes to add one new unit to one existing unit. On a site
where no lot split is proposed, the maximum number of units must not exceed two
(2) urban dwellings and two (2) ADUs or two (2) urban dwellings and two (2)
Junior ADUs.
      d.   Minimum Size: The minimum size of an urban dwelling is 500 square
feet.
      e.   Setbacks:
         (1)   Existing Structures: No setback is required for an existing,
permitted structure or a structure constructed in the same location and to the
same dimensions as an existing, permitted structure.
         (2)   New Structures and Additions: The minimum setback from the side
and rear property line is four feet.
      f.   Height:
         (1)   New Structures: An urban dwelling must not be more than one-
story. The maximum height must not exceed 18 feet. The distance from the
ceiling to the finished floor must not exceed eight feet. Vaulted ceilings are
not permitted.
         (2)   Additions: An urban dwelling can be added to a site with an
existing two-story structure. In such instances the entirety of the addition
must meet the requirement of subsection “1" above.
         (3)   Conversions: In cases where an urban dwelling is being added by
subdividing an existing structure, the height requirements of subsection “1”
above do not apply.
         (4)   Exceptions: Projects that are exempt from the one-story height
limit due to the 800-square foot exemption must not exceed 25 feet in height
with a maximum top plate height of 18 feet. If a third floor is necessary to
meet the 800-square foot requirement the third floor must be completely
subterranean; the ceiling must be below the natural grade.
      g.   Floor Area Ratio: The floor area ratio incentive bonuses found in
9-1G-15 do not apply to urban dwellings.
      h.   Second Floor Stepbacks: Projects that are exempt from the one-story
height limit due to the 800-square foot exemption, must stepback the second and
third floor four feet from the ground floor. This rule applies to only to the
side yard, rear yard, and street side yard elevations.
      i.   Building Separation: The units or structures within an urban
dwelling may be attached or detached. Detached structures must meet building
code safety standards and are sufficient to allow separate conveyance.
      j.   Driveways and Parking: A proposed urban dwelling must not provide
any onsite parking (including garages, carports, and parking on driveways). Any
hardscape more than 8 feet in width and 18 feet in depth is not permitted on a
site with an urban dwelling. Prior to issuance of a building permit the
applicant must obtain an encroachment permit to remove an existing driveway.
Prior to finalizing of building permits and granting of a certificate of
occupancy the driveway apron in the public right of way must be removed and
repaired.
      k.   Building Official Review: The City will deny a proposed urban
dwelling if the building official makes a written finding, based upon a
preponderance of the evidence, that the proposed housing development project
would have a specific, adverse impact, as defined and determined in paragraph
(2) of subdivision (d) of Section 65589.5, upon public health and safety or the
physical environment and for which there is no feasible method to
satisfactorily mitigate or avoid the specific, adverse impact. The decision of
the building official may be appealed to the Planning Commission in compliance
with section
9-1C-5-G.
      l.   Affordability: Urban dwellings must be continuously maintained as
“affordable” housing for a period of not less than 30 years from the date of
first occupancy. Urban dwellings must be occupied by low or very low- income
households. (Low income is defined as 50 percent of the average median income
for the Los Angeles/Long Beach Metropolitan Area). The maximum amount of rent,
which may be charged, is 30 percent of the total household income or 30 percent
of the income limit for low-income households, whichever is less. Every
occupant of an urban dwelling must be qualified for eligibility based upon
annual tax returns. Said restriction must be set forth in a recorded covenant
or deed restriction. The property owner must provide documentation to the City
on an annual basis relative to eligibility. The owner must agree to evict any
tenant who does not meet the eligibility requirement. When the applicant lives
onsite, they will be exempt from this requirement. The community development
director is authorized to establish forms, policies, and procedures, to
implement this affordability requirement.
      m.   Sub-Leasing: In accordance with
Table 9-1G-2, only one bedroom within an urban dwelling can be rented.
      n.   Tree Preservation: In cases where an addition or new construction is
being proposed to provide for urban dwelling, the property owner must not
remove any mature trees onsite. A mature tree is defined as trees with a
diameter-at-breast-height (DBH) of 19 inches or greater. A removal includes
moving a tree or removing more than one-third of a tree’s vegetation. In
addition to preservation of the tree, the owner must record a covenant showing
the location of the mature tree, stating that all reasonable precautions have
been made to preserve the tree, requiring all trimming of the tree to be
overseen by a licensed arborist, prohibiting the tree from being topped, and
that the City must approve of any removal of the tree. If removal of a tree is
required to provide a minimum 800 square foot unit, the owner must meet the
requirements of Section
9-1N-8 (Tree Replacement Requirements).
      o.   LEED Platinum Certification: Prior to the city releasing a
certificate of occupancy, the property owner must demonstrate that the property
has achieved LEED Platinum certification. This requirement does not apply to
conversions of and additions to existing buildings.
      p.   Disclosures: At the time of sale, a site with an urban dwelling must
disclose to the seller:
         (1)   The site is not eligible for overnight parking permits;
         (2)   The site must not be used for short term rentals;
         (3)   The property owner must provide all necessary information to the
City, required in the annual housing element report; and
         (4)   The site must be used for affordable housing per the recorded
covenant.
   5.   Objective Design Standards for Additions: Additions or new structures
added to sites where an existing structure will be retained must match the
architectural style of the main dwelling including but not limited to the roof
pitch, window size, proportion of window units to wall size, direction of
window opening, muntin pattern, exterior building materials, lighting fixtures,
and paint colors.
   6.   Objective Design Standards for New Construction: The following
standards apply to all new construction, not additions:
      a.   Front Façade Articulation: Front elevations must include at least
two of the following: porch, canopy, bay window, awning, chimney, or courtyard.
The porch or courtyard must be at least five feet deep.
      b.   Entrances: The front entrance to all units must be either recessed
or protrude a minimum of five feet from the front wall. The front recessed
entry or porch area must be covered.
      c.   Side and Rear Articulation: No wall along a side-, rear-, or street
side-yard may extend more than 24 feet without architectural articulation or an
offset of at least 2 feet for not less than 8 feet. The eave of the roof must
be articulated as well at the same proportion as the wall below. See the
images, below. The first image does not meet this requirement, while the second
image, does.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4085.png]
 
      d.    Quantity of Exterior Materials: All structures must have at least
two exterior building wall materials including. The following exterior
materials area allowed: stucco, wood, rock/stone, hand-painted tile, brick, or
clinker brick. Window and door trim does not count as a second material.
      e.   Use of stone: Manufactured stone must not be used in place of real
stone.
      f.   Use of brick: Brick veneer must be at least 1.75 inches in depth;
half the depth of a standard brick.
      g.   Quality Materials: Materials made from foam covered by stucco are
not allowed.
      h.   Exterior Materials: When used on the same elevation, wood and stucco
must be placed above rock or brick.
      i.   Two Colors: Buildings must include at least two colors; one for the
main wall color and another for architectural trim pieces.
      j.   Building Colors: Projects with detached structures must provide
different color palettes for each structure.
      k.   Exterior Stairwells: Exterior stairs leading from the ground floor
to a second or third story are prohibited.
      l.   Open Space: Urban dwellings must have minimum of 500 square feet of
open space with a dimension of at least 10 feet. The open space must be
directly accessible to the urban dwelling it serves. The front yard could not
be counted as open space.
      m.   Courtyards: Urban dwellings that are new construction, and not an
addition, must include a main open space courtyard that meets the requirements
of subsections
9-1G-22H and
9-1G-22I.
      n.   Architectural Styles: Urban dwellings must either be Spanish
Colonial Revival or Craftsman in style.
      o.   Spanish Colonial Revival Design Elements: Urban dwellings designed
in a Spanish Colonial Revival style must meet the following requirements:
         (1)     Spanish Colonial Revival Massing: The massing for a Spanish
Colonial Revival house must be “L” shaped in nature with a gable or hip
parallel to the street.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4083.png]
 
         (2)    Spanish Colonial Revival Window and Door Composition: Windows
and doors must be placed asymmetrically. The buildings must reflect the
following approved proportions.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4081.png]
 
         (3)   Spanish Colonial Revival Eave Detail: Second floor eaves must be
at least 10 inches in depth. Any shallower eaves must be constructed of the
building wall material or molded plaster. Eaves must meet the design
requirements depicted below.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4079.png]
 
         (4)   Spanish Colonial Revival Porches: Porches must be designed as
patios or loggias. The minimum depth must be 8 feet. The patio or loggia must
be defined either plaster arches with plaster columns, of plaster arches with
cast stone columns. Porch floors must be paved with stained concrete, terra
cotta tile, or brick. Columns, posts, and arches must use the standard
drawings, below.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4077.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4075.png]
 
         (5)     Spanish Colonial Revival Balconies: If balconies are included,
they must project out from the structure. Balconies made of metal must be no
more than two feet deep. Balconies deeper than two feet must be made of wood.
Wood balconies must use the design below.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4073.png]
 
         (6)    Spanish Colonial Revival Windows: Windows must have a vertical
or horizontal pane configuration. Windows surrounded by stucco must be recessed
to create the illusion of thicker walls. Below is the required window recessing
detail.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4071.png]
 
         (7)    Spanish Colonial Revival Doors: Doors must be made of stained
or painted wood. Doors must be either a plank/board design or a panel door,
recessed. Doors must be of one of the styles below.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4069.png]
 
         (8)   Spanish Colonial Revival Trim: When windows are recessed less
than four inches a trim is required. Trim must be above and below the window.
         (9)   Spanish Colonial Revival Shutters: Shutters must be used on
windows that are taller than they are wide, except for fixed picture windows.
Shutters must be of one of the two designs. For windows more than two feet
wide, two shutters must be provided. Each shutter must be half the width of the
window. For windows more than two feet wide, or less, shutters are not
required.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4067.png]
 
      p.    Craftsman Design Elements: Urban dwellings designed in a Craftsman
style must meet the following requirements:
         (1)    Craftsman Massing: The massing for a Craftsman house must be
“L” shaped in nature with a front facing gable roof containing any second story
(if applicable). An in-line gabled porch or wing must be added to the front leg
of the L to create an asymmetrical form. The roof pitch must be at or between
4:12 and 6:12.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4065.png]
 
         (2)    Craftsman Window and Door Composition: The buildings must
reflect the following approved proportions. The placement of windows and doors
must be asymmetrical. When more than one window is placed in an unarticulated
section of an elevation, the windows must occur in pairs, or as sidelights to
an oversized ground floor window. Entrance doors must have a width greater than
36 inches. This can be accomplished by adding side lites. Double doors are not
permitted.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4063.png]
 
         (3)   Craftsman Materials: Wood or fiber cement board must be used.
Additional accent materials are limited to river rock, brick, clinker brick, or
a combination of these (clinker brick). The shingle or board exposure must
range between three and six inches. When corner boards are used, they must have
an exposure of four to six inches.
         (4)    Craftsman Eave Detail: Eaves must range in depth from 18 to 32
inches. Eaves must meet the design requirements depicted below.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4061.png]
 
         (5)    Craftsman Porches: The minimum depth of the porch on the front
unit must be 8 feet. Eaves on the porch must be at least 1.5 to 2 feet in
depth. Porches roofs must be one of the following - gable, hipped, or shed.
Porch roofs must have a pitch between 3:12 to 4:12. Columns, posts, and arches
must use the standard drawings, below.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4059.png]
 
         (6)   Craftsman Balconies: Balconies are not permitted.
         (7)   Craftsman Windows: Windows must not be taller than they are
wide, unless the window is a picture window set between to smaller, vertical,
casement or hung windows. Horizontal windows are allowed in bathrooms. All
windows, except the aforementioned horizontal windows, must be casement or hung
windows. All windows must have muntins unless the window has a dimension less
than 2 feet. Window muntin pattern must be 2 over 1, 3 over 1, or 4 over 1. All
windows must be recessed. Below is the required window recessing detail.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4057.png]
 
         (8)    Craftsman Doors: Doors must be made of stained or painted wood.
Doors must be either a plank/board design or a panel door, recessed. Doors must
have a glazed, top portion. Doors must be of one of the styles below.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4055.png]
 
         (9)   Bungalow Trim: All windows must have a trim around the top,
bottom, and sides. All trim must match that shown in “Craftsman Windows”,
above.
         (10)    Bungalow Shutters: When shutters are used, they must be half
the width of the window.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/40012c701ffcbfb88e5711bc24614c6ed3825f72/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4087.png]
 
   7.   Exceptions to Objective Standards: Any objective zoning standards,
objective subdivision standards, and objective design standards that would have
the effect of physically precluding the construction of up to two units or that
would physically preclude either of the two units from being at least 800
square feet in floor area must be set aside. Objective zoning standards will be
set aside in the following order until the site can contain two, 800 square
foot units.
      a.   Lot coverage
      b.   Floor area ratio
      c.   Tree Preservation
      d.   Open space
      e.   Courtyard
      f.   Second floor step backs
      g.   Front of the lot floor area ratio
      h.   Articulation
      i.   Maximum number of stories. If waiving of all the above requirements
do not provide for an 800 square foot unit, the building may exceed the maximum
number of stories. After exceeding the maximum number of stories, the applicant
must then replace the above objective standards in the opposite order until the
unit size is reduced to 800 square feet.
B.   Urban Lot Splits: The following requirements apply to urban lot splits in
accordance with Government Code Section 66411.7:
   1.   Applicability:
      a.   R-1 Zoning: Any proposed urban lot split must be located within the
R-1, single-family zone.
      b.   Historic Designation: Any proposed urban lot split must not be
located within a historic district or property included on the State Historic
Resources Inventory, see Section 5020.1 of the Public Resources Code, or within
a site that is designated or listed as a city or county landmark or historic
property or district pursuant to a city or county ordinance.
      c.   Demolition and Alteration: A proposed urban lot split must not
require demolition or alteration of any of the following types of housing:
         (1)   Housing that is subject to a recorded covenant, ordinance, or
law that restricts rents to levels affordable to persons and families of
moderate, low, or very low income.
         (2)   Housing that is subject to any form of rent or price control
through a public entity’s valid exercise of its police power.
         (3)   Housing that has been occupied by a tenant in the last three
years.
      d.   Development of Adjacent Sites: Neither the owner of the parcel being
subdivided nor any person acting in concert with the owner has previously
subdivided an adjacent parcel using an urban lot split as provided for in this
section.
      e.   Other Instances:
         (1)   A proposed urban lot split must not be on a parcel that
satisfies the requirements specified in subparagraphs (B) to (K), inclusive, of
paragraph (6) of subdivision (a) of Section 65913.4.
         (2)   A proposed urban lot split must not be on a parcel on which an
owner of residential real property has exercised the owner’s rights under
Chapter 12.75 (commencing with Section 7060) of Division 7 of Title 1 to
withdraw accommodations from rent or lease within 15 years before the date that
the development proponent applies.
   2.   Ministerial Review: Proposals for urban lot splits will be reviewed
ministerially, without discretionary review or a hearing per Section 66411.7 of
the Government Code.
   3.   Comply with Subdivision Map Act: Urban lot splits must conform to all
applicable objective requirements of the Subdivision Map Act (Division 2
(commencing with Section 66410)), except as expressly provided in this section.
   4.   Dedication and Off-Site Improvements: A dedication of rights-of-way or
the construction of offsite improvements for the parcels being created cannot
be required as a condition of issuing a parcel map.
   5.   Fire Department & Utility Easements: An easement must be provided over
the front parcel to the rear parcel for access to the public right of way,
providing public services and facilities, maintenance of utilities, and (if
required) fire department access.
   6.   Owner Occupied: The applicant for an urban lot split must sign an
affidavit stating that the applicant will occupy one of the housing units as
their principal residence for a minimum of three years from the date of the
approval of the urban lot split.
   7.   Short Term Rentals Prohibited: The rental of any unit created by an
urban lot split must be for a term longer than 30 days.
   8.   Residential Uses, Only: All uses allowed on a site subdivided as an
urban lot split must be limited to residential uses. This does not apply to an
applicant that is a “community land trust,” as defined in clause (ii) of
subparagraph (C) of paragraph (11) of subdivision (a) of Section 402.1 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code or is a “qualified nonprofit corporation” as
described in Section 214.15 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.
   9.   Non-Conforming Zoning Conditions: Nonconforming zoning conditions are
not required to be made conforming before approving an application.
   10.   Bi-Annual Inspection: The property owner must provide for an
inspection every six months for the first three years to ensure the property
owner is living onsite. The property owner must pay the special inspection fee
as set forth in the City’s fee and fine resolution.
   11.   Objective Development Standards: The following objective development
standards apply to urban lot splits:
      a.   Size and Number: The parcel map subdividing an existing parcel must
create no more than two new parcels of approximately equal lot area provided
that one parcel shall not be smaller than 40 percent of the lot area of the
original parcel proposed for subdivision. The subdivision must not be done in a
manner that leaves one lot with more than two units including existing and
proposed main dwellings, ADUs, and JADUs.
      b.   Minimum Size: Both newly created parcels created by an urban lot
split must be no smaller than 1,200 square feet.
      c.   Setbacks:
         (1)   Existing Structures: No setback is required for an existing,
permitted structure or a structure constructed in the same location and to the
same dimensions as an existing, permitted structure.
         (2)   New Structures and Additions: The minimum setback from the side
and rear property line is four feet.
      d.   Building Separation: The units or structures involved in an urban
lot split may be attached or detached provided that the structures meet
building code safety standards and are sufficient to allow separate conveyance.
      e.   Building Official Review: The City will deny a proposed urban lot
split if the building official makes a written finding, based upon a
preponderance of the evidence, that the proposed housing development project
would have a specific, adverse impact, as defined and determined in paragraph
(2) of subdivision (d) of Section 65589.5, upon public health and safety or the
physical environment and for which there is no feasible method to
satisfactorily mitigate or avoid the specific, adverse impact.
      f.   Driveways and Parking: A proposed urban lot split must not provide
any onsite parking (including garages, carports, and parking on driveways). Any
hardscape more than 8 feet in width and 18 feet in depth is not permitted on a
site with an urban lot split. Prior to issuance of a building permit the
applicant must obtain an encroachment permit to remove an existing driveway.
Prior to finalizing of building permits and granting of a certificate of
occupancy the driveway apron in the public right of way must be removed and
repaired.
      g.   Conjunction with Urban Dwellings: Only structures that meet the
requirements of urban dwellings are allowed on urban lot splits.
      h.   Disclosures:
         (1)   At the time of sale, a site with an urban dwelling must disclose
to the seller:
            (A)   The site is not eligible for overnight parking permits;
            (B)   The site must not be used for short term rentals;
            (C)   The property owner must provide for an inspection every six
months for the first three years to ensure the property owner is living onsite.
The property owner must pay the special inspection fee in the City’s fee and
fine resolution;
            (D)   The property owner must provide all necessary information to
the City, required in the annual housing element report;
            (E)   The site must be used for affordable housing per the recorded
covenant; and
            (F)   The site cannot be the subject of future urban lot splits.
(Ord. 21-1059; amd. Ord. 23-1071)
9-1T-22: NON-STOREFRONT DELIVERY-ONLY, MEDICAL, CANNABIS RETAIL BUSINESS:
   A.   Definitions: The following definitions apply unless the context in
which they are used clearly requires otherwise:
      1.   APPLICANT: A person or entity that submits an application for a non-
storefront, delivery-only medical cannabis retail regulatory permit under this
article.
      2.   CANNABIS ACCESSORIES. Has the same meaning as Health and Safety Code
Section 11018.2.
      3.   DAY CARE CENTER: Has the same meaning as in Section 26001 of the
Business and Professions Code.
      4.   NON-STOREFRONT, DELIVERY-ONLY MEDICAL CANNABIS RETAIL. A commercial
operation that is closed to the public but delivers medical cannabis and/or
medical cannabis products as part of retail sale transactions to customers at
fixed locations in accordance with state law. Non-storefront, delivery-only
medical cannabis retailers must be authorized to engage in the retail sale by
delivery of medicinal cannabis to medicinal cannabis patients pursuant to State
License: Type M-Type 9, Non-Storefront Retailer.
   B.   Conditional Use Permit Required: A non-storefront delivery-only,
medical, cannabis retail use is permitted only in the Industrial Zone and
requires a conditional use permit (see
Table 9-1J-2 Land Uses and Permit Requirements for Industrial Zone District).
   C.   Location Standards:
      1.   A non-storefront delivery-only, medical, cannabis retail use must
not be located:
         a.   On a property that has a property line along Lower Azusa Road or
Temple City Boulevard;
         b.   Within 500 feet of any property zoned R-1, in Temple City;
         c.   Within 500 feet of all assembly and religious assembly use within
the city limits;
         d.   Within 500 feet of all public and private schools, childcare
facilities, and daycare facilities within the city limits;
         e.   Within 500 feet of all public parks and all public facilities
(such as city hall, library, sheriff's station, police department, Sheriff
Station, fire department, etc.);
         f.   Within 500 feet of another similarly classified business; and
         g.   Within or share tenant space with another business.
      2.   The distance specified will be measured by the horizontal distance
measured in a straight line from the property line of where the proposed
business is to be located to the closest property line of the lot on which the
use is located without regard to intervening structures.
   D.   Accessory Use: A non-storefront delivery-only, medical, cannabis retail
use is not allowed as an incidental, ancillary, or accessory use to another
use.
   E.   Safety and Security Plan: The applicant for a non-storefront delivery-
only, medical, cannabis retail use must submit a Safety and Security Plan that
is reviewed and approved by the City Manager, or his or her designee. The Plan
must include all of the following:
      1.   State License: The state license or the status of the state license
application.
      2.   Odor Mitigation Plan: The Plan must be certified by a professional
engineer or industrial hygienist that includes the following:
         a.   Operational processes and maintenance plan, including activities
to ensure the odor mitigation system remains adequate and functional;
         b.   Odor mitigation training and operational procedure for all
employees; and
         c.   Engineering controls, which may include carbon filtration or
other methods of air cleaning, and evidence that such controls are sufficient
to effective mitigation odors from all sources. All odor mitigation systems and
plans submitted must be consistent with accepted and best available industry-
specific technologies designed to effectively mitigate cannabis odors.
      3.   Coverage of Video Surveillance: The establishment of a 24-hour video
surveillance recording system, to monitor the entire interior (except
bathrooms), main entrance, and exterior areas, including parking areas to
discourage loitering, crime and illegal activities. The areas to be covered by
the security cameras include but are not limited to the storage areas, the
dispensing areas, delivery areas, all doors and windows and any other areas as
determined by the City Manager or the City Manager's designee. The cameras must
be in use 24 hours a day, seven days a week. The camera and recording system
must be of adequate quality, and cover all areas required by state law.
      4.   Video Surveillance: The video surveillance system must be stored for
a minimum of 90 days and be made available to law enforcement and code
enforcement upon request.
      5.   Alarm System: Professionally and centrally monitored fire, robbery,
and burglar alarm systems must be installed and maintained in good working
condition at the premises in accordance with California Code of Regulations,
Title 4, Division 19, Chapter 3, Section 15047.
      6.   Lighting: The parking lot and exterior of the establishment must
install and maintain good lighting which provides at least 2-foot candles of
coverage on all exterior portions of the property. Lighting must be shielded to
the extent feasible from neighboring properties. A photometric study must be
submitted, reviewed and approved by the Planning Commission as part of the
Conditional Use Permit. Additional or replacement fixtures may be required to
meet this standard.
      7.   Training: Provide training to staff regarding security protocols and
emergency procedures in accordance with state law.
      8.   Right of Inspection: All vehicles and facilities permitted under
this section are subject to inspection by City personnel or County Sheriff's
Department personnel any time the operator is exercising privileges under an
operator permit. Prior notice of an inspection is not required.
      9.   Secure Storage: All medical cannabis and medical cannabis products
must be kept in accordance with California Code of Regulations, Title 4,
Division 19, Chapter 3 Section 15000.7 during business and non-business hours.
Each non-storefront medical cannabis delivery-only operation must ensure that
all limited access areas and be securely locked using commercial grade, non-
residential door locks. Commercial grade, non-residential door locks must also
be used on all points of entry and exit to the licensed premises.
      10.   Owner/Employee Roster and Notice of Change: The business must keep
a roster on file with the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department and City with
the names and birth dates of all current employees, operator, and owner of the
delivery-only operation. The business must provide written notice to both
entities of any change in ownership or employees within 30 days of such change.
      11.   Other Necessary Security Requirements: The City Manager, or his or
her designee, may prescribe additional safety or security measures that he or
she deems reasonable and necessary in light of the nature and location of a
specific operation.
   F.   Operational Standards:
      1.   Business License and Permit: The business must comply with sections
5-1B-19 through
5-1B-20 and a business permit is required per
5-2A-0 through
5-2A-9 (Business Permits).
      2.   Hours of Operation: Non-storefront, delivery-only medical cannabis
retail operations may only operate during the hours authorized by their state
license and the Department of Cannabis Control regulations.
      3.   Delivery Requirements: The delivery of cannabis to any person within
the City limits is prohibited, except for delivery to medicinal cannabis to
medicinal cannabis patients or their primary caregivers. These deliveries to
medicinal cannabis patients or their primary caregivers are subject to the
following requirements:
         a.   Deliveries are only permitted to occur from the hours of 6:00
a.m. to 10:00 p.m.;
         b.   Cannabis and cannabis products must only be transported inside of
a vehicles or trailer and shall not be visible or identifiable from outside of
the vehicle or trailer; and
         c.   Deliveries are only permitted to a physical address not located
on publicly owned land or any address on land or in a building leased by a
public agency. A delivery employee must not deliver cannabis goods to a school
providing instruction in kindergarten or any grades 1 through 12, day care
center, or youth center.
      4.   Product Visibility: No cannabis or cannabis products may be visible
from outside the non-storefront medicinal cannabis delivery-only operations'
fixed location or delivery vehicles.
      5.   Signs and Displays: No visual display, sign, or condition on the
exterior of the non-storefront, delivery-only medicinal cannabis retail
operation's fixed locations or delivery vehicles will indicate the types of
products being stored inside the fixed location or transported in the delivery
vehicles. Signs are limited to the name of the business only and must be in
compliance with the zoning code. Signs must not contain advertising for other
companies, brands, goods, or services.
      6.   No Public Access: Non-storefront, delivery-only medicinal cannabis
retail operations must not permit public access to fixed locations or delivery
vehicles. Only employees, operators, and owners of non-storefront, delivery-
only medicinal cannabis retail operations may access the business' fixed
locations or delivery vehicles
      7.   No On-Site Sale: Non-storefront, delivery-only medicinal cannabis
retail operations must only conduct sales via delivery. On-site sales are
prohibited.
      8.   No Cannabis Paraphernalia: Non-storefront, delivery-only medicinal
cannabis retail operation must not sell or display any products other than
medicinal cannabis or medicinal cannabis products. No cannabis-related
paraphernalia or any other products, including but not limited to alcohol and
tobacco products are allowed.
      9.   Under 21 Years of Age: People under the age of 21 years of age must
not be in a commercial vehicle or trailer transporting cannabis or cannabis
products. Only a licensee, an employee of the license distributor, or security
personnel who meets the requirement of California Code of Regulations, Title 4,
Division 19, Chapter 3, Section 15045 may be in a vehicle while transporting
cannabis or cannabis products.
      10.   Amount of Transported Cannabis and Cash: No more than the maximum
amount of medical cannabis permitted under state law in total value of project
and cash may be transported at any one time in an individual vehicle during
deliveries.
      11.   Compliance with Other Laws: All non-storefront, delivery-only
medicinal cannabis retail operations must be conducted in accordance with all
local and state laws.
      12.   Other Necessary Operational Requirements: The city may prescribe
additional operational requirement deemed reasonable and necessary considering
the nature and location of a specific operation.
      13.   Acceptance of Cash: No receiving of cash may occur between a
customer and the retailer on the non-storefront premises. Cash may be received
when a delivery is completed. The business is strongly encouraged to use other
payments options besides cash.
      14.   Security Bars and Roll-Up Gates: Any security bars, roll-up gates,
and such may not be placed on the exterior of the structure and must comply
with all fire and building codes. Bars must be able to be opened from the
inside of the building without the need for a key, tool, special knowledge, or
excessive force. Security bars must allow visibility into the business to the
satisfaction of the City Manager or the City Manager's designee.
      15.   Storefront Visibility: Any window area within three feet above the
ground to seven feet above the ground must not have any window signs,
furniture, or other obstructions that would reduce or preclude visibility into
the storefront. The requirement applies to area from the window to 10 feet
within the storefront.
      16.   Closed to the Public: Access to the business may not be granted to
the public.
      17.   Selling Other Products: The business must not sell or display any
products other than medicinal cannabis and medicinal cannabis products.
      18.   Odor Control: All non-storefront, delivery-only medical cannabis
retail operations must incorporate and maintain adequate on-site odor control
measure in compliance with the Odor Mitigation Plan such that the odors as a
result of storing or transporting of cannabis and cannabis-related products
cannot be readily detected from outside of the structure or vehicle in which
the business operates.
         a.   The applicant must submit an Odor Mitigation Plan certified by a
profes   sional engineer or industrial hygienist that includes the following:
            (1)   Operational processes and maintenance plan, including
activities to ensure the odor mitigation system remains adequate and
functional;
            (2)   Odor mitigation training and operational procedures for all
employees;
            (3)   Engineering controls, which may include carbon filtration or
other methods of air cleansing, and evidence that such control are sufficient
to effectively mitigate odors form all odor sources. All odor mitigation
systems and plans submitted must be consistent with accepted and best available
industry-specific technologies designed to effectively mitigate cannabis odors.
      19.   Surveillance Systems: Security surveillance cameras and video
recording systems must be installed and maintained in good condition as
described in the security plan.
      20.   Security Video Retention: Video from the security surveillance
cameras must be maintained for at least 90 days and must be made immediately
available to City representatives upon request.
      21.   On-site Security Guard: The business must employ at least one
armed, uniformed security guard licensed by the State of California to be
present during normal business hours to include one-half hour before and after
normal business hours. The security guard must be charged with preventing
violations of the law; reporting suspicious people, vehicles, and
circumstances; and all criminal offences to the L.A. County Sheriff's
Department. Security guards must be uniformed in such a manner to be readily
identifiable as a security guard by the public and must be duly licensed as a
security guard as required by applicable provisions of state law. The sole
purpose of the security guard must be to provide for the protection and safety
of the business and its authorized personnel and said guard must not be
required to perform additional, non-security-related duties within the
business. The City reserves the right to review the number of guards and may
require that the number of guards be increased as necessary.
      22.   No Loitering: Individuals are not allowed to remain on the premises
unless they are engaging in activity expressly related to the operation of the
business.
      23.   Report of Criminal Activity: The business must immediately report
to the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department:
         a.   Any criminal conduct committed by owners, operators, agents or
employees;
         b.   Any crimes that occur at the fixed location or in a vehicle owned
or used by the business;
         c.   Any crimes against any employee, agent, operator, or owner of the
business during the performance of his/her duties; and/or
         d.   Any crimes against any customer of the business during any
transaction conducted by the business.
      24.   Delivery Vehicle Requirements:
         a.   All delivery vehicles must be equipped with a Global Position
System (GPS) tracking device. Data from the GPS tracking device must be
retained for 30 days. GPS data must be made available to the Los Angeles County
Sheriff's Department upon request.
         b.   All cannabis, cannabis products, and cash must be stored during
transport in secure safes or lockboxes permanently affixed to the delivery
vehicle.
         c.   All delivery vehicles must be registered with the City or the
L.A. County Sheriff's Department including the make, model, licenses plate
vehicle identification number and registration number of such vehicles.
         d.   All cannabis delivery vehicles must be equipped with, and
utilize, a vehicle alarm system.
         e.   All medical cannabis delivery vehicles must have and use a direct
communication system with the non-storefront, delivery-only medical cannabis
business.
         f.   All medical cannabis delivery vehicles must not carry more
medical cannabis than allowed by State law and required to fulfill all
immediate delivery requests.
      25.   Compliance with Security Plan: The business must implement and
maintain a security plan approved by the Los Angeles County Sheriff's
Department and the City. Such plan must include, at a minimum the above listed
security measures.
      26.   In Transit Requirements:
         a.   Only owners, operators, or employees of the business may be
present in vehicles during deliveries.
         b.   No more than the maximum amount of medical cannabis permitted
under state law in total value of produce and cash may be transported at any
one time in an individual vehicle during deliveries.
         c.   Delivery vehicles may only travel between fixed locations of the
business and the residential addresses specified by customers while
transporting medical cannabis and, or medical cannabis products.
         d.   All delivery vehicles must carry valid registration and proof of
employment at a licensed non-storefront, delivery-only medical cannabis retail
operation.
         e.   All delivery vehicles must carry a copy of the business'
regulatory permit, a copy of the delivery request, a form of government-issued
identification, and all other information required by State law. The driver
must present these documents upon the request of law enforcement, the City
Manager, or the City Manager's designee.
         f.   All drivers must carry an inventory log of cannabis and cannabis
products being transported.
         g.   Delivery drivers must be trained in the process for verifying
that medical cannabis and medical cannabis products are delivered to qualified
patients and adult-use customers and that the delivery drivers are trained in
the proper usage of medical cannabis.
      27.   Notification Requirements: The business must notify the Los Angeles
County Sheriff's Department and the City within 24 hours of discovering any of
the following:
         a.   Significant discrepancies identified during inventory: The level
of significance will be determined by the Los Angeles County Sheriff's
Department or the City Manager's designee.
         b.   The loss or unauthorized alteration of records related to medical
cannabis, medical cannabis products, registered qualifying patients, primary
caregivers, or a non-storefront, delivery-only medical cannabis retail
operation's agents, owners, operators, investors, partners, or employees.
         c.   Any other material breach of security.
      28.   Contact Requirements: The business must provide the City Manager or
his/her designee with the name, cell phone number, and email address of an on-
site representative to whom the City and the public can provide notice if there
are any operational problems associated with the business. Each business must
make every good faith effort to encourage residents and the public to call this
representative to resolve any operational problems before any calls or
complaints are made to the City or law enforcement.
      29.   Owner, Operator, and Employee Requirements: To be eligible to
obtain a regulatory permit from the City the business must meet the following
criteria:
         a.   All owners, operators, partners, investors, employees, and agents
must be 21 years of age or older and must submit to a background search.
         b.   No owners, operators, partners, investors, employees, and agents
of the business are allowed to have been convicted of a felony or crime of
moral turpitude to have been found by any State or local government to have
committed a violation of the Medicinal and Adult-Use Cannabis Regulation and
Safety Act (MAUCRSA). The City reserves the right to waive this requirement in
relation to violations of MAUCRSA if he or she determines that the violation
was minor in nature and would not undermine the safe and effective operation of
the proposed business in accordance with applicable laws.
      30.   Legal, Fully Enclosed and Secure Structure: The business must be
within a legal, fully enclosed and secure structure compliant with all
applicable state and local laws.
      31.   No Additional Business: The business must not grow cultivate,
manufacture, test or process cannabis. The business must not be operated as a
cannabis cultivation, manufacturing, or testing facility, unless expressly and
affirmatively authorized by State and local law.
      32.   Delivery Recipients: Delivery must only be to medicinal cannabis
patients or their primary caregivers only.
         a.   The business must not dispense or delivery medicinal cannabis to
any person without a physician's recommendation. The physician's recommendation
may not be made onsite.
         b.   The business must only deliver medical cannabis to individuals
who provide government-issued identification and adequate documentation
demonstrating qualification to purchase, obtain, or possess medicinal cannabis
on their own behalf or as their primary caregiver.
         c.   The physician's recommendation must be verified by the business
prior to dispensing or delivery any medical cannabis to a qualified patient or
primary caregiver, and at least every six months thereafter.
      33.   Inspected Products: Each business must deliver medical cannabis
products only after those medical cannabis products have been inspected and
quality tested by a qualified third-party testing facility as required by
applicable State law.
      34.   Labeling and Packaging: Prior to sale for a delivery, medical
cannabis products must be labeled and placed in tamper-evident packaging.
Labels and packages of medical cannabis products must, at minimum, meet the
requirements specified under applicable State laws.
      35.   Tracking System: The business must be compliant in the state
mandate California Cannabis Track and Trace system.
      36.   Parking Requirements: The parking requirement for this use will be
set by the Conditional Use Permit. The applicant will conduct a parking study
looking at similarly situated uses to provide evidence of sufficient parking.
   G.   Record Keeping Requirements:
      1.   The business must keep the following records:
         a.   All delivery vehicle maintenance records.
         b.   All delivery vehicle ownership records.
         c.   All shipping manifests for completed and in-transit deliveries.
         d.   A contemporaneous inventory log.
         e.   Delivery log including location, time, and delivery driver.
         f.   Quality assurance details for all cannabis and cannabis products
stored and/or delivered by the business.
         g.   A copy of the physician's recommendation and, if using a primary
caregiver, a notarized written authorization from the patient to be represented
by such primary caregiver.
         h.   Other records as needed to account for the total quantity of
medical cannabis retained, sold, and delivered on or form the premises.
      2.   The business must maintain patient records in a secure location
within the City, available for inspection upon demand by the City Manager, the
City Manager's designee, or law enforcement.
      3.   The above records must be maintained for three years from the date
created.
   H.   Promulgation of Regulations, Standards, and Other Legal Duties: In
addition to any regulations adopted by the City Council, the City Manager is
authorized to establish any additional rules, regulations, and standards
governing the issuance, denial or renewal of the non-storefront, delivery-only
medical cannabis retail permits, the ongoing operation of such a business and
the City's oversight, or concerning any other subject determined to be
necessary to carry out the purposed of this article. Regulations promulgated by
the City Manager will become effective upon the date of publication.
   I.   Limitations on City's Liability:
      1.   To the fullest extent permitted by law, the City does not assume any
liability whatsoever, with respect to approving any permit pursuant to this
article or the operation of any such business approved under this article.
      2.   As a condition of approval of a permit in this article, the
applicant or its legal representative must do the following:
         a.   Execute an agreement indemnifying the City from any claims,
damages, injuries, or liability of any kind associated with operation of the
business, issuance of a permit to the business, or the prosecution of the
business or its owners, managers, directors, officers, employees, or its
qualified patient or primary caregivers for violation of federal or state laws;
         b.   Maintain insurance in the amounts and of the types that are
acceptable to the City Manager or designee; and
         c.   Reimburse the City for all costs and expenses, including but not
limited to legal fees and costs and court costs, which the City may be required
to pay as a result of any legal challenge related to the City's approval of a
conditional use permit or a non-storefront, delivery-only medical cannabis
retail regulatory permit or related to the City's approval of such a business.
The City, at its sole discretion, may participate at its own expense in the
defense of any such action, but such participation shall relieve the applicant
of any of the obligations imposed hereunder.
   J.   Identification Card Required: The permittee and all employees must
obtain an identification card issued under the provision of
9-1T-22 (Title 9, Chapter 1, Article T) and must always have such
identification card in their possession while engaged in the activity regulated
by this article.
   K.   Enforcement:
      1.   A violation of this article is subject to the administrative penalty
provisions of Title 1, Chapter 4 of this Code. Where the violation is of a
continuing nature, each day or portion thereof where in the violation continues
constitutes a separate and distinct violation.
      2.   A permit to operate a non-storefront, delivery-only medical cannabis
retail business may be revoked or suspended pursuant to Title 5 of this code.
   L.   Findings of Fact: In addition to the standard findings of fact for a
conditional use permit, the decision-making authority may only approve the
conditional use permit if all the following findings are also made.
      1.   The proposed location of the non-storefront, delivery-only medical
cannabis retail business will not be detrimental to adjacent property or to the
public welfare.
      2.   The proposed use will have adequate buffering between the use and
residential areas and will not adversely interfere with the use and enjoyment
of residential properties in the vicinity of the proposed development.
      3.   The proposed use will not result in detrimental impact to existing
or anticipated residential or commercial development in the vicinity of the
project with regard to traffic levels, traffic safety, pedestrian-vehicle
conflicts, pedestrian safety, hazards, and loading or manner of operation.
      4.   The proposed use will not create excessive noise, unpleasant odor,
noxious fumes, excessive lighting, increased litter, or substantial
interference with neighboring properties or uses due to the activities
associated with the proposed use or its hours of operation.
      5.   The proposed use will not create an over concentration of non-
storefront, delivery-only, medical cannabis retailers in the vicinity. (Ord.
25-1081 U)
CHAPTER 2
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-2-0: Purpose
9-2-1: Name
9-2-2: General
9-2-3: Improvements
9-2-4: Dedications
9-2-5: Parcel Maps
9-2-6: Limitation On Improvements
9-2-7: Reservations Of Conditions
9-2-8: Record Title Interests On Parcel Maps
9-2-9: Evidence Of Title For Parcel Maps
9-2-10: Reimbursement
9-2-11: Soils Report
9-2-12: Improvement Security
9-2-13: Subdivision Fees
9-2-14: Lot Split Procedure
9-2-15: Filing Of Partial Lot Split Maps
9-2-16: Parcel Map Waiver
9-2-17: Lot Consolidation
9-2-18: Minor Lot Line Adjustments
9-2-19: Processing By Council
9-2-20: Urban Lot Split Procedure
9-2-0: PURPOSE:
The provisions of this chapter are adopted pursuant to the subdivision map act
(section 66411 et seq., of the Government Code; hereafter "act") for the
purpose of regulating the design and improvement of subdivisions, and
regulating other divisions of land within the city. (1960 Code; amd. Ord. 75-
416)
9-2-1: NAME:
This chapter shall be referred to as the city's SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS. (1960
Code)
9-2-2: GENERAL:
   A.   Designations: Pursuant to the act, the following designations are made:
      1.   Advisory Agency: The planning commission shall act as the advisory
agency within the meaning of said act and shall report its findings and
recommendations on subdivisions and other matters within its jurisdiction as
described in said act, and in this chapter, to the city council; and
      2.   Appeal Board: The city council shall act, where appropriate, as the
appeal board for purposes of the act and this chapter.
   B.   Maps:
      1.   Tentative Maps: Whenever the act of this chapter requires that a
parcel map be prepared and submitted for approval and recordation, a tentative
map shall first be prepared and submitted in accordance with the provisions of
the act and/or this chapter.
      2.   Filing Of Maps: Whenever a tentative, final or parcel map is
required to be filed pursuant to the act or this chapter, such map shall be
filed with the city engineer.
   C.   Adoption Of Standards: Whenever improvements are required to be
constructed, pursuant to the act or this chapter, the construction of such
improvement shall be accomplished in compliance with the city's standards
therefor, which have heretofore been adopted by the city council of this city.
Copies of said standards are on file in the office of the city clerk of this
city and are available for public inspection.
   D.   Definitions: Except where the context otherwise clearly require, the
definitions, set forth hereinafter, shall be applied to the words and phrases
used in this chapter.
      1.   The definitions set forth in the act shall be deemed to be
definitions applicable to the same words and phrases used in this chapter; and
   CITY: The city of Temple City.
   CITY CLERK: The city clerk of the city of Temple City.
   CITY ENGINEER: The city engineer of the city of Temple City.
   LOT SPLIT: Whenever the phrase "lot split" is used in this chapter, it shall
be deemed to mean a division of land, which has the effect of creating four (4)
or less lots, improved, or unimproved, shown on the "equalized Los Angeles
County assessment roll" in effect as of January 1, 1968, as a unit or as
contiguous units, for the purpose of sale, transfer of title, lease, or
financing, whether immediate or future. Units shall be considered contiguous
even if the same are separated by highways, alleys, streets, utility or public
easements or railroad rights of way. "Lot split" shall also include condominium
project as defined in the Civil Code and a community apartment project defined
in the Business And Professions Code. Conveyance of land to a public entity or
public utility shall not be considered a division of land for the purposes of
computing the number of parcels or lots to be created by a lot split.
      2.   The definitions set forth in the Temple City zoning regulations
shall be deemed to be definitions applicable to this chapter. (1960 Code)
9-2-3: IMPROVEMENTS:
No subdivision, lot split or other division of land contemplated by said act
and/or this chapter, shall be approved unless the following improvements are
constructed or required to be constructed in order to service the lots being
created:
   A.   An adequate water distribution system designed and constructed to
accommodate both domestic and fire flows, together with necessary fire hydrants
to serve each lot proposed to be created;
   B.   An adequate sewage system designed and constructed to serve each lot
being created;
   C.   An adequate stormwater drainage system designed and constructed so as
to serve each of the lots proposed to be created;
   D.   An adequate public and/or private street and/or alley system designed
and constructed to serve each lot proposed to be created;
   E.   An adequate system designed and constructed so as to provide all
necessary utilities to each lot proposed to be created, including, but not
limited to, facilities for water, natural gas, electricity, telephone services;
and
   F.   Any and all other public improvements, necessary to provide all
services to each lot proposed to be created.
Each tentative map shall be reviewed by the staff, the advisory agency and/or
the city council, and thereafter, steps shall be taken to ensure that all of
the improvements reasonably required to service all of the lots proposed to be
created are specifically required as conditions of approval on such tentative
maps. (1960 Code)
9-2-4: DEDICATIONS:
No subdivisions, lot split or other division of land contemplated by the act or
this chapter, shall be approved, unless the subdivider and/or owner dedicates
to the city, or, at the option of the city, makes irrevocable offers of
dedication to the city, of sufficient interests in real property, located
within the boundaries of the subdivision, lot split, or other division of land,
to accommodate all streets, alleys, drainage facilities, sewage facilities,
public utility easements and such other easements, as may be deemed necessary
to properly service the lots proposed to be created, including, but not limited
to, dedication, or irrevocable offers of dedication, of access rights and/or
abutter's rights of whatever kind or nature. Where appropriate on a particular
subdivision, lot split or other division of land contemplated by the act or
this chapter, the waiver of direct access rights, as contemplated by section
66476 of the act may be required, if the public interest necessitates such
waiver, as determined by the city council.
The precise areas proposed for such dedication or offers of dedication, shall
be established as conditions of approval on the tentative map proposed for such
subdivision, lot split or other division of land. (1960 Code)
9-2-5: PARCEL MAPS:
Where dedication of property is required, with reference to a parcel map, such
dedication shall be accomplished by a certificate placed upon the face of the
parcel map, in the same manner as is required of a final map pursuant to the
act. (1960 Code)
9-2-6: LIMITATION ON IMPROVEMENTS:
Improvements and/or dedications required pursuant to sections
9-2-3 and
9-2-4 of this chapter, with reference to a subdivision, lot split or other
division of land contemplated by the act and/or this chapter, may be so
required whether the same are included within the boundaries of the tentative
map for such subdivision, lot split or other division of land contemplated by
the act or this chapter, provided that such improvements and/or dedications are
reasonable required to service the lots proposed to be created by such land
division. (1960 Code)
9-2-7: RESERVATIONS OF CONDITIONS:
Where the city council finds that the public interest so required, it may, as a
condition of approval, on a subdivision, lot split or other division of land
contemplated by the act or this chapter, require that there be a reservation of
land made for parks, recreational facilities, fire station, libraries or other
public uses, as contemplated by section 66479 of the act. No such reservation
shall be so imposed except in compliance with the provisions of the act. (1960
Code)
9-2-8: RECORD TITLE INTERESTS ON PARCEL MAPS:
The signatures of all parties having any record title interest in the real
property being subdivided shall not be required on any final parcel map unless
dedications or offers of dedication are made by certificate on the parcel map.
(1960 Code)
9-2-9: EVIDENCE OF TITLE FOR PARCEL MAPS:
Evidence of title shall be submitted with all final parcel maps. This shall
show all fee interest holders, all interest holders whose interest could ripen
into a fee, all trust deeds together with the name of the trustee, and all
easement holders. (1960 Code)
9-2-10: REIMBURSEMENT:
Pursuant to section 66485 of the act, where the city council finds that the
public interest so requires, it shall be deemed a requirement of this chapter
that any subdivision, lot split or other division of land contemplated by the
act or this chapter, that the subdivider shall supplement the size, capacity or
number of any improvements otherwise required for the benefit of the lots
proposed to be created, which said supplemental size, capacity and/or number is
for the benefit of property not included within such subdivision, lot split or
other division of land contemplated by the act or this chapter. Where such
supplemental improvements are so required, reimbursement agreements shall be
executed, as is provided in section 66486 et seq., of said act. (1960 Code)
9-2-11: SOILS REPORT:
A soils report, as contemplated by section 66490 of the act, shall be required
for each major subdivision. Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, the
city council may waive the requirement of a preliminary soils report if it
finds that due to the knowledge the staff has concerning quality of the soils
included within the subdivision, no such preliminary analysis is necessary.
(1960 Code)
9-2-12: IMPROVEMENT SECURITY:
With respect to any subdivision, lot split or other division of land
contemplated by the act or this chapter, as to which certain improvements are
required pursuant to said act or this chapter, and the said improvements are
not constructed and installed in accordance with the city's standards therefor,
as of the time of submission of a final map for approval, the city council, in
its discretion, may act in the following manner:
   A.   The city council may execute an agreement with the subdivider or other
qualified person, providing for the construction of such improvements; provided
that any such agreement shall contain provisions concerning security for the
construction of such improvements. Such security shall consist of the type
described in subdivision (a), (b) or (c) of section 66499 of the act whichever
may be authorized by the city council. The amount of such security shall be set
in accordance with section 66499.3 et seq., of said act.
   B.   The city council may determine that an agreement with security attached
is unnecessary given the extent of the public improvements required and may
approve the final map with direction to city staff to withhold a certificate of
occupancy and not send a release to the natural gas utility provider until the
required public improvements are completed. (Ord. 16-1014)
9-2-13: SUBDIVISION FEES:
By resolution, the city council shall set appropriate filing and processing
fees which shall apply to all subdivisions and other divisions of land
contemplated by the act. (1960 Code)
9-2-14: LOT SPLIT PROCEDURE:
The provisions of this section shall apply to the processing of lot splits.
   A.   Filing: All applications for lot splits shall be filed, together with a
tentative map therefor, with the city engineer, on forms provided by him for
such purposes; and
   B.   Fees: Prior to processing any application for a lot split, the
applicant shall pay to the city treasurer such fees as may be required by
resolution of the city council pertaining to the same; and
   C.   Staff Review: The planning director shall circulate the application for
a lot split, together with the tentative map relating thereto, to affected city
departments for review and comment. The planning director shall be responsible
for preparing an appropriate staff report for submission to the planning
commission, which shall include all other relevant departmental comments
relating to the proposed lot split. Such staff report shall be transmitted to
the planning commission and to the applicant for review and consideration; and
   D.   Planning Commission Action: Where the planning commission finds that
any of the lots proposed to be created would not comply with applicable
provisions of this code, or if it finds that any facts exist which would,
pursuant to the act, be a basis for denying a subdivision, it shall deny said
application.
Where the commission finds that the lots proposed to be created will comply
with the said code, but that certain improvements and/or dedications are
required to properly service a lot proposed to be created, the planning
commission shall approve the lot split application conditionally, so as to
ensure that all such improvements and/or dedications will be constructed in
accordance with the city's standards therefor.
The action of the planning commission upon a lot split application shall be
final and conclusive, in the absence of an appeal taken in the time and manner
hereinafter set forth; and
   E.   Appeal Of Planning Commission Decision: Any interested person may
appeal the action of the planning commission with reference to a lot split
application by filing a written letter of appeal with the city clerk,
describing therein the basis for such appeal; the city clerk shall not accept
such a letter of appeal unless a filing and processing fee, as set by city
council resolution, has been paid, and such letter of appeal is filed with the
clerk within not to exceed fifteen (15) calendar days following the planning
commission's action. Upon receipt of a timely filed appeal, the city clerk
shall place the matter on the city council's agenda at its next most convenient
meeting.
At the time that such appeal is reviewed by the city council, it shall herein
consider the application, the staff report and all other relevant evidence
presented by the applicant or any other interested person concerning such lot
split. Thereafter, the city council shall take one of the following courses of
action:
      1.   If it finds that the lots proposed to be created will not comply
with all applicable provisions of this code, including, but not limited to, the
zoning regulations, or, if it finds that any facts exist which would, pursuant
to the act, be a basis for disapproving a subdivision, it shall deny such
application; or
      2.   If it shall find that the lots proposed to be created will meet the
provisions of said code, but that improvements and/or dedications are required,
it shall conditionally approve such application in such manner as is necessary
to ensure construction of such improvement and/or dedications and to guarantee
that prior to the filing of the final map the same will be constructed or
guaranteed in an appropriate manner; or
      3.   If it finds that the lot proposed to be created will meet the
requirements of said code, and that no dedication or improvements are required,
it shall approve the tentative map. All actions of the city council shall be
final and conclusive. (1960 Code)
9-2-15: FILING OF PARTIAL LOT SPLIT MAPS:
Where a division of real property, by sale or lease, has taken place, which
division requires conformance to the provisions of section
9-2-14, "Lot Split Procedure", of this chapter, but approval has not been
obtained, as provided in that section, and the purchaser of one or more of the
parcels so divided, has been refused a building permit or a certificate of
occupancy, or has attempted to file a lot split map on his property but the
same has been refused, by reason of noncompliance with that section, the city
council may by motion direct the city engineer to accept a partial lot split
map for filing relating to such purchaser's property only, provided that such
purchaser agrees that he will construct improvements and dedicate areas as may
be necessary to comply with the provisions of said section
 9-2-14, "Lot Split Procedure", of this chapter if it finds the following facts
to be present:
   A.   That the purchaser at the time of his purchase of the property was
unaware of the application of the provisions of section
9-2-14, "Lot Split Procedure", of this chapter to his property; and
   B.   That the purchaser has unsuccessfully attempted to obtain the approval
and concurrence of the other purchasers and/or his vendor in the filing of a
lot split map covering all of the property divided without compliance with said
section
 9-2-14 of this chapter; and
   C.   That to refuse to accept a lot split map relating to the property of
the injured purchaser only, will work an undue hardship upon such person; and
   D.   That the public interest will be furthered by permitting such filing.
Nothing in this section shall be deemed to relieve any owner, purchaser, or
vendor of any real property from the filing of a lot split map, nor shall it be
deemed to waive or modify the requirements for such filing on all remaining
portions of property so divided. (1960 Code)
9-2-16: PARCEL MAP WAIVER:
Pursuant to the provisions of section 66428 of the subdivision map act, and
subject to making the findings provided therein, the city council or planning
commission may waive the requirements of a parcel map. (1960 Code)
9-2-17: LOT CONSOLIDATION:
The provisions of this section shall apply to the processing of lot
consolidations.
   A.   Authority: The community development director shall have the authority
to grant lot consolidations that conform to this code upon filing such
consolidation of record.
   B.   Notice Of Application Submittal: Notice that the application has been
submitted shall be mailed to the owners of properties within one hundred feet
(100') as shown on the latest equalized assessment roll of the county of Los
Angeles, or from other records of the assessor or county tax collector which
contain more recent and accurate addresses by United States mail, postage
prepaid. Notices shall contain a description of the location, a brief
description of the proposal, the deadline to submit comments, the date the
director is scheduled to make a decision, and information about when and how an
appeal may be filed.
   C.   Comment Period: Written comments received by the director during this
period shall be considered as part of the staff review. The comment period
shall be ten (10) days from the date notice is provided.
   D.   Appeal Authority: Decisions of the director may be appealed to the
planning commission. Decisions by the commission may be appealed to the city
council.
   E.   Appeal Initiation, Filing, Content: Appeals may be initiated by an
applicant, any resident of the city, or any person owning real property in the
city aggrieved by a decision of the director. A notice of appeal shall be in
writing and shall be filed in the office of the city clerk upon forms provided
by the city. An appeal from decision, determination, or interpretation of the
director in the administration of the provisions of this chapter must set forth
specifically the error or abuse of discretion claimed by the appellant or how
an application did meet or fail to meet, as the case may be, the standards of
this chapter.
   F.   Appeal Hearing And Notice: Once filed, the appeal shall be held before
the planning commission at their next meeting where the noticing requirements
can be met. Appeal hearings shall be noticed in accordance with subsection B of
this section.
   G.   Commission Decision: On an appeal from a decision of the director, the
planning commission shall consider the matter at a public hearing and may
affirm, reverse or modify the decision of the director. If the applicant or any
other party as defined in subsection E of this section is dissatisfied with the
decision of the commission, they may within a fifteen (15) day time period,
appeal the same to the council, in the same manner as an appeal is taken from
the decision of the director. An appeal to the council shall be filed with the
city clerk. (Ord. 16-1014)
9-2-18: MINOR LOT LINE ADJUSTMENTS:
The provisions of this section shall apply to the processing of lot line
adjustments.
   A.   Final Map Not Required: Notwithstanding any other provision of this
chapter, the filing of a final parcel map shall not be required.
   B.   New Construction Park Fees: The provisions of sections
9-5-3 and
9-5-4 of this title shall be inapplicable.
   C.   Notice Of Application Submittal: Notice that the application has been
submitted shall be mailed to the owners of properties within one hundred feet
(100') as shown on the latest equalized assessment roll of the county of Los
Angeles, or from other records of the assessor or county tax collector which
contain more recent and accurate addresses by United States mail, postage
prepaid. Notices shall contain a description of the location, a brief
description of the proposal, the deadline to submit comments, the date the
director is scheduled to make a decision, and information about when and how an
appeal may be filed.
   D.   Comment Period: Written comments received by the director during this
period shall be considered as part of the staff review. The comment period
shall be ten (10) days from the date notice is provided.
   E.   Findings: A lot line adjustment shall be approved upon making the
following findings:
      1.   That the proposed division of land will not result in the creation
of any new lots or the reorientation of any existing lots;
      2.   That no public improvements or dedications are necessary to properly
service the lots involved; and
      3.   That the lots involved will conform in all respects to the
requirements of this code.
   F.   Appeal Authority: Decisions of the director may be appealed to the
planning commission. Decisions by the commission may be appealed to the city
council.
   G.   Appeal Initiation, Filing, Content: Appeals may be initiated by an
applicant, any resident of the city, or any person owning real property in the
city aggrieved by a decision of the director. A notice of appeal shall be in
writing and shall be filed in the office of the city clerk upon forms provided
by the city. An appeal from decision, determination, or interpretation of the
director in the administration of the provisions of this chapter must set forth
specifically the error or abuse of discretion claimed by the appellant or how
an application did meet or fail to meet, as the case may be, the standards of
this chapter.
   H.   Appeal Hearing And Notice: Once filed, the appeal shall be held before
the planning commission at their next meeting where the noticing requirements
can be met. Appeal hearings shall be noticed in accordance with subsection C of
this section.
   I.   Commission Decision: On an appeal from a decision of the director, the
planning commission shall consider the matter at a public hearing and may
affirm, reverse or modify the decision of the director. If the applicant or any
other party as defined in subsection G of this section is dissatisfied with the
decision of the commission, they may within a fifteen (15) day time period,
appeal the same to the council, in the same manner as an appeal is taken from
the decision of the director. An appeal to the council shall be filed with the
city clerk. (Ord. 16-1014)
9-2-19: PROCESSING BY COUNCIL:
Whenever the city council finds that the time limits provided by the
subdivision map act or hardship to a particular developer will be involved in
the processing of a parcel map, because of the schedule of meetings of the
planning commission, or the failure of the planning commission to attain a
quorum, then the city council may exercise original jurisdiction over such
tentative or final parcel maps, and in every manner act and process such
tentative and final parcel map in the place and stead of the planning
commission, in which case the decision of the city council shall be final.
(1960 Code)
9-2-20: URBAN LOT SPLIT PROCEDURE:
The provisions of this section apply to the processing of urban lot splits.
   A.   Application: An application for the urban lot split must be filed and
reviewed pursuant to
9-1C-5-B. All applications must include a tentative parcel map and the
applicable review fees
   B.   Approval Authority: The community development director (“director”)
acts on all urban lot splits and has the authority to interpret and establish
guidance and procedures for the approving and finalizing tentative parcel maps
for such urban lot splits, in a manner consistent with state and local law.
   C.   Public Hearing: Urban lot splits do not require a public hearing.
   D.   Notice: Notice is not required for an urban lot split.
   E.   Staff Review: The director will circulate the application for an urban
lot split, together with the tentative map, to affected city departments for
review and comment. Staff will transmit to the applicant for review and
consideration comments from the city departments.
   F.   Approval: If the application for the urban lot split meets all the
requirements of
9-1T-21-B, the director will approve the urban lot split ministerially and
without a public hearing. The action of the director upon an urban lot split
application is final and conclusive, in the absence of an appeal.
   G.   Appeal of Director’s Decision: Decisions of the director may be
appealed to the Planning Commission in compliance with section
9-1C-5-G. (Ord. 21-1059)
CHAPTER 3
CONDOMINIUM CONVERSIONS
SECTION:
9-3-0: Intent And Purpose
9-3-1: Definitions
9-3-2: Conversion Procedures
9-3-3: Design Criteria
9-3-0: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
These condominium regulations are intended to provide criteria and guidelines
for condominium conversion as defined herein. The standards include density,
parking, open space, light and air, pedestrian and vehicular traffic
circulation and are intended to create condominium projects that are well
designed, aesthetically pleasing, compatible with the surrounding community, of
a pleasing and desirable character, to harmonize with adjacent residential use,
and so as to maintain a reasonable balance in the supply of rental and
ownership dwelling units.
Although this is an amendment to the subdivision ordinance, it shall be deemed,
where applicable, an amendment to the Temple City zoning code and building
codes. The city has found that these regulations are consistent with, and
necessary to carry out, the goals and objectives of the general plan. (1960
Code; amd. Ord. 79-486)
9-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
Condominium conversion is a process or effect of transferring ownership of a
building from residential units to a condominium in accordance with appropriate
law. Condominium conversion, as used in this chapter, shall mean the conversion
of existing units to condominiums, community apartment projects, or stock
cooperatives (condominiums and community apartment projects are required to
comply with the subdivision map act while stock cooperatives are not, unless
made so by the California department of real estate).
   COMMUNITY APARTMENT PROJECT: Joint ownership of the land by the various
owners with an exclusive right to occupy a given dwelling unit.
   CONDOMINIUM: Joint ownership of the land by the purchasers with ownership of
a defined area of air space where the dwelling unit is located as more fully
defined in the California Civil Code.
   STOCK COOPERATIVE: Ownership of the land and buildings by a corporation;
tenants own shares of stock and thus are entitled to an exclusive right to
occupy a dwelling unit, or they lease a dwelling unit. (1960 Code)
9-3-2: CONVERSION PROCEDURES:
Conversion of existing residential units to condominiums, stock cooperatives,
or community apartment projects shall be subject to the following:
   A.   The approval of a conditional use permit, pursuant to section
 9-1F-10 of this title, shall first be required.
   B.   Residential condominium conversions shall be permitted only in zones R-
2 and R-3.
   C.   An application for a tentative and final tract map shall be submitted
for approval in accordance with established requirements. A site plan, floor
and elevation plans also shall be submitted for review and approval.
   D.   Covenants, conditions and restrictions (CC&Rs), incorporating the
conditional use permit as nonamendable, shall be submitted to the planning
department for city attorney review and approval by the planning commission
and/or city council prior to submittal of the final tract.
   E.   The developer shall submit a property report describing the age and
condition of each of the following elements of each structure situated within
the project proposed for conversion: foundations, exterior walls, fire walls,
roof, stairways and exits, interior insulation (sound and thermal), exterior
insulation (sound and thermal), light and ventilation, plumbing, electrical,
heating and air conditioning, fire and earthquake safety provisions, security
provisions, interior common or public areas, landscaping, and trash control.
Such report shall be prepared by a licensed civil engineer or an architect
registered in California, and shall provide methods and costs for the
correction or improvement of any deficiencies noted.
   F.   The developer shall submit a structural pest report. Such report shall
be prepared by a licensed structural pest control operator pursuant to section
8516 of the Business And Professions Code, relating to written reports on the
absence or presence of wood destroying pests or organisms, and shall provide
methods and costs for corrective work for both accessible and nonaccessible
areas.
   G.   Approval of a certificate of occupancy shall be required for any such
conversion. Upon receipt of an application for a certificate of occupancy, the
building official shall cause an inspection to be made of all buildings and
structures in the proposed condominium, community apartment project or stock
cooperative. The building official shall prepare an inspection report,
identifying all items not in conformance with the current city building,
electrical, wiring, mechanical and plumbing codes, and any additional equipment
and facilities he determines to be deteriorated or hazardous. The developer
shall repair, replace or add any equipment or facilities determined to be in
violation of current city codes to the extent such violations are deteriorated,
hazardous, or susceptible to feasible and economic correction. It is the intent
hereof that all conversions shall be brought up to substantial compliance with
building codes for new construction at the time of conversion.
   H.   The developer shall provide a schedule of proposed improvements which
shall be made to the project prior to their sale.
   I.   All tenants then occupying the proposed conversion site shall be
notified of the public hearing before the planning commission and city council.
A list of tenants shall be supplied by the applicant. If permit for conversion
is approved, the developer shall provide each tenant a preemptive right in
writing (copy to city) to purchase a unit of exclusive occupancy on the same
terms as offered for sale to anyone else. Such right shall be irrevocable for a
period of ninety (90) days after the commencement of sales or the issuance of
the final public report by the real estate commissioner. It is recognized that
tenants who purchase may be temporarily displaced during construction.
   J.   In addition to the above requirements, no application for a condominium
conversion project shall be accepted for any purpose unless the application
includes the following:
      1.   Development Plan: A development plan of the project including:
         a.   The location, height, gross floor area, and proposed uses for
each existing structure to remain and for each proposed new structure;
         b.   The location and type of surfacing for all driveway, pedestrian
ways, vehicle parking areas, and curb cuts, and open storage area;
         c.   The location, height, and type of materials for walls, fences and
trash enclosures;
         d.   The location of all landscaped areas, the type of landscaping;
         e.   The location and size of the parking facilities to be used in
conjunction with each condominium unit;
         f.   The location, type and size of all drainage pipes and structures
depicted or described to the nearest public drain or watercourse;
         g.   The location and type of the nearest fire hydrants;
         h.   The location, type and size of all on site and adjacent street
overhead utility lines;
         i.   A lighting plan of the project;
         j.   Existing and proposed exterior elevations;
         k.   The location of and provisions for any unique natural and/or
vegetative site features.
      2.   Copy To Buyers: The original owner shall provide each purchaser with
a copy of all reports (in their final, acceptable form) along with the
department of real estate white report, prior to said purchaser, completing an
escrow agreement or other contract to purchase a unit in the project, and said
developer shall give the purchaser sufficient time to review said reports.
Copies of the reports shall be made available at all times at the sales office
and shall be posted as approved by the city. (1960 Code)
9-3-3: DESIGN CRITERIA:
All such conversions shall be subject to the following, unless excused as a
part of the conditional use permit, and the burden shall be on applicant to
show the need for such excuse by applying the same standards as for a variance
under section
9-1F-1 of this title.
Residential condominium conversions shall be permitted only in zones R-2 and R-
3 provided, however, that no condominium conversion projects shall be
considered or approved with less than three (3) dwelling units.
   A.   Minimum Lot Area: The minimum lot area for each condominium unit,
regardless of the number of bedrooms, shall be three thousand six hundred
(3,600) square feet for R-2 and two thousand four hundred (2,400) square feet
for R-3 zones.
   B.   Minimum Floor Area: Each dwelling unit shall have a minimum floor area
as follows:
 
1 bedroom unit              750 square feet
2 bedroom unit              900 square feet
3 bedroom unit              1,100 square feet
For each additional bedroom 150 square feet
 
   C.   Open Space: Open space shall be required as follows:
 
R-2 500 square feet for each dwelling unit
R-3 300 square feet for each 1 or 2 bedroom units
    400 square feet for each unit with 3 bedroom or more units
 
   D.   Fire Compliance: Compliance with the requirements of the fire
department regarding matters such as fire flow, hydrant location and driveway
width.
   E.   Parking: Each condominium unit shall be provided with:
      1.   Two (2) enclosed parking spaces plus one enclosed or open parking
space for each two (2) units. Units with three (3) or more bedrooms shall
require an additional one-half (1/2) parking space;
      2.   Tandem parking is prohibited.
      3.   No use shall be made of any parking area or access thereto, other
than for the parking of vehicles; such spaces shall be used for no other
purpose at any time. The CC&Rs shall contain such restriction.
   F.   Storage: A single area having a minimum of two hundred (200) cubic feet
of private and secure storage space shall be provided for each unit exclusive
of closets and cupboards, within the dwelling unit. Said storage may be located
within the garage, provided it does not interfere with automobile parking.
   G.   Trash And Garbage Area: Adequate trash and garbage collection and pick
up area shall be provided for use within one hundred fifty feet (150') of each
unit in a location or locations accessible to a public street or alley, and
enclosed on three (3) sides by a five foot (5') high masonry, brick or concrete
wall which shall be enclosed with solid decorative gates of the same height.
Such areas may be for individual dwelling units independent of others, or for
groups of dwelling units or for all such dwelling units. Areas for group use
shall be set back or otherwise protected from adjacent properties and streets.
   H.   Plumbing (Gas And Water) Shutoff Valves: Separate full way shutoff
valves shall be provided to each dwelling unit.
   I.   Utility Meters: Each utility that is controlled by and consumed within
the dwelling unit shall be separately metered in such a way that the unit owner
can be separately billed for its use. Each unit shall have access to its own
meter(s) and heater(s) which shall not require entry through another unit. Each
unit shall have its own panel, or access thereto, for all electrical circuits
which serve the unit.
   J.   Sound Insulation: Common wall and floor-ceiling assemblies shall be
required to conform to the sound insulation performance criteria as required
for new buildings.
   K.   Mechanical Equipment Noise Prevention: All permanent mechanical
equipment, which is determined to be a source of potential vibration or noise,
shall be shock mounted as determined by the building officials.
   L.   Attic Sound Insulation: Attic separations shall be installed separating
each individual unit with the same sound insulation and security as required
for party walls.
   M.   Sewer: A separate connection to the public sewer shall be provided for
each unit to the extent feasible.
   N.   Other Requirements: Such other requirements as are determined as a
result of public hearings to be necessary to accomplish the intent and purpose
hereof. (1960 Code; amd. Ord. 01-855)
CHAPTER 4
CONDOMINIUM CONSTRUCTION
SECTION:
9-4-0: Intent And Purpose
9-4-1: Definitions
9-4-2: Construction Procedures
9-4-3: Design Criteria
9-4-0: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
These condominium regulations are intended to provide criteria and guidelines
for "condominium construction" as defined herein. The standards include
density, parking, open space, light and air, pedestrian and vehicular traffic
circulation, and are intended to create condominium projects that are well
designed, aesthetically pleasing, compatible with the surrounding community, of
a pleasing and desirable character, and so as to harmonize with adjacent
residential use.
Although this is an amendment to the subdivision ordinance, it shall be deemed,
where applicable, an amendment to the Temple City zoning code and building
codes. The city has found that these regulations are consistent with, and
necessary to carry out, the goals and objectives of the general plan. (1960
Code; amd. Ord. 79-486)
9-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
herein ascribed to them:
   COMMUNITY APARTMENT PROJECT: Joint ownership of the land by the various
owners with an exclusive right to occupy a given dwelling unit.
   CONDOMINIUM: Joint ownership of land by the purchasers with ownership of a
defined area of air space where the dwelling unit is located as more fully
defined in the California Civil Code.
   CONDOMINIUM CONSTRUCTION: The construction of a condominium, "community
apartment project" or "stock cooperative", as defined herein. (Condominiums and
community apartment projects are required to comply with the subdivision map
act while stock cooperatives are not, unless made so by the California
department of real estate.)
   STOCK COOPERATIVE: Ownership of the land and buildings by a corporation;
tenants own shares of stock and thus are entitled to an exclusive right to
occupy a dwelling unit, or they lease a dwelling unit. (1960 Code)
9-4-2: CONSTRUCTION PROCEDURES:
Construction of condominium, stock cooperatives or community apartment projects
shall be subject to the following:
   A.   The approval of a conditional use permit, pursuant to section
 9-1F-10 of this title, shall first be required.
   B.   Condominium construction shall be permitted only in R-2 and R-3 zones
provided, however, no condominium project shall contain less than three (3)
dwelling units.
   C.   An application for a tentative and final tract map shall be submitted
concurrently for approval in accordance with established requirements. A site
plan, floor and elevation plans also shall be submitted for review and
approval.
   D.   Covenants, conditions and restrictions (CC&Rs), incorporating the
conditional use permit as nonamendable, shall be submitted to the planning
department for city attorney review and approval by the planning commission
and/or city council prior to submittal of the final tract. (1960 Code; amd.
Ord. 01-855)
9-4-3: DESIGN CRITERIA:
   A.   Open Space Requirements: "Open space", as defined in section
 9-1A-9 of this title, shall be required as follows:
 
R-2 500 square feet for each dwelling unit
R-3 500 square feet for each dwelling unit
 
(Ord. 07-916)
   B.   Fire Compliance: Compliance with the requirements of the fire
department regarding matters such as fire flow, hydrant location and driveway
width.
   C.   (Rep. by Ord. 88-630)
   D.   (Rep. by Ord. 88-630)
   E.   Parking: The following parking requirements shall be made:
      1.   For each one or two (2) bedroom unit: Two and one-half (21/2) spaces
of which two (2) may be enclosed and one-half (1/2) open;
      2.   For each three (3) bedroom or more unit: Three (3) spaces per unit,
with two (2) enclosed and one open;
      3.   Tandem parking shall be prohibited;
      4.   Underground parking may be required to have special safety
provisions as required by the fire department and building and safety
department;
      5.   No use shall be made of any parking area or access thereto, other
than for the parking of vehicles; such spaces shall be used for no other
purpose at any time. The CC&Rs shall contain such restriction.
   F.   Laundry Facilities: Separate laundry facilities shall be provided for
each unit.
   G.   Utilities: All utilities shall be placed underground.
   H.   Minimum Floor Area: The following minimum gross floor area shall be
required:
 
1 bedroom units             800 square feet
2 bedroom units             1,000 square feet
3 bedroom units             1,200 square feet
For each additional bedroom 150 square feet
 
   I.   Storage: There shall be provided for each unit at least two hundred
(200) cubic feet of storage facilities in one location, in addition to storage
requirements in the building code.
   J.   Trash And Garbage Areas: Adequate trash and garbage collection and pick
up areas shall be provided for use within one hundred fifty feet (150') of each
unit in a location or locations accessible to a public street or alley, and
enclosed on three (3) sides by a five foot (5') high masonry, brick or concrete
wall which shall be enclosed with solid decorative gates of the same height.
Such areas may be for individual dwelling units independent of others, or for
groups of dwelling units or for all such dwelling units. Areas for group use
shall be set back or otherwise protected from adjacent properties and streets.
   K.   Plumbing (Gas And Water) Shutoff Valves: Separate full way shutoff
valves shall be provided to each dwelling unit.
   L.   Utility Meters: Each utility that is controlled by and consumed within
the dwelling unit shall be separately metered in such a way that the unit owner
can be separately billed for its use.
   M.   Sound Insulation: Common wall and floor-ceiling assemblies shall be
required to conform to the sound insulation performance criteria.
   N.   Mechanical Equipment Noise Prevention: All permanent mechanical
equipment, which is determined to be a source of potential vibration or noise,
shall be shock mounted as determined by the building officials. (1960 Code)
CHAPTER 5
NEW CONSTRUCTION PARK FEES
SECTION:
9-5-0: Purpose
9-5-1: Definition
9-5-2: New Construction Fees
9-5-3: Time For Payment
9-5-4: Use Of Funds
9-5-5: Appeals
9-5-0: PURPOSE:
The city council hereby declares that the fees required to be paid by this
chapter are based upon the authority of Government Code section 66477 and the
cases of Trent v. Oxnard 114 CA3d 317; Walnut Creek 11 CA3d 1129; Palos Verdes
141CR 36; and Newark 18 CA3d 107; and upon finding that the existing potential
for the development of dwelling units, coupled with the attendant population
increase make it necessary to finance the expansion, improvement and continued
upkeep of existing parks and recreational facilities, and that this chapter is
consistent with the general plan. (1960 Code; amd. Ord. 81-506)
9-5-1: DEFINITION:
"Dwelling unit" means space within a building or structure designed or used for
occupancy as living quarters by one family. (1960 Code)
9-5-2: NEW CONSTRUCTION FEES:
In addition to any other fee prescribed in this title, every person
constructing any new dwelling unit in the city, shall pay the sum of five
hundred dollars ($500.00) per unit. (1960 Code; amd. Ord. 90-670)
9-5-3: TIME FOR PAYMENT:
The fee imposed by this chapter shall be due and payable upon application to
the city for a building permit for the construction of any such dwelling unit;
provided, however, there shall be a refund of such fee in the event the
building permit is not approved, or is not used for such construction. (1960
Code)
9-5-4: USE OF FUNDS:
A special park development fee fund is established and all fees collected
pursuant to this chapter shall be deposited therein. The funds shall be
expended solely for the acquisition or improvement of neighborhood and
community parks in general conformance with the priorities established by the
general plan. (1960 Code)
9-5-5: APPEALS:
Any person aggrieved by the computation of fees pursuant to this chapter shall
have the right to appeal to the planning commission. The appeal shall be taken
not later than thirty (30) days from the date the person is informed of the
computation of fees under this chapter. Failure to so appeal within said thirty
(30) day period shall be deemed a waiver of all rights of appeal under this
chapter. (1960 Code)
CHAPTER 6
VESTING TENTATIVE MAPS
ARTICLE A. GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
9-6A-0: Citation And Authority
9-6A-1: Purpose And Intent
9-6A-2: Consistency
9-6A-3: Definitions
9-6A-4: Application
9-6A-0: CITATION AND AUTHORITY:
This chapter is enacted pursuant to the authority granted by chapter 4.5
(commencing with section 66498.1) of division 2 of title 7 of the Government
Code of the state of California (hereinafter referred to as the vesting
tentative map statute), and may be cited as the vesting tentative map
ordinance. (1960 Code; amd. Ord. 85-580)
9-6A-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
It is the purpose of this chapter to establish procedures necessary for the
implementation of the vesting tentative map statute, and to supplement to
provisions of the subdivision map act and the subdivision ordinance. Except as
otherwise set forth in the provisions of this chapter, the provisions of the
subdivision ordinance shall apply to the vesting tentative map ordinance.
To accomplish this purpose, the regulations outlined in this chapter are
determined to be necessary for the preservation of the public health, safety
and general welfare, and for the promotion of orderly growth and development.
(1960 Code)
9-6A-2: CONSISTENCY:
No land shall be subdivided and developed pursuant to a vesting tentative map
for any purpose which is inconsistent with the general plan and any applicable
specific plan or not permitted by the zoning ordinance or other applicable
provisions of the municipal code. (1960 Code)
9-6A-3: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   A "vesting tentative map" shall mean a tentative map for a residential
subdivision, as defined in the city subdivision ordinance, that shall have
printed conspicuously on its face the words "Vesting Tentative Map" at the time
it is filed in accordance with section
 9-6B-0 of this chapter, and is thereafter processed in accordance with the
provisions hereof.
   B.   All other definitions set forth in the city subdivision ordinance are
applicable. (1960 Code)
9-6A-4: APPLICATION:
   A.   This chapter shall apply only to residential developments. Whenever a
provision of the subdivision map act, as implemented and supplemented by the
city subdivision ordinance, requires the filing of a tentative map or tentative
parcel map for a residential development, a vesting tentative map may instead
be filed, in accordance with the provisions hereof.
   B.   If a subdivider does not seek the rights conferred by the vesting
tentative map statute, the filing of a vesting tentative map shall not be a
prerequisite to any approval for any proposed subdivision, permit for
construction, or work preparatory to construction. (1960 Code)
ARTICLE B. PROCEDURES
SECTION:
9-6B-0: Filing And Processing
9-6B-1: Fees
9-6B-2: Expiration
9-6B-0: FILING AND PROCESSING:
A vesting tentative map shall be filed in the same form and have the same
contents, accompanying data and reports and shall be processed in the same
manner as set forth in the city subdivision ordinance for a tentative map
except as hereinafter provided:
   A.   At the time a vesting tentative map is filed it shall have printed
conspicuously on its face the words "Vesting Tentative Map".
   B.   At the time a vesting tentative map is filed a subdivider shall also
supply the information as specified by resolution. (1960 Code; amd. Ord. 85-
580)
9-6B-1: FEES:
Upon filing a vesting tentative map, the subdivider shall pay the fees required
by the resolution of the city council for the filing and processing of a
tentative map. (1960 Code)
9-6B-2: EXPIRATION:
The approval or conditional approval of a vesting tentative map shall expire at
the end of the same time period, and shall be subject to the same extensions,
established by the subdivision ordinance for the expiration of the approval or
conditional approval of a tentative map. (1960 Code)
ARTICLE C. DEVELOPMENT RIGHTS
SECTION:
9-6C-0: Vesting On Approval Of Vesting Tentative Map
9-6C-1: Development Inconsistent With Zoning; Conditional Approval
9-6C-2: Applications Inconsistent With Current Policies
9-6C-0: VESTING ON APPROVAL OF VESTING TENTATIVE MAP:
   A.   The approval or conditional approval of a vesting tentative map shall
confer a vested right to proceed with development in substantial compliance
with the ordinances, policies, and standards described in Government Code
section 66474.2.
However, if section 66474.2 of the Government Code is repealed, the approval or
conditional approval of a vesting tentative map shall confer a vested right to
proceed with development in substantial compliance with the ordinances,
policies, and standards in effect at the time the vesting tentative map is
approved or conditional approved.
   B.   Notwithstanding subsection A of this section, a permit, approval,
extension, or entitlement may be made conditional or denied if any of the
following are determined:
      1.   A failure to do so would place the residents of the subdivision or
the immediate community, or both, in a condition dangerous to their health or
safety, or both.
      2.   The condition or denial is required, in order to comply with state
or federal law.
   C.   The rights referred to herein shall expire if a final map is not
approved prior to the expiration of the vesting tentative map as provided in
section
9-6B-2 of this chapter. If the final map is approved, these rights shall last
for the following periods of time:
      1.   An initial time period of one year. Where several final maps are
recorded on various phases of a project covered by a single vesting tentative
map, this initial time period shall begin for each phase when the final map for
that phase is recorded.
      2.   The initial time period set forth in subsection C1 of this section
shall be automatically extended by any time used for processing a complete
application for a grading permit or for design or architectural review, if such
processing exceeds thirty (30) days, from the date a complete application is
filed.
      3.   A subdivider may apply for a one year extension at any time before
the initial time period set forth in subsection C1 of this section expires. If
the extension is denied, the subdivider may appeal that denial to the
legislative body within fifteen (15) days.
      4.   If the subdivider submits a complete application for a building
permit during the periods of time specified in subsections C1 through C3 of
this section, the rights referred to herein shall continue until the expiration
of that permit, or any extension of that permit. (1960 Code; amd. Ord. 85-580)
9-6C-1: DEVELOPMENT INCONSISTENT WITH ZONING; CONDITIONAL APPROVAL:
   A.   Whenever a subdivider files a vesting tentative map for a subdivision
whose intended development is inconsistent with the zoning ordinance in
existence at that time, that inconsistency shall be noted on the map. The city
may deny such a vesting tentative map or approve it conditioned on the
subdivider, or his or her designee, obtaining the necessary change in the
zoning ordinance to eliminate the inconsistency. If the change in the zoning
ordinance is obtained, the approved or conditionally approved vesting tentative
map shall, notwithstanding section
 9-6C-0 of this article, confer the vested right to proceed with the
development in substantial compliance with the change in the zoning ordinance
and the map, as approved.
   B.   The rights conferred by this section shall be for the time periods set
forth in subsection
9-6C-0C of this article. (1960 Code)
9-6C-2: APPLICATIONS INCONSISTENT WITH CURRENT POLICIES:
Notwithstanding any provision of this chapter, a property owner or his or her
designee may seek approvals or permits for development which depart from the
ordinances, policies, and standards described in subsection
9-6C-0A and section
9-6C-1 of this article, and local agencies may grant these approvals or issue
these permits to the extent that the departures are authorized under applicable
law. (1960 Code)
CHAPTER 7
COMMERCIAL/OFFICE CONDOMINIUMS OR INDUSTRIAL/MANUFACTURING CONDOMINIUMS
SECTION:
9-7-0: Intent And Purpose
9-7-1: Procedures
9-7-2: Requirements
9-7-3: Development Standards And Design Criteria
9-7-0: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
The intent and purpose of this chapter is to establish procedures and criteria
for commercial/office and industrial/manufacturing condominiums. (1960 Code;
amd. Ord. 92-728)
9-7-1: PROCEDURES:
   A.   Any proposed subdivision of a commercial/office or industrial/
manufacturing use for condominium purposes (either new construction or
conversion) shall require a parcel map and shall be consistent with the state
subdivision map act as contained in the Government Code.
   B.   Commercial/office and industrial/manufacturing subdivision applications
shall be processed in accordance with the procedures contained in chapter 2 of
this title. (1960 Code)
9-7-2: REQUIREMENTS:
Any commercial/office or industrial/manufacturing subdivision (either new
construction or conversion) shall meet the following minimum requirements:
   A.   Conditions, covenants and restrictions (CC&Rs) shall be provided to
ensure the continuous maintenance of the premises. A copy of the proposed
conditions, covenants and restrictions shall be reviewed and approved by the
city attorney prior to submittal for the final map. The CC&Rs shall include the
following provisions:
      1.   The governmental entity with primary jurisdiction over commercial/
office or industrial/manufacturing condominium projects is the city of Temple
City. The association shall abide by the codes and/or ordinances of the primary
jurisdiction. No alterations to the interior or exterior of individual units or
to the common area shall be commenced without appropriate approvals and permits
from the city of Temple City.
      2.   The common drive shall be posted and maintained as a "Fire Lane/No
Parking". The city of Temple City shall have the ability to cite violations of
parking regulations.
      3.   Parking for the project shall be based upon the proposed uses of the
individual units. The owner and occupant of each unit should be aware that the
overall number of parking spaces available in the project may limit the
utilization of individual units.
      4.   The city of Temple City shall have the right and power to enforce
the common area use and maintenance covenant of the association, provided
however, that no duty to enforce said use and maintenance covenants shall be
deemed to arise by virtue of this provision of any other action of the city.
Any provisions of this chapter notwithstanding, the city may, by an action at
law or in equity, enforce all provisions relating to the property maintenance,
repair and use of common area.
      5.   Conversion of existing projects shall follow the procedures and
notification requirements contained in section
9-3-2 of this title.
      6.   In addition to the above requirements, no application for a
commercial/office or industrial/manufacturing condominium project shall be
accepted for any purpose unless the application includes the following:
         a.   A development plan of the project including:
            (1)   The location, height, gross floor area, and proposed uses for
each existing structure to remain and for each proposed new structure;
            (2)   The location and type of surfacing for all driveway,
pedestrianways, vehicle parking areas, curb cuts and open storage area;
            (3)   The location, height, and type of materials for walls, fences
and trash enclosures;
            (4)   The location of all landscaped areas, the type of
landscaping;
            (5)   The location and size of the parking facilities to be used in
conjunction with each condominium unit;
            (6)   The location, type and size of all drainage pipes and
structures depicted or described to the nearest public drain or watercourse;
            (7)   The location and type of the nearest fire hydrants;
            (8)   The location, type and size of all on site and adjacent
street overhead utility lines;
            (9)   A lighting plan of the project;
            (10)   Existing and proposed exterior elevations;
            (11)   The location of and provisions for any unique natural and/or
vegetative site features. (1960 Code)
9-7-3: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS AND DESIGN CRITERIA:
   A.   Commercial/Office Condominiums: Any commercial/office subdivision
(either new construction or conversion) shall comply with the following
development standards and criteria:
      1.   Condominium projects shall be permitted in all C and M zones.
      2.   Commercial/office condominium projects shall be restricted to
buildings with at least ten thousand (10,000) square feet of floor area.
      3.   The minimum unit size for all units shall be one thousand (1,000)
square feet.
      4.   Condominium projects shall be in compliance with all development
criteria contained in the applicable zoning classification and shall be in
compliance with the parking requirements based upon use.
      5.   All commercial/office subdivisions shall be subject to a conditional
use permit in accordance with sections
9-1F-0 through
9-1F-43 of this title.
   B.   Industrial/Manufacturing Condominiums: Any industrial/manufacturing
subdivision (either new construction or conversion) shall comply with the
following development standards and criteria:
      1.   Condominium projects shall be permitted in all M zones.
      2.   Industrial and manufacturing condominium projects shall be
restricted to manufacturing and industrial complexes with at least ten thousand
(10,000) square feet of floor area.
      3.   The minimum unit size for all units within a manufacturing or
industrial complex shall be two thousand (2,000) square feet.
      4.   Condominium projects shall be in compliance with all development
criteria contained in applicable zoning classification and shall be in
compliance with the parking requirements based upon use.
      5.   All industrial or manufacturing subdivisions shall be subject to a
conditional use permit in accordance with sections
9-1F-0 through
9-1F-43 of this title.
   C.   Parking Structure Condominiums Or Common Ownership: Condominium or
common ownership projects for parking garages and parking structures, including
underground or subterranean structures, shall comply with all development
criteria contained in the applicable zoning classification, or if the
classification is silent, then such criteria as proscribed by the city building
official and community development director. (Ord. 13-967)
CODE RENUMBERED - OLD TO NEW REFERENCE
 
Old Sec. # New Sec. # Old Sec. # New Sec. # Old Sec. #     New Sec. #
1100       1-1-0      2100       2-1-0      2503           2-5-3
1101       1-1-1      2101       2-1-1      2504           2-5-4
1102       1-1-2      2102       2-1-2      2505           2-5-5
1103       1-1-3      2103       2-1-3      2506           2-5-6
1104       1-1-4      2104       2-1-4      2507           2-5-7
1105       1-1-5      2105       2-1-5      2508           2-5-8
1106       1-1-6      2106       2-1-6      2509           2-5-9
1107       1-1-7      2107       2-1-7      2510           2-5-10
1108       1-1-8      2200       2-2-0      2511           2-5-11
1109       1-1-9      2201       2-2-1      2512           2-5-12
1200       1-2-0      2202       2-2-2      2513           2-5-13
1200A      1-2-0-1    2203       2-2-3      2514           2-5-14
1200B      1-2-0-2    2204       2-2-4      2515           2-5-15
1200C      1-2-0-3    2205       2-2-5      2516           2-5-16
1201       1-2-1      2206       2-2-6      2517           2-5-17
1202       1-2-2      2207       2-2-7      2550           2-5.5-0
1203       1-2-3      2208       2-2-8      2560           2-5.5-1
1204       1-2-4      2209       2-2-9      2570           2-5.5-2
1205       1-2-5      2210       2-2-10     2600           2-6A-0
1206       1-2-6      2300       2-3A-0     2601           2-6A-1
1300       1-3-0      2301       2-3A-1     2602           2-6A-2
1301       1-3-1      2302       2-3A-2     2603           2-6A-3
1302       1-3-2      2303       2-3A-3     2604           2-6A-4
1303       1-3-3      2304       2-3A-4     2605           2-6A-5
1304       1-3-4      2320       2-3B-0     2606           2-6A-6
1305       1-3-5      2321       2-3B-1     2607           2-6A-7
1306       1-3-6      2322       2-3B-2     2620           2-6B-0
1307       1-3-7      2323       2-3B-3     2621           2-6B-1
1308       1-3-8      2340       2-3C-0     2630           2-6C-0
1309       1-3-9      2341       2-3C-1     2631           2-6C-1
1310       1-3-10     2342       2-3C-2     2632           2-6C-2
1311       1-3-11     2343       2-3C-3     2633           2-6C-3
1312       1-3-12     2344       2-3C-4     2634           2-6C-4
1313       1-3-13     2345       2-3C-5     2635           2-6C-5
1314       1-3-14     2346       2-3C-6     2636           2-6C-6
1315       1-3-15     2347       2-3C-7     2637           2-6C-7
1400       1-4-0      2348       2-3C-8     2638           2-6C-8
1401       1-4-1      2349       2-3C-9     2639           2-6C-9
1402       1-4-2      2400       2-4-0      2640           2-6C-10
1403       1-4-3      2401       2-4-1      2641           2-6C-11
1404       1-4-4      2402       2-4-2      2642           2-6C-12
1405       1-4-5      2403       2-4-3      Rep. by 93-747 2-6D
1406       1-4-6      2404       2-4-4      2680           2-6E-0
1407       1-4-7      2405       2-4-5      2681           2-6E-1
1408       1-4-8      2406       2-4-6      2682           2-6E-2
1409       1-4-9      2500       2-5-0      2683           2-6E-3
1410       1-4-10     2501       2-5-1      2684           2-6E-4
1411       1-4-11     2502       2-5-2      2685           2-6E-5
 
 
 
Old Sec. # New Sec. #     Old Sec. # New Sec. # Old Sec. # New Sec. #
2686       2-6E-6         3119       3-1-19     3331       3-3A-31
2687       2-6E-7         3200       3-2A-0     3332       3-3A-32
2690       2-6F-0         3200.1     3-2A-1     3333       3-3A-33
2700       2-7-0          3201       3-2A-2     3334       3-3A-34
2701       2-7-1          3202       3-2A-3     3335       3-3A-35
2702       2-7-2          3203       3-2A-4     3336       3-3A-36
2703       2-7-3          3204       3-2A-5     3337       3-3A-37
2704       2-7-4          3205       3-2A-6     3338       3-3A-38
2705       2-7-5          3206       3-2A-7     3338.1     3-3A-38-1
2706       2-7-6          3207       3-2A-8     3338.2     3-3A-38-2
2707       2-7-7          3208       3-2A-9     3338.3     3-3A-38-3
2708       2-7-8          3209       3-2A-10    3338.4     3-3A-38-4
2709       2-7-9          3220       3-2B-0     3339       3-3A-50
2710       2-7-10         3221       3-2B-1     3339.1     3-3A-50-1
2711       2-7-11         3222       3-2B-2     3339.2     3-3A-50-2
2712       2-7-12         3223       3-2B-3     3339.3     3-3A-50-3
2713       2-7-13         3224       3-2B-4     3339.4     3-3A-50-4
2800       2-8-0          3225       3-2C-0     3339.5     3-3A-50-5
2900       2-9-0          3226       3-2C-1     3339.6     3-3A-50-6
2950       2-10-0         3227       3-2C-2     3340       3-3B-0
2951       2-10-1         3228       3-2C-3     3341       3-3B-1
Ord. 13    -977 adds new: 3229       3-2C-4     3350       3-3B-10
2952       2-11-0         3230       3-2C-5     3351       3-3B-11
2953       2-11-1         3231       3-2C-6     3352       3-3B-12
2954       2-11-2         3232       3-2C-7     3353       3-3B-13
2955       2-11-3         3233       3-2C-8     3354       3-3B-14
2956       2-11-4         3300       3-3A-0     3360       3-3C-0
2957       2-11-5         3301       3-3A-1     3361       3-3C-1
2958       2-11-6         3302       3-3A-2     3362       3-3C-2
3100       3-1-0          3310       3-3A-10    3363       3-3C-3
3101       3-1-1          3311       3-3A-11    3400       3-4A-0
3102       3-1-2          3312       3-3A-12    3401       3-4A-1
3103       3-1-3          3313       3-3A-13    3402       3-4A-2
3104       3-1-4          3314       3-3A-14    3403       3-4A-3
3105       3-1-5          3315       3-3A-15    3404       3-4A-4
3106       3-1-6          3316       3-3A-16    3405       3-4A-5
3107       3-1-7          3317       3-3A-17    3406       3-4A-6
3108       3-1-8          3320       3-3A-20    3407       3-4A-7
3109       3-1-9          3321       3-3A-21    3408       3-4A-8
3110       3-1-10         3322       3-3A-22    3409       3-4A-9
3111       3-1-11         3323       3-3A-23    3410       3-4A-10
3112       3-1-12         3324       3-3A-24    3411       3-4A-11
3113       3-1-13         3325       3-3A-25    3412       3-4A-12
3114       3-1-14         3326       3-3A-26    3413       3-4A-13
3115       3-1-15         3327       3-3A-27    3414       3-4A-14
3116       3-1-16         3328       3-3A-28    3415       3-4A-15
3117       3-1-17         3329       3-3A-29    3420       3-4B-0
3118       3-1-18         3330       3-3A-30    3421       3-4B-1
 
 
 
Old Sec. # New Sec. #     Old Sec. # New Sec. # Old Sec. # New Sec. #
3422       3-4B-2         3540       3-5C-0     3607       3-6-7
3423       3-4B-3         3541       3-5C-1     3608       3-6-8
3424       3-4B-4         3542       3-5C-2     3609       3-6-9
3425       3-4B-5         3543       3-5C-3     3610       3-6-10
3426       3-4B-6         3544       3-5C-4     3700       3-7-0
3427       3-4B-7         3545       3-5C-5     3701       3-7-1
3428       3-4B-8         3546       3-5C-6     3702       3-7-2
3429       3-4B-9         3547       3-5C-7     3703       3-7-3
3430       3-4B-10        3548       3-5C-8     3704       3-7-4
3431       3-4B-11        3549       3-5C-9     3705       3-7-5
3432       3-4B-12        3550       3-5C-10    3706       3-7-6
3440       3-4C-0         3551       3-5C-11    3707       3-7-7
3441       3-4C-1         3552       3-5C-12    3708       3-7-8
3442       3-4C-2         3553       3-5C-13    4100       4-1A-0
3443       3-4C-3         3554       3-5C-14    4101       4-1A-1
3444       3-4C-4         3555       3-5C-15    4102       4-1A-2
3445       3-4C-5         3556       3-5C-16    4103       4-1A-3
3446       3-4C-6         3557       3-5C-17    4104       4-1A-4
3447       3-4C-7         3560       3-5D-0     4105       4-1A-5
3448       3-4C-8         3561       3-5D-1     4106       4-1A-6
Ord. 13    -983 adds new: 3562       3-5D-2     4107       4-1A-7
3450       3-4D-0         3563       3-5D-3     4108       4-1A-8
3451       3-4D-1         3564       3-5D-4     4109       4-1A-9
3452       3-4D-2         3565       3-5D-5     4110       4-1A-10
3453       3-4D-3         3566       3-5D-6     4111       4-1A-11
3454       3-4D-4         3567       3-5D-7     4112       4-1A-12
3455       3-4D-5         3568       3-5D-8     4113       4-1A-13
3456       3-4D-6         3569       3-5D-9     4114       4-1A-14
3457       3-4D-7         3570       3-5D-10    4115       4-1A-15
3458       3-4D-8         3580       3-5E-0     4120       4-1B-0
3459       3-4D-9         3581       3-5E-1     4121       4-1B-1
3460       3-4D-10        3582       3-5E-2     4122       4-1B-2
3461       3-4D-11        3583       3-5E-3     4123       4-1B-3
3462       3-4D-12        3584       3-5E-4     4130       4-1C-0
3470       3-4E-0         3585       3-5E-5     4131       4-1C-1
3471       3-4E-1         3586       3-5E-6     4132       4-1C-2
3500       3-5A-0         3587       3-5E-7     4133       4-1C-3
3520       3-5B-0         3588       3-5E-8     4140       4-1D-0
3521       3-5B-1         3589       3-5E-9     4141       4-1D-1
3522       3-5B-2         3590       3-5E-10    4142       4-1D-2
3523       3-5B-3         3591       3-5E-11    4143       4-1D-3
3524       3-5B-4         3600       3-6-0      4144       4-1D-4
3525       3-5B-5         3601       3-6-1      4145       4-1D-5
3526       3-5B-6         3602       3-6-2      4150       4-1E-0
3527       3-5B-7         3603       3-6-3      4151       4-1E-1
3528       3-5B-8         3604       3-6-4      4152       4-1E-2
3529       3-5B-9         3605       3-6-5      4153       4-1E-3
3530       3-5B-10        3606       3-6-6      4154       4-1E-4
 
 
 
Old Sec. # New Sec. # Old Sec. # New Sec. # Old Sec. # New Sec. #
4155       4-1E-5     4207       4-2A-7     4250.4     4-2E-3
4156       4-1E-6     4208       4-2A-8     4250.5     4-2E-4
4157       4-1E-7     4209       4-2A-9     4250.6     4-2E-5
4158       4-1E-8     4209.1     4-2A-10    4250.7     4-2E-6
4159       4-1E-9     4210       4-2A-11    4250.8     4-2E-7
4160       4-1F-0     4211       4-2A-12    4250.9     4-2E-8
4161       4-1F-1     4212       4-2A-13    4250.10    4-2E-9
4162       4-1F-2     4213       4-2A-14    4250.11    4-2E-10
4170       4-1G-0     4214       4-2A-15    4251       4-2E-11
4171       4-1G-1     4215       4-2A-16    4252       4-2E-12
4172       4-1G-2     4220       4-2B-0     4253       4-2E-13
4173       4-1G-3     4221       4-2B-1     4254       4-2E-14
4174       4-1G-4     4222       4-2B-2     4255       4-2E-15
4175       4-1G-5     4223       4-2B-3     4256       4-2E-16
4176       4-1G-6     4224       4-2B-4     4256.1     4-2E-17
4177       4-1G-7     4225       4-2B-5     4257       4-2E-18
4178       4-1G-8     4230       4-2C-0     4257.1     4-2E-19
4180       4-1H-0     4230.1     4-2C-1     4258       4-2E-20
4180.1     4-1H-1     4231       4-2C-2     4258.1     4-2E-21
4181       4-1I-0     4232       4-2C-3     4258.2     4-2E-22
4181.1     4-1I-0-1   4233       4-2C-10    4259       4-2E-23
4181.2     4-1I-0-2   4234       4-2C-11    4260       4-2F-0
4181.3     4-1I-0-3   4235       4-2C-12    4261       4-2F-1
4181.4     4-1I-0-4   4235.1     4-2C-12-1  4262       4-2F-2
4181.5     4-1I-0-5   4235.2     4-2C-12-2  4263       4-2F-3
4181.6     4-1I-0-6   4235.3     4-2C-12-3  4270       4-2G-0
4181.7     4-1I-0-7   4235.4     4-2C-12-4  4271       4-2G-1
4181.8     4-1I-0-8   4236       4-2C-13    4272       4-2G-2
4181.9     4-1I-0-9   4236.1     4-2C-13-1  4273       4-2G-3
4181.10    4-1I-0-10  4237       4-2C-14    4274       4-2G-4
4181.11    4-1I-0-11  4238       4-2C-15    4280       4-2H-0
4181.12    4-1I-0-12  4238.1     4-2C-15-1  4281       4-2H-1
4181.13    4-1I-0-13  4239       4-2C-16    4282       4-2H-2
4181.14    4-1I-0-14  4240       4-2C-17    4290       4-2I-0
4181.15    4-1I-0-15  4241       4-2C-18    4291       4-2I-1
4190       4-1I-1     4242       4-2C-19    4292       4-2I-2
4190.1     4-1I-1-1   4242.1     4-2C-19-1  4293       4-2I-3
4190.2     4-1I-1-2   4242.2     4-2C-19-2  4294       4-2I-4
4190.3     4-1I-1-3   4243       4-2C-20    4295       4-2I-5
4190.4     4-1I-1-4   4244       4-2C-21    4296       4-2I-6
4190.5     4-1I-1-5   4245       4-2C-30    4297       4-2I-7
4200       4-2A-0     4246       4-2C-31    4298       4-2I-8
4201       4-2A-1     4247       4-2C-32    4299       4-2I-9
4202       4-2A-2     4248       4-2C-33    4299.5     4-2I-10
4203       4-2A-3     4250       4-2D-0     4300       4-3-0
4204       4-2A-4     4250.1     4-2E-0     4301       4-3-1
4205       4-2A-5     4250.2     4-2E-1     4302       4-3-2
4206       4-2A-6     4250.3     4-2E-2     4303       4-3-3
 
 
 
Old Sec. # New Sec. # Old Sec. # New Sec. # Old Sec. # New Sec. #
4304       4-3-4      4630       4-6B-10    4821       4-8-21
4305       4-3-5      4631       4-6B-11    4900       4-9-0
4306       4-3-6      4632       4-6B-12    4901       4-9-1
4307       4-3-7      4633       4-6B-13    4902       4-9-2
4308       4-3-8      4634       4-6B-14    4903       4-9-3
4309       4-3-9      4635       4-6B-15    4904       4-9-4
4310       4-3-10     4636       4-6B-16    4905       4-9-5
4400       4-4-0      4637       4-6B-17    4906       4-9-6
4401       4-4-1      4638       4-6B-18    4907       4-9-7
4402       4-4-2      4639       4-6B-19    4908       4-9-8
4403       4-4-3      4640       4-6B-20    4909       4-9-9
4404       4-4-4      4641       4-6B-21    4910       4-9-10
4405       4-4-5      4700       4-7-0      4911       4-9-11
4406       4-4-6      4701       4-7-1      4912       4-9-12
4500       4-5-0      4702       4-7-2      5000       4-10-0
4501       4-5-1      4703       4-7-3      5001       4-10-1
4502       4-5-2      4704       4-7-4      5002       4-10-2
4503       4-5-3      4705       4-7-5      5003       4-10-3
4504       4-5-4      4800       4-8-0      5010       4-11-0
4505       4-5-5      4801       4-8-1      5011       4-11-1
4506       4-5-6      4802       4-8-2      5012       4-11-2
4507       4-5-7      4803       4-8-3      5013       4-11-3
4508       4-5-8      4804       4-8-4      5014       4-11-4
4509       4-5-9      4805       4-8-5      5015       4-11-5
4510       4-5-10     4806       4-8-6      5016       4-11-6
4511       4-5-11     4807       4-8-7      5017       4-11-7
4512       4-5-12     4808       4-8-8      5018       4-11-8
4600       4-6A-0     4809       4-8-9      5019       4-11-9
4601       4-6A-1     4810       4-8-10     5020       4-11-10
4602       4-6A-2     4810.1     4-8-10-1   5021       4-11-11
4603       4-6A-3     4810.2     4-8-10-2   5022       4-11-12
4604       4-6A-4     4810.3     4-8-10-3   5023       4-11-13
4605       4-6A-5     4810.4     4-8-10-4   5100       5-1A-0
4606       4-6A-6     4810.5     4-8-10-5   5101       5-1A-1
4607       4-6A-7     4810.6     4-8-10-6   5102       5-1A-2
4608       4-6A-8     4810.7     4-8-10-7   5103       5-1A-3
4609       4-6A-9     4810.8     4-8-10-8   5104       5-1A-4
4610       4-6A-10    4810.9     4-8-10-9   5105       5-1A-5
4620       4-6B-0     4811       4-8-11     5106       5-1A-6
4621       4-6B-1     4812       4-8-12     5107       5-1A-7
4622       4-6B-2     4813       4-8-13     5108       5-1A-8
4623       4-6B-3     4814       4-8-14     5109       5-1A-9
4624       4-6B-4     4815       4-8-15     5110       5-1A-10
4625       4-6B-5     4816       4-8-16     5111       5-1A-11
4626       4-6B-6     4817       4-8-17     5112       5-1A-12
4627       4-6B-7     4818       4-8-18     5113       5-1A-13
4628       4-6B-8     4819       4-8-19     5120       5-1B-0
4629       4-6B-9     4820       4-8-20     5121       5-1B-1
 
 
 
Old Sec. # New Sec. # Old Sec. # New Sec. # Old Sec. # New Sec. #
5122       5-1B-2     5245       5-2C-5     5352       5-3D-2
5123       5-1B-3     5246       5-2C-6     5353       5-3D-3
5124       5-1B-4     5250       5-2D-0     5354       5-3D-4
5125       5-1B-5     5251       5-2D-1     5355       5-3D-5
5126       5-1B-6     5252       5-2D-2     5356       5-3D-6
5127       5-1B-7     5253       5-2D-3     5357       5-3D-7
5128       5-1B-8     5254       5-2D-4     5358       5-3D-8
5129       5-1B-9     5255       5-2D-5     5359       5-3D-9
5130       5-1B-10    5256       5-2D-6     5360       5-3D-10
5131       5-1B-11    5257       5-2D-7     5361       5-3D-11
5132       5-1B-12    5258       5-2D-8     5362       5-3D-12
5133       5-1B-13    5259       5-2D-9     5363       5-3D-13
5134       5-1B-14    5260       5-2D-10    5364       5-3D-14
5135       5-1B-15    5261       5-2D-11    5370       5-3E-0
5136       5-1B-16    5262       5-2D-12    5371       5-3E-1
5137       5-1B-17    5263       5-2D-13    5372       5-3E-2
5138       5-1B-18    5264       5-2D-14    5373       5-3E-3
5139       5-1B-19    5265       5-2D-15    6100       6-1A-0
5139.1     5-1B-20    5266       5-2D-16    6101       6-1A-1
5139.2     5-1B-21    5300       5-3A-0     6102       6-1A-2
5139.3     5-1B-22    5301       5-3A-1     6103       6-1A-3
5139.4     5-1B-23    5302       5-3A-2     6120       6-1B-0
5140       5-1C-0     5303       5-3A-3     6121       6-1B-1
5141       5-1C-1     5304       5-3A-4     6122       6-1B-2
5142       5-1C-2     5305       5-3A-5     6123       6-1B-3
5200       5-2A-0     5306       5-3A-6     6124       6-1B-4
5201       5-2A-1     5307       5-3A-7     6125       6-1B-5
5202       5-2A-2     5308       5-3A-8     6126       6-1B-6
5203       5-2A-3     5320       5-3B-0     6130       6-1B-20
5204       5-2A-4     5321       5-3B-1     6131       6-1B-21
5205       5-2A-5     5322       5-3B-2     6132       6-1B-22
5206       5-2A-6     5323       5-3B-3     6133       6-1B-23
5207       5-2A-7     5324       5-3B-4     6134       6-1B-24
5208       5-2A-8     5325       5-3B-5     6135       6-1B-25
5209       5-2A-9     5330       5-3C-0     6136       6-1B-26
5220       5-2B-0     5331       5-3C-1     6200       6-2A-0
5221       5-2B-1     5332       5-3C-2     6201       6-2A-1
5222       5-2B-2     5333       5-3C-3     6202       6-2A-2
5223       5-2B-3     5334       5-3C-4     6203       6-2A-3
5224       5-2B-4     5335       5-3C-5     6204       6-2A-4
5225       5-2B-5     5336       5-3C-6     6205       6-2A-5
5226       5-2B-6     5337       5-3C-7     6210       6-2B-0
5227       5-2B-7     5338       5-3C-8     6211       6-2B-1
5240       5-2C-0     5339       5-3C-9     6212       6-2B-2
5241       5-2C-1     5340       5-3C-10    6213       6-2B-3
5242       5-2C-2     5341       5-3C-11    6214       6-2B-4
5243       5-2C-3     5350       5-3D-0     6215       6-2B-5
5244       5-2C-4     5351       5-3D-1     6216       6-2B-6
 
 
 
Old Sec. # New Sec. # Old Sec. # New Sec. #             Old Sec. # New Sec. #
6217       6-2B-7     6346       6-3C-6                 7102       7-1-2
6218       6-2B-8     6347       6-3C-7                 7103       7-1-3
6219       6-2B-9     6348       6-3C-8                 7104       7-1-4
6220       6-2B-10    6349       6-3C-9                 7105       7-1-5
6221       6-2B-11    6350       6-3C-10                7106       7-1-6
6222       6-2B-12    6351       6-3C-11                7107       7-1-7
6230       6-2C-0     6352       6-3C-12                7108       7-1-8
6231       6-2C-1     6353       6-3C-13                7200       7-2-0
6232       6-2C-2     6354       6-3C-14                7201       7-2-1
6233       6-2C-3     6355       6-3C-15                7202       7-2-2
6234       6-2C-4     6356       6-3C-16                7203       7-2-3
6235       6-2C-5     6357       6-3C-17                7204       7-2-4
6236       6-2C-6     6358       6-3C-18                7205       7-2-5
6237       6-2C-7     6359       6-3C-19                7206       7-2-6
6238       6-2C-8     6360       6-3C-20                7207       7-2-7
6239       6-2C-9     6361       6-3C-21                7208       7-2-8
6240       6-2C-10    6362       6-3C-22                7300       7-3-0
6241       6-2C-11    6363       6-3C-23                7301       7-3-1
6242       6-2C-12    6364       6-3C-24                7302       7-3-2
6250       6-2D-0     6365       6-3C-25                7303       7-3-3
6251       6-2D-1     6366       6-3C-26                7304       7-3-4
6251.1     6-2D-2     6367       6-3C-27                7305       7-3-5
6252       6-2D-3     6368       6-3C-28                7306       7-3-6
6300       6-3A-0     6369       6-3C-29                7307       7-3-7
6301       6-3A-1     6370       6-3C-30                7308       7-3-8
6302       6-3A-2     6371       6-3C-31                7400       7-4-0
6303       6-3A-3     6372       6-3C-32                7401       7-4-1
6304       6-3A-4     6373       6-3C-33                7402       7-4-2
6305       6-3A-5     6374       6-3C-34                7403       7-4-3
6306       6-3A-6     6375       6-3C-35                7404       7-4-4
6307       6-3A-7     6376       6-3C-36                7405       7-4-5
6308       6-3A-8     6377       6-3C-37                7406       7-4-6
6309       6-3A-9     6378       6-3C-38                7407       7-4-7
6310       6-3A-10    6379       6-3C-39                7408       7-4-8
6311       6-3A-11    6380       6-3C-40                7500       7-5-0
6320       6-3B-0     6381       6-3C-41                7501       7-5-1
6321       6-3B-1     6382       6-3C-42                7502       7-5-2
6322       6-3B-2     6383       6-3C-43                7503       7-5-3
6323       6-3B-3     6384       6-3C-44                7504       7-5-4
6324       6-3B-4     6385       6-3C-45                7505       7-5-5
6325       6-3B-5     6386       6-3C-46                7506       7-5-6
6326       6-3B-6     6387       6-3C-47                7507       7-5-7
6340       6-3C-0     6388       6-3C-48                7508       7-5-8
6341       6-3C-1     6389       6-3C-49                7600       7-6-0
6342       6-3C-2     6390       6-3C-50                7601       7-6-1
6343       6-3C-3     Ord. 1     3-985 replaces title 7 7602       7-6-2
6344       6-3C-4     7100       7-1-0                  7603       7-6-3
6345       6-3C-5     7101       7-1-1                  7604       7-6-4
 
 
 
Old Sec. # New Sec. # Old Sec. # New Sec. #     Old Sec. # New Sec. #
7605       7-6-5      9146       9-1B-6         9205       9-1F-21
7606       7-6-6      9147       9-1B-7         9206       9-1F-22
7607       7-6-7      9147.1     9-1B-8         9207       9-1F-23
7608       7-6-8      9148       9-1B-9         9208       9-1F-24
7700       7-7-0      9148.1     9-1B-10        9209       9-1F-25
7701       7-7-1      9148.2     9-1B-11        9210       9-1F-26
7702       7-7-2      9148.3     9-1B-12        9210.1     9-1F-27
7703       7-7-3      9148.4     9-1B-13        9211       9-1F-28
7704       7-7-4      9148.5     9-1B-14        9212       9-1F-29
7705       7-7-5      9148.6     9-1B-15        9213       9-1F-30
7706       7-7-6      9148.7     9-1B-16        9230       9-1F-40
7707       7-7-7      9148.8     9-1B-17        9231       9-1F-41
7708       7-7-8      9148.9     9-1B-18        9232       9-1F-42
8100       8-1-0      9150       9-1C-0         9240       9-1F-43
8101       8-1-1      9151       9-1C-1         9250       9-1G-0
8102       8-1-2      9152       9-1C-2         9251       9-1G-1
8103       8-1-3      9160       9-1D-0         9252       9-1G-2
8104       8-1-4      9161       9-1D-1         9253       9-1G-3
8105       8-1-5      9162       9-1D-2         9254       9-1G-4
8106       8-1-6      9163       9-1D-3         9255       9-1G-5
8200       8-2-0      9164       9-1D-4         9256       9-1G-6
8201       8-2-1      9165       9-1D-5         9270       9-1H-0
8202       8-2-2      9166       9-1D-6         9271       9-1H-1
8203       8-2-3      9167       9-1D-7         9272       9-1H-2
8204       8-2-4      9168       9-1D-8         9273       9-1H-3
8300       8-3-0      9180       9-1E-0         9274       9-1H-4
8301       8-3-1      9181       9-1E-1         9275       9-1H-5
8302       8-3-2      9182       9-1E-2         9276       9-1H-6
8303       Deleted    9183       9-1E-3         9277       9-1H-7
8400       8-4-0      9184       9-1E-4         9278       9-1H-8
8401       8-4-1      9185       9-1E-5         9279       9-1H-9
8402       8-4-2      9186       9-1E-6         9280       9-1I-0
9100       9-1A-0     9187       9-1E-7         9280.1     9-1I-1
9101       9-1A-1     9188       9-1E-20        9280.2     9-1I-2
9102       9-1A-2     9189       9-1E-21        9281       9-1I-3
9103       9-1A-3     9190       9-1E-22        9281.1     9-1I-4
9104       9-1A-4     9191       9-1E-23        9281.2     9-1I-5
9105       9-1A-5     9192       9-1E-24        9282       9-1I-6
9106       9-1A-6     9193       9-1E-25        9283       9-1I-7
9107       9-1A-7     Ord. 13    -979 adds new: 9283.1     9-1I-8
9108       9-1A-8     9194       9-1E-30        9290       9-1J-0
9109       9-1A-9     9195       9-1E-31        9290.5     9-1J-1
9140       9-1B-0     9196       9-1E-32        9291       9-1J-2
9141       9-1B-1     9200       9-1F-0         9292       9-1J-3
9142       9-1B-2     9201       9-1F-1         9293       9-1J-4
9143       9-1B-3     9202       9-1F-10        9294       9-1J-5
9144       9-1B-4     9203       9-1F-11        9295       9-1J-6
9145       9-1B-5     9204       9-1F-20        9296       9-1J-7
 
 
Old Sec. #       New Sec. # Old Sec. # New Sec. # Old Sec. #        New Sec. #
9296.1           9-1J-8     9366       9-1M-37    9448              9-1R.1-1
9296.2           9-1J-9     9370       9-1N-0     9449              9-1R.1-2
9296.3           9-1J-10    9371       9-1N-1     Ord. 14-981 adds:  
9297             9-1J-11    9372       9-1N-2     9449.1            9-1R.2-1
9298             9-1J-12    9373       9-1N-3     9449.2            9-1R.2-2
9299             9-1J-13    9374       9-1N-4     9449.3            9-1R.2-3
9299.1           9-1J-14    9375       9-1N-20    9449.4            9-1R.2-4
9310             9-1K-0     9376       9-1N-21    9450              9-1S-0
9311             9-1K-1     9377       9-1N-22    9451              9-1S-1
9312             9-1K-2     9378       9-1N-23    Ord. 13-975 adds   
                                                  new:
9313             9-1K-3     9380       9-1N-30    9452              9-1T-0
9314             9-1K-4     9381       9-1N-31    9453              9-1T-1
9315             9-1K-5     9382       9-1N-32    Ord. 13-972 adds   
                                                  new:
9316             9-1K-6     9383       9-1N-33    9454              9-1T-2
9317             9-1K-7     9384       9-1N-34    9454.1            9-1T-2-1
9318             9-1K-8     9390       9-1N-40    9454.2            9-1T-2-2
9319             9-1K-9     9391       9-1N-41    9455              9-1T-3
9320             9-1L-0     9392       9-1N-42    9455.1            9-1T-3-1
9321             9-1L-1     9393       9-1N-43    9455.2            9-1T-3-2
9322             9-1L-2     9394       9-1N-44    9455.3            9-1T-3-3
9323             9-1L-3     9400       9-1N-50    9455.4            9-1T-3-4
9324             9-1L-4     9410       9-1O-0     9455.5            9-1T-3-5
9325             9-1L-5     9411       9-1O-1     9455.6            9-1T-3-6
9326             9-1L-6     9411.1     9-1O-2     9455.7            9-1T-3-7
9327             9-1L-7     9412       9-1O-3     9455.8            9-1T-3-8
9328             9-1L-8     9413       9-1O-4     9455.9            9-1T-3-9
9329             9-1L-9     9414       9-1O-5     9455.10           9-1T-3-10
9330             9-1M-0     9420       9-1O-20    9455.11           9-1T-3-11
9331             9-1M-10    9421       9-1O-21    9455.12           9-1T-3-12
9332             9-1M-11    9422       9-1O-22    9455.13           9-1T-3-13
9333             9-1M-12    9423       9-1O-23    9455.14           9-1T-3-14
9334             9-1M-13    9430       9-1P-0     9455.15           9-1T-3-15
9335             9-1M-14    9431       9-1P-1     9455.16           9-1T-3-16
9336             9-1M-15    9432       9-1P-2     9455.17           9-1T-3-17
9350             9-1M-20    9433       9-1P-3     9455.18           9-1T-3-18
9351             9-1M-21    9434       9-1P-4     9455.19           9-1T-3-19
9352             9-1M-22    9435       9-1Q-0     9455.20           9-1T-3-20
9353             9-1M-23    9436       9-1Q-1     9455.21           9-1T-3-21
9354             9-1M-24    9437       9-1Q-2     9455.22           9-1T-3-22
9355             9-1M-25    9438       9-1Q-3     9455.23           9-1T-3-23
9360             9-1M-30    9440       9-1R-0     9455.24           9-1T-3-24
9361             9-1M-31    9441       9-1R-1     9455.25           9-1T-3-25
9362             9-1M-32    9442       9-1R-2     9455.26           9-1T-3-26
Ord. 13-972 adds            9443       9-1R-3     9455.27           9-1T-3-27
new:
9362.1           9-1M-33    9444       9-1R-4     9455.28           9-1T-3-28
9363             9-1M-34    9445       9-1R-5     9455.29           9-1T-3-29
9364             9-1M-35    9446       9-1R-6     9456              9-1T-4
9365             9-1M-36    9447       9-1R.1-0   9457              9-1T-5
 
 
Old Sec. #            New Sec. #
9458                  9-1T-6
9459                  9-1T-7
9460                  9-1U-0
9461                  9-1U-1
9462                  9-1U-2
9463                  9-1U-3
9464                  9-1U-4
Ord. 13-972 adds new:
9470                  9-1V-0
9470.1                9-1V-1
9470.2                9-1V-2
9470.3                9-1V-3
9470.4                9-1V-4
9470.5                9-1V-5
9470.6                9-1V-6
9470.7                9-1V-7
9470.8                9-1V-8
9470.9                9-1V-9
9475                  9-1W-0
9475.1                9-1W-1
9475.2                9-1W-2
9475.3                9-1W-3
9475.4                9-1W-4
9475.5                9-1W-5
9500                  9-2-0
9501                  9-2-1
9502                  9-2-2
9503                  9-2-3
9504                  9-2-4
9505                  9-2-5
9506                  9-2-6
9507                  9-2-7
9508                  9-2-8
9509                  9-2-9
9510                  9-2-10
9511                  9-2-11
9512                  9-2-12
9513                  9-2-13
9514                  9-2-14
9515                  9-2-15
9516                  9-2-16
9517                  9-2-17
9518                  9-2-18
9519                  9-2-19
9530                  9-3-0
9531                  9-3-1
9532                  9-3-2
9533                  9-3-3
9560                  9-4-0
9561                  9-4-1
9562                  9-4-2
9563                  9-4-3
9600                  9-5-0
9601                  9-5-1
9602                  9-5-2
9603                  9-5-3
9604                  9-5-4
9605                  9-5-5
9610                  9-6A-0
9611                  9-6A-1
9612                  9-6A-2
9613                  9-6A-3
9614                  9-6A-4
9615                  9-6B-0
9616                  9-6B-1
9617                  9-6B-2
9618                  9-6C-0
9619                  9-6C-1
9620                  9-6C-2
9630                  9-7-0
9631                  9-7-1
9632                  9-7-2
9633                  9-7-3
 
 
 
 
