CITY OF WHITE HALL, ARKANSAS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Contains 2025 S-28 Supplement,
local legislation current through Ord. 562, passed 4-21-25
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
CITY OFFICIALS
MAYOR
Noel Foster
CITY CLERK-TREASURER
Ellen Welch
ALDERMEN
Ward 1 - Position 1 Sara Buffkin
Ward 1 - Position 2 Scott Ray
Ward 2 - Position 2 Beaver Johnson
Ward 3 - Position 1 David Beck
Ward 3 - Position 2 Joel Foster
CITY ATTORNEY
Tom Owens
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCES
   ORDINANCE NO. 239
ENACTING AS AN ORDINANCE, A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF WHITE HALL,
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING, AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING
GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE CITY DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SAID CODE.
WHEREAS, the present general ordinances of the City of White Hall, Arkansas are
incomplete and inadequate and the manner of arrangement, classification and
indexing thereof is insufficient to meet the immediate needs of the City; and
WHEREAS, the Acts of the State Legislature of the State of Arkansas empower and
authorize the City Legislative Body of this City to revise, amend, restate,
codify and to compile any existing ordinance or ordinances and all new
ordinances not heretofore adopted or published and to incorporate said
ordinances into one ordinance in book form; and
WHEREAS, the Legislative Body of the City of White Hall, Arkansas has
authorized a general compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances
of the City of a general and permanent nature and publication of such
ordinances in book form.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Legislative Body of the City of White
Hall, Arkansas that:
Section 1. The general ordinances of the City of White Hall, Arkansas as herein
revised, amended, restated, codified and compiled in book form are adopted as
and shall constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the City of White Hall,
Arkansas."
Section 2. Said Code as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of the following
titles, to wit:
      Title I      General Provisions
      Title III      Administration
      Title V      Public Works
      Title VII      Traffic Code
      Title IX      General Regulations
      Title XI      Business Regulations
      Title XIII      General Offenses
      Title XV      Land Usage
      Tables of Special Ordinances
      Parallel References
      Index
Section 3.  All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in said
Code shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of said Code
except as they are included and reordained in whole or in part in said Code;
provided such repeal shall not affect any offense committed or penalty incurred
or any right established prior to the effective date of said Code, nor shall
such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances levying taxes, appropriating
money, annexing or detaching territory, establishing franchises or granting
special rights to certain persons, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or
personal property, granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land
to public use, naming or vacating or setting the boundaries of streets, alleys
or other public places, nor to any other ordinance of a temporary or special
nature to subjects not contained therein.
Section 4. Said Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the City Legislative Body and the Clerk of the City of White
Hall, Arkansas is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of said Code in
the Office of the City Clerk.
Section 5. Said Code shall be in full force and effect four weeks from the date
of its publication and filing thereof in the Office of the Clerk, and said Code
shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of this ordinance and
all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein contained and of
the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed, attested, recorded
and approved and that any public hearings and notices thereof as required by
law have been given.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Legislative Body of the City of White Hall,
Arkansas this 21st day of October, 1996.
                              James Morgan /s/
                              Mayor
ATTEST:
Michelle Elkins /s/
City Clerk/Treasurer
                          
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   CITY STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the municipality of White Hall
shall be designated as the Code of White Hall and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation, shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Terms defined. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
   CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY. The City of White Hall,
Arkansas.
   CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as modified
by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or sections.
   COUNTY. Jefferson County, Arkansas.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
   OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this municipality unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
   PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
   PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
   STATE. The State of Arkansas.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have subchapters.
   WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
   YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed; equivalent to the words
YEAR OF OUR LORD.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this municipality shall be by the
following rules, unless such construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of
the legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance:
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, such
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of such act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, such
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this municipality exercising the powers,
duties, or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any
transfer of functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express such intent, such spelling shall be corrected and such word
or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
such error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state or federal laws, shall
be the official time within this municipality for the transaction of all
municipal business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of such act or the giving of such notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature
pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and embraced. All prior ordinances
pertaining to the subjects treated by this code shall be deemed repealed from
and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from
their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of such chapter or section. In addition to such
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-80; Am.
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (A.C. § 14-55-504) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-
85).
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information.
Example:
§ 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
   For provisions concerning the inspection of public records, see
           A.C. §§ 25-19-101 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Maximum penalties permitted.
      (1)   The city shall not inflict any fine or penalty, by ordinance or
otherwise, to a greater sum than $500 for any one specified offense or
violation of a bylaw or ordinance, or double that sum for each repetition of
such offense or violation.
      (2)   If a thing prohibited or rendered unlawful is, in its nature,
continuous in respect to time, the fine or penalty for allowing the continuance
thereof, in violation of the bylaw or ordinance, shall not exceed $250 for each
day that it may be unlawfully continued.
      (3)   If any bylaw or ordinance provides for any greater fine, penalty,
or forfeiture than in provided in this section, it shall and may be lawful, in
any suit or prosecution for the recovery thereof, to reduce it to such amount
as shall be deemed reasonable and proper and to permit a recovery or render or
judgment for such amount as authorized.
(A.C. § 14-55-504)
   (B)   Imprisonment to enforce fine.  
      (1)   The City Council shall have power to provide that, when a fine
shall be imposed for the violation of any ordinance of the city and it is not
paid, the party convicted shall, by order of the
Mayor or other proper authority or on process issued for the purpose, be
committed until the fine and costs of prosecution shall be paid, or the party
discharged by due course of law.
      (2)   The City Council shall also have power to provide that any person
convicted of a repeated and willful violation of any ordinance, who shall
refuse or neglect to pay the fine imposed and the cost of prosecution, by like
order or process, shall be imprisoned and kept in confinement for any term not
exceeding 30 days.
      (3)   The city shall be allowed, for the purpose of imprisonment
authorized under this section, the use of the county jail. All persons so
imprisoned shall be under the charge of the County Sheriff, who shall receive
and discharge the person in such manner as shall be prescribed by the
ordinances of the city or, otherwise, by due course of law.
(A.C. § 14-55-602)
   (C)   Outside work for jailed persons. Prisoners confined in jail by
sentence of the municipal court, for a violation of a city or town bylaw,
ordinance, or regulation, may, by ordinance, be required to work out the amount
of all fines, penalties, forfeitures, and costs at the rate prescribed in A.C.
§ 16-90-108, on the streets or other improvement under the control of the City
Council.
(A.C. § 14-55-603)
   (D)   Working out of fines. The City Council may, at its discretion, provide
by ordinance that fines imposed for violation of ordinances may be discharged
by the offender working out the fine upon the streets or alleys of the city, at
the rate prescribed in A.C. § 16-90-108, and may adopt all necessary
regulations for the safekeeping, management, and control of offenders while
working out the fine.
(A.C. § 14-55-604)
   (E)   Suit for recovery of fines, etc.  
      (1)   Fines, penalties, and forfeitures, in all cases and in addition to
any other mode provided, may be recovered by suit or action before any court of
competent jurisdiction, in the name of this city and for its use.
      (2)   In such a suit or action, where pleading is necessary, it shall be
sufficient to declare generally for the amount claimed to be due, in respect to
the bylaw or ordinance, referring to its title and the date of its adoption or
passage, and showing, as nearly as may be, the true time of the alleged
violation.
      (3)   All suits or prosecutions for the recovery of any fines, penalties,
or forfeitures, or for the commission of any offense made punishable by any
bylaw or ordinance of this city, shall be commenced within one year after the
violation of the bylaw or ordinances, or commission of the offense, and not
afterwards, if the offender has remained within the jurisdiction of the city
during the one year. If not, then the limitation provided in this division
shall extend for the term of five years.
(A.C. § 14-55-605)
   (F)   Additional remedies.
      (1)   In all cases of violation of any of its ordinances, this city, in
addition to any other mode provided by law, shall have the right to recover in
a civil action the amount of the lowest penalty or fines provided in the
ordinance for each violation or, where the offense is in its nature continuous
in respect to time, for each day's violation thereof, and also the amount of
any license which the person guilty of the violations was required by any such
ordinance to take out.
      (2)   The municipal court shall have jurisdiction in all such actions
concurrent with justices of the peace.
      (3)   In all cases, where a fine may have been imposed by the municipal
court, that court, in addition to the power of enforcing payment of the fine by
imprisonment, shall have full power to issue an execution or writ of
garnishment, to be executed by the Chief of Police, in like manner and with
like effect as if issued by a justice of the peace in any civil case tried
before him, and like proceedings may be had thereunder.
(A.C. § 14-55-606)
   (G)   Disposition of fines.
      (1)   All fines and penalties imposed by the city, police, or municipal
court in this city shall be paid into the city treasury.
      (2)   The City Council shall have power to prescribe all necessary
regulations for the collection, and accounting for, fines and penalties.
(A.C. § 14-55-608)
CHAPTER 11: CITY STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   City status
   
11.02   City boundaries
§ 11.01 CITY STATUS.
   The city shall be a first class city, as provided by the laws of the State
of Arkansas, and shall have all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties
provided for cities of the first class under the laws of the State of Arkansas.
(Ord. 129, passed 12-13-82)
§ 11.02 CITY BOUNDARIES.
   The corporate boundaries of the city shall be as follows:
   South 330 feet of southeast quarter (SE¼) of southwest quarter (SW¼),
section nine, township five south, range ten west;
   Southwest quarter (SW¼) of southeast quarter (SE¼), section nine, township
five south, range ten west;
   South 330 feet of southeast quarter (SE¼) of southeast quarter (SE¼),
section nine, township five south, range ten west;
   West 660 feet of north one-half (N½) of section 15, township five south,
range ten west;
   All of northwest quarter (NW¼) of southwest quarter (SW¼) of section 15,
township five south, range ten west, except the northeast quarter (NE¼) of the
northwest quarter (NW¼) of southwest quarter (SW¼) of said section;
   East one-half (E½) of section 16, township five south, range ten west;
   All of northeast quarter (NE¼) of northwest quarter (NW¼), section 16,
township five south, range ten west, except the southwest quarter (SW¼) of
northeast quarter (NE¼) of northwest quarter (NW¼) of said section;
   East one-half (E½) of southeast quarter (SE¼) of southwest quarter (SW¼) of
section 16, township five south, range ten west;
   Northeast quarter (NE¼) of northeast quarter (NE¼) of northwest quarter
(NW¼) of section 21, township 5 south, range ten west;
   North one-half (N½) of northeast quarter of section 21, township five south,
range ten west;
   North one-half (N½) of south one-half (S½) of northeast quarter (NE¼) of
section 21, township five south, range ten west.
(Ord. 1, passed 10-29-64)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   CITY COUNCIL
      
31.   CITY OFFICIALS
      
32.   DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
      
33.   CIVIL EMERGENCIES
      
34.   FINANCE AND TAXATION
      
35.   CITY COURT
      
36.   CITY POLICY
CHAPTER 30: CITY COUNCIL
Section
   
30.01   Composition of Council
   
30.02   Regular meetings
   
30.03   Special meetings
   
30.04   Wards
   
30.05   Referendum petitions
§ 30.01 COMPOSITION OF COUNCIL.
   The officers of the city shall be one Mayor, one Clerk-Treasurer, and six
Aldermen who shall be qualified electors residing within their wards within the
limits of the corporation, and such Mayor and Aldermen shall constitute the
City Council. A quorum shall be established pursuant to state statute.
(Ord. 1, passed 10-29-64)
§ 30.02 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   The Council meetings shall be held regularly on the third Monday of each
month, at 7:00 p.m.
(Ord. 1, passed 10-29-64)
§ 30.03 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   Special meetings of the City Council may be called by:
      (1)   The Mayor;
      (2)   The joint action of three members of the City Council.
   (B)   To call a special meeting of the City Council, the persons authorized
to call such a special meeting shall notify the City Clerk-Treasurer of their
desires to call such a meeting in writing stating the time and place of said
meeting and the purpose for which the meeting is to be called.
   (C)   Upon receipt of written notice by the Mayor or notice signed by three
Aldermen of the city, the Clerk-Treasurer shall notify the Mayor, City Clerk-
Treasurer, and all Aldermen, of the time, place and purpose of the meeting,
except that if the meeting is called by the Mayor, notice to the Mayor shall
not be necessary and if the meeting is called by three Aldermen notice shall
not be necessary to the Aldermen calling the meeting. The notice shall be
mailed by regular mail at least 48 hours prior to the time of the calling of
the meeting or the notice may be hand delivered so as to give actual notice at
least 24 hours prior to the time of the meeting; however, if a waiver of notice
is signed by any person authorized to receive notice, the notice required above
shall not be necessary for the holding of a legal special meeting of the City
Council.
   (D)   In the event the City Clerk-Treasurer fails to give the notice or is
not available to give the notice the persons desiring to call the meeting shall
give the notice provided for in division (C) above.
   (E)   The notice shall state the time and place that the special meeting
will be held and the purpose for which the meeting is being called and the name
of the person or persons calling the meeting.
   (F)   No special meeting of the City Council shall take any action on any
matter not stated in the notice calling the special meeting unless motion is
passed at the special meeting by a two-thirds majority of all members elected
to the City Council approving the taking up of the matter not included in the
notice.
   (G)   Quorum. The requirements for a special meeting of the City Council
shall be the same as that for a regular meeting of the City Council.
(Ord. 15, passed 8-24-65)
Statutory reference:
   Authority for three aldermen to call a special meeting, see A.C. § 14-43-502
§ 30.04 WARDS.
   Ward boundaries for the city shall be as shown on the map attached to Ord.
No. 220, passed 4-30-93, as amended by Ord. 315, passed 11-19-01 and Ord. 439,
passed 11-21-11.
(Ord. 220, passed 4-30-93; Am. Ord. 315, passed 11-19-01; Am. Ord. 439, passed
11-21-11)
§ 30.05 REFERENDUM PETITIONS.
   (A)   All referendum petitions under Amendment No. 7 to the Constitution of
the State of Arkansas must be filed with the City Clerk-Treasurer within 30
days after the passage of such ordinance or resolution.
2012 S-18
   (B)   Whenever any referendum petition is filed, the Mayor, acting on behalf
of the City Council, shall give notice by publication for one insertion in a
newspaper published in the County of Jefferson and having a general circulation
in the City of White Hall of a time not less than five days after the
publication of such notice at which the City Council will hear all persons who
wish to be heard on the question whether such petition is signed by the
requisite number of petitioners. At the time named, the City Council shall
meet, at its regular place of meeting, and hear all who wish to be heard on the
question, and its decision shall be final, unless suit is brought in the
Chancery Court of Jefferson County, Arkansas, within 30 days to review its
action.
   (C)   If the City Council finds that such petition is signed by the
requisite number of qualified petitioners, it shall order a special election to
determine by a vote of the qualified electors whether the ordinance or
resolution shall stand or be revoked, and fix a date which shall not be less
than ten days after the date of the action of the Council calling the election.
The Mayor shall publish a notice of the call of such election in not less than
one issue of a newspaper published in the County of Jefferson and having a
general circulation in the city not less than five days prior to the date of
the election. Such notice shall designate by its number, caption, and date of
passage, the ordinance or resolution which has been referred to the people for
approval or rejection by their vote at such election. Otherwise, subject to the
provisions of Amendment No. 7 to the Constitution of Arkansas, and other
applicable laws, such election shall be conducted in the manner provided by law
for the conduct of a regular municipal election.
   (D)   If any ordinance or resolution referred to the people is defeated at
the polls, the City Council shall make note of such fact and shall expunge such
ordinance or resolution from its files by erasing the same with red ink.
(Ord. 63, passed 10-10-72)
Statutory reference:
   Provisions affecting initiative and referenda, see A,C, 7-9-101 through 7-9-
104
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
   
31.01   Clerk-Treasurer
Cross-reference:
   Mayor, see §
30.01
§ 31.01 CLERK-TREASURER.
   The offices of City Clerk and City Treasurer for the City of White Hall are
hereby combined and one person shall serve and shall be designated as Clerk-
Treasurer.
(Ord. 130, passed 12-13-82)
CHAPTER 32: DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
City Planning Commission
   
32.01   Creation
   
32.02   Duties
   
32.03   Appointment; terms
Fire Department
   
32.15   Creation; composition
   
32.16   Compensation
   
32.17   Use of fire apparatus outside of city
Police Department
   
32.30   Establishment
   
32.31   Bail bond fee
   
32.32   Warrant service fee and mileage reimbursement
Advertising and Promotion Commission
   
32.45   Commission created
   
32.46   Operation; powers and duties
   
32.47   Reports
Mayor’s Military Affairs Advisory Committee
   
32.55   Establishment
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 32.01 CREATION.
   There is hereby created a commission of the city to be known as the City
Planning Commission, which Commission shall consist of seven members who shall
serve without compensation and of whom not more than one-third may hold any
other municipal office or appointment
(Ord. 14, passed 7-27-65; Am. Ord. 233, passed 2-13-95)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to create a planning commission, see A.C. § 14-56-404
§ 32.02 DUTIES.
   The City Planning Commission shall have all the duties and functions as
pertaining to planning commission as conferred upon the city for planning as
provided by Act 186 of the Acts of Arkansas 1957, as amended, being A.C. §§ 14-
56-401 through 14-56-425.
(Ord. 14, passed 7-27-65)
§ 32.03 APPOINTMENT; TERMS.
   (A)   The members of the City Planning Commission shall be named and
appointed by the Mayor and his appointments will be valid and effective upon
confirmation by the City Council.
   (B)   (1)   The terms of the members of the Planning Commission shall be:
         (a)   Position No. 1, one year.
         (b)   Position No. 2, two years.
         (c)   Position No. 3, three years.
         (d)   Position No. 4, four years.
         (e)   Position No. 5, five years.
         (f)   Position No. 6, six years.
         (g)   Position No. 7, four years.
      (2)   The Mayor shall designate the terms of the initial appointments.
Thereafter as vacancies occur in the Commission, for whatever cause, said
vacancies shall be filled in the manner provided and said appointees shall hold
office until expiration of the term which they were appointed to fill. All
members of the Commission whose terms may expire shall serve until their
successors in office have been appointed and confirmed.
(Ord. 14, passed 7-27-65; Am. Ord. 233, passed 2-13-95)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.15 CREATION; COMPOSITION.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority of A.C. §§ 14-53-101 through 14-53-112, the
Fire Department is hereby created.
   (B)   The Fire Department shall consist of one Fire Chief and such other
positions as are created by the Council.
(Ord. 70, passed 11-5-73)
§ 32.16 COMPENSATION.
   The salaries and/or fees paid to the Chief and other employees shall be set
by the City Council by the adoption of resolutions.
(Ord. 70, passed 11-5-73)
§ 32.17 USE OF FIRE APPARATUS OUTSIDE OF CITY.
   (A)   No Fire Department apparatus shall be dispatched beyond the corporate
limits of the city to assist at any fire or for any other purpose, except by
order of the Mayor or Fire Chief or their designated representatives, and
subject to the restrictions and conditions hereinafter set forth.
   (B)   The Mayor or Fire Chief are authorized, in their discretion, to aid in
the extinguishing of fires in another city or community, public institutions,
corporations, or other property within a reasonable distance from the city, or
on property adjacent to the city in which there is possibility of fire
spreading within the corporate limits under the following conditions:
      (1)   A request from a city or incorporated town or organized fire
protection agency must come only from the Mayor, Fire Chief, or other person as
may be designated by mutual aid agreement.
      (2)   A request from an individual property owner for fire protection
service to his property adjacent to the corporate limits of the city will be
honored only when there is a prior request and agreement on file with the Fire
Department.
      (3)   Calls for fire protection service may be responded to only by such
apparatus which in the judgement of the Mayor or Fire Chief can safely be
dispatched without unduly impairing the fire protection within the city, and
when highway and weather conditions are favorable.
      (4)   The city, incorporated town, organized fire protection agency,
public institution, corporation, or individual property owners requesting fire
protection assistance must pay the charge for apparatus and service as
hereinafter provided for unless there exists a current mutual aid agreement.
      (5)   The city, incorporated town, organized fire protection agency,
public institution, or corporation, requesting fire protection service must
compensate the city for any loss or damage to such apparatus while answering
such call.
   (C)   (1)   Unless there exists a mutual aid agreement or prior request and
agreement, every city, incorporated town, organized fire protection agency,
individual property owner, public institution or corporation requesting and
receiving such fire protection service from the city shall pay for such service
and use of apparatus as follows:
         (a)   Pumper truck - $100 per call plus $25 for each half-hour or
fraction thereof;
         (b)   Tank truck - $75 per call plus $25 per hour or fraction thereof;
      (2)   Such fees shall be payable to the city within 15 days after
billing.
   (D)   The Mayor, Clerk-Treasurer and Fire Chief are hereby authorized to
enter into mutual aid agreements with other cities, incorporated towns,
organized fire protection agencies, public institutions and corporations, and
to enter into prior requests and agreements with individual property owners for
the providing of fire protection services, subject to the following conditions:
that the parties with whom such mutual aid agreements are entered into shall
agree to indemnify the city against any and all loss, cost and damages which it
may suffer or sustain by reason of damage to any apparatus arising from any
cause whatsoever while such apparatus is going to or from the scene of the
fire. Indemnity shall be made within 15 days after the date of billing.
   (E)   Monies collected under the terms of division (C) above of this section
shall be used to provide hospitalization, and income insurance for the members
of the White Hall Volunteer Fire Department and to increase the funds in the
Firemen's Pension Fund and for no other purpose. Monies collected under
division (D) above of this section shall be used for repair, maintenance and
replacement of apparatus and equipment which may suffer or sustain damage as a
result of responding to a call for fire protection service, while at the scene
of a fire, and while returning to the city from the scene of the fire.
(Ord. 100, passed 3-14-77)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate use of fire apparatus outside of city, see A.C. § 14-
53-102
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.30 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   The Mayor hereby establishes a Police Department in accordance with
state laws.
   (B)   Rules and regulations for the Police Department shall be established
and approved by the Mayor and/or the White Hall City Council.
   (C)   The Mayor shall appoint a Chief of Police from within the authorized
strength of the Department.
(Ord. 132, passed 2-14-83; Am. Ord. 509, passed 9-17-18)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to establish police department, see A.C. § 14-52-101
§ 32.31 BAIL BOND FEE.
   The city shall have and collect through the Police Department a fee of $10
that shall be paid to them for taking and entering bail bonds for each person
who is arrested, or who shall be jailed by the Police Department, or shall have
to post bail for an offense brought under the venue and jurisdiction of the
Municipal Court. In the event that one person is incarcerated or arrested for
more than one offense in any one given day, there shall be no further bail bond
fee than the $10 that is cited above. In the event that the same person is
arrested on a different day, or otherwise incarcerated by the Police
Department, then an additional $10 bail bond fee shall be paid to the city.
(Ord. 189, passed 3-12-90)
§ 32.32 WARRANT SERVICE FEE AND MILEAGE REIMBURSEMENT.
   (A)   The city police may collect the sum of $25 for the service of any and
all criminal warrants and summons.
   (B)   The city police may collect mileage at the rate established by the
current Department of Finance and Administration schedule, for all miles driven
outside of the corporate city limits.
   (C)   All funds collected pursuant to this section shall be deposited into
the Criminal Justice Fund.
(Ord. 370, passed 7-18-05)
ADVERTISING AND PROMOTION COMMISSION
§ 32.45 COMMISSION CREATED.
   The White Hall Advertising and Promotion Commission is hereby created. Said
Commission shall be composed of seven members, each of whom shall be residents
of the county in which the corporate limits exist, as follows:
   (A)   Four members shall be owners or managers of businesses in the tourism
industry, at least three of whom shall be owners or managers of hotels, motels
or restaurants, and who shall serve for staggered terms of four years; and the
four tourism industry positions provided for in this section shall be filled by
appointment made by the governing body of the city for staggered terms so that:
      (1) One member will serve a term of one year;
      (2) One for a term of two years;
      (3) One for a term of three years;
      (4) One for a term of four years.
   (B)   Two members of the Commission shall be members of the governing body
of the city and selected by the governing body and shall serve at the will of
the governing body; and,
   (C)   One member shall be from the public at large and shall serve a term of
four years; and,
   (D)   Vacancies on the Commission, whether resulting from expiration of a
regular term or otherwise, in any of the four tourism industry positions or in
the at-large position shall be filled by appointment made by the remaining
members of the Commission, with the approval of the governing body of the city.
(Ord. 253, passed 5-19-97; Am. Ord. 498, passed 2-21-17)
§ 32.46 OPERATION; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Commissioners shall elect officers and adopt such rules, regulations and
procedures as they deem necessary and appropriate for the proper operation of
the Commission. The Commission shall operate pursuant to the authority vested
therein by A.C. §§ 26-75-601 et seq., as amended, and shall utilize all
revenues collected in the City Advertising and Promotion Fund for purposes not
inconsistent with said statutes and local ordinances.
(Ord. 253, passed 5-19-97)
§ 32.47 REPORTS.
   The Commission shall make quarterly reports to the Mayor and City Council,
reporting in full on the operations of the Commission, including an accounting
of receipts and disbursements, and shall submit to the Mayor and City Council
an annual audit prepared by a recognized independent auditing firm, when so
requested.
(Ord. 253, passed 5-19-97)
Cross-reference:
   Advertising and Promotion Fund, see § 34.26
MAYOR’S MILITARY AFFAIRS ADVISORY COMMITTEE
§ 32.55 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   (1)   The city recognizes the growing need for a strong national
security on Federal, state and local levels;
      (2)   The Mayor wishes to form the Mayor’s Military Affairs Advisory
Committee consisting of a minimum of seven no more than nine members to be
appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by the City Council for a term of two
years;
      (3)   The specific mission of the Committee will be to bring a locally
focused and engaged attention to the needs of the Pine Bluff Arsenal and its
employees so that the installation can continue to provide services that are
vital to our Nation’s defense;
      (4)   The Mayor or the Committee Chair will call meetings and conduct
Committee business as they see necessary;
      (5)   The City Council recommends that the Mayor and Committee by or
through its representative communicate and work closely with the leadership of
the Pine Bluff Arsenal to promote sustainability and increased missions vital
to our Nation’s defense at the Pine Bluff Arsenal; and
      (6)   The City Council agrees to provide annual funding as necessary to
carry out the mission and needs of the Mayor’s Military Affairs Advisory
Committee.
   (B)   The Mayor’s Military Affairs Advisory Committee is hereby established
as set forth in this section.
(Ord. 487, passed 7-18-16)
CHAPTER 33: CIVIL EMERGENCIES
Section
   
33.01   Authority and control of Civil Defense Agency
   
33.02   Director
   
33.03   Mayor may declare state of emergency and curfew
 
   
33.99   Penalty
§ 33.01 AUTHORITY AND CONTROL OF CIVIL DEFENSE AGENCY.
   (A)   A civil defense agency for the city is hereby established.
   (B)   The Mayor shall be responsible for and have general direction and
control of the civil defense of this city.
(Ord. 27, passed 12-26-67)
§ 33.02 DIRECTOR.
   The Mayor is hereby authorized to appoint a Director of Civil Defense for
the city who shall perform such duties as are imposed upon him by this chapter,
and as are delegated to him by the Mayor and City Council when not contrary to
the laws of this state.
   (A)   The Director shall coordinate the activities of all organizations for
civil defense within the city, and shall maintain liaison with and cooperate
with the civil defense agencies and organizations of other cities and of the
state and federal government.
   (B)   The Director of Civil Defense shall have the authority to appoint a
Co-director, and such other personnel as he may deem necessary for the proper
function of his office.
   (C)   In performing his duties under this chapter, the Director of Civil
Defense is authorized to cooperate with state and federal government, and with
private agencies in all matters pertaining to civil defense of this city.
   (D)   To prepare a comprehensive program for the civil defense of this city
the Civil Defense Director is authorized to institute training programs and
public information programs, and to take all other preparatory steps in advance
of actual disaster, including the establishment of a civil defense special
police unit for the city and to make such studies and surveys of the city and
to make such studies and surveys of the industries, resources and facilities in
this city as may be necessary for the emergency use thereof.
   (E)   The Director of Civil Defense shall have the authority to receive such
services, equipment, supplies, materials or other funds on behalf of the city
from the federal government or any agency or officer thereof, subject to the
terms of the offer and the rules and regulations, if any, of the agency making
the offer.
(Ord. 27, passed 12-26-67)
§ 33.03 MAYOR MAY DECLARE STATE OF EMERGENCY AND CURFEW.
   (A)   The Mayor may, any time a condition which in his judgement constitutes
a civil disturbance, riot, insurrection or time of local disaster has arisen or
is imminent, declare a state of emergency and impose a curfew for such time and
for such areas as he deems necessary to meet such emergency. Such curfew shall
not extend for over a period of 48 hours unless extended by a majority vote of
the members of the City Council.
   (B)   No person or persons shall congregate, operate any businesses or be
upon the streets or other public ways, unless on official business for the city
or state, in any area or areas designated by the Mayor as curfew areas in the
city during the time of any declared emergency.
(Ord. 28, passed 4-6-68) Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §
33.03 shall upon conviction thereof be punished by a fine not to exceed $500 or
more than one year imprisonment, or by both fine and imprisonment.
(Ord. 28, passed 4-6-68)
CHAPTER 34: FINANCE AND TAXATION
Section
Purchasing Procedures
   
34.01   Purchases under certain amount
   
34.02   Purchases over certain amount require competitive bids
   
34.03   Approval of payments
   
34.04   Sale or exchange of supplies, materials or equipment
Sales and Use Tax
   
34.15   Levy
Gross Receipts Tax on Hotels, Motels, and Restaurants
   
34.20   Definition
   
34.21   Gross receipts tax
   
34.22   Collection
   
34.23   Taxable businesses
   
34.24   Creation of Advertising and Promotion Fund; authorized uses
Assets
   
34.30   Fixed asset records
PURCHASING PROCEDURES
§ 34.01 PURCHASES UNDER CERTAIN AMOUNT.
   The Mayor, or his duly authorized representative, shall have exclusive power
and responsibility to make purchases of all supplies, apparatus, equipment,
materials and other things requisite for public purposes for the city and to
make all necessary contracts for work or labor to be done, or material or
other necessary things to be furnished for the benefit of the city where the
amount of the expenditure for any purpose or contract does not exceed the sum
of $35,000.
(A.C. § 14-58-303) (Ord. 147, passed 8-13-84; Am. Ord. 169, passed 3-16-87; Am.
Ord. 465, passed 4-21-14; Am. Ord. 551, passed 9-18-23)
§ 34.02 PURCHASES OVER CERTAIN AMOUNT REQUIRED COMPETITIVE BIDS.
   Where the amount of expenditure for any purchase or contract exceeds the sum
of $35,000, the Mayor, or his duly authorized representative, shall invite
competitive bids thereon by legal advertisement in any local newspaper. Bids
received pursuant to said advertisement shall be opened and read on the date
set for receiving said bids, in the presence of the Mayor, or his duly
authorized representative. The contract shall be awarded to the lowest
responsible bidder, provided, however, that the Mayor, or his duly authorized
representative, may reject any and all bids received.
(A.C. § 14-58-303) (Ord. 147, passed 8-13-84; Am. Ord. 169, passed 3-16-87; Am.
Ord. 465, passed 4-21-14; Am. Ord. 551, passed 9-18-23)
§ 34.03 APPROVAL OF PAYMENTS.
   The Mayor, or his duly authorized representative, may approve for payment
out of any funds previously appropriated for that purpose, or disapprove any
bills, debts or liabilities asserted as claims against the city, when funds on
hand are adequate to pay such bills, debts or liabilities. The payment or
disapproval of any bills, debts or liabilities not covered by a previous
appropriation shall require confirmation of the governing body.
(Ord. 147, passed 8-13-84)
§ 34.04 SALE OR EXCHANGE OF SUPPLIES, MATERIALS OR EQUIPMENT.
   The Mayor, or his duly authorized representative, may sell or exchange any
municipal supplies, materials or equipment without competitive bidding if such
supplies, materials or equipment have a value of less than $35,000. No
supplies, materials or equipment shall be sold without receiving competitive
bids therefor if the value thereof exceeds the sum of $35,000, provided,
however, that if the Mayor shall certify in writing to the governing body that,
in his opinion, the fair market value of such item or lot (to be disposed of in
one unit) is less than $35,000, the same may be sold by the Mayor without
competitive bidding.
(Ord. 147, passed 8-13-84; Am. Ord. 465, passed 4-21-14; Am. Ord. 551, passed
9-18-23)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate disposition of city-owned property, see A.C. § 14-58-
306
SALES AND USE TAX
§ 34.15 LEVY.
   (A)   Levy. As authorized by Act 25 of 1st Extraordinary Sessions of 1981,
as amended by Acts 726 and 802 of 1983, there is hereby levied a sales and use
tax at the rate of 1% on the receipts from the sale at retail within the city,
on all such items which are subject to taxation under the Arkansas Gross
Receipts Tax Act, Act 386 of 1941 of the Acts of Arkansas, as amended, subject
to a maximum of $25 for a single transaction.
   (B)   Definition.  SINGLE TRANSACTION is defined according to the nature of
the goods purchased as follows:
      (1)   When two or more devices in which, upon which, or by which any
person or property is, or may be, transported or drawn, including to but not
limited to on-road vehicles, whether required to be licensed or not, off-road
vehicles, farm vehicles, airplanes, water vessels, motor vehicles or non-
motorized vehicles, and mobile homes, are sold to a person by a seller, each
individual unit, whether part of a “fleet” sale or not, shall be treated as a
single transaction for the purpose of the local sales tax.
      (2)   The charges for utility services, which are subject to the Sales
and Use Tax, and which are furnished on a continuous service basis, whether
such services are paid daily, weekly, monthly, or annually, for the purpose of
the local sales tax, shall be computed in daily increments, and such daily
charge increment shall be considered to be a single transaction for the purpose
of the local sales tax.
      (3)   For sales of building materials and supplies to contractors,
builders, or other persons, a single transaction, for the purpose of the local
sales tax, shall be deemed to be any single sale which is reflected on a single
invoice, receipt, or statement on which an aggregate sales (or use) tax figure
has been reported and remitted to the state.
      (4)   When two or more items of major household appliances, commercial
appliances, major equipment and machinery are sold, each individual unit shall
be treated as a single transaction for the purpose of the local sales tax.
      (5)   For groceries, drug items, dry goods, and other tangible personal
property and/or services not otherwise expressly covered in this section, a
single transaction shall be deemed to be any sale which is reflected on a
single invoice, receipt, or statement on which an aggregated sales tax figure
has been reported and remitted to the state.
(Ord. 151, passed 12-10-84; Am. Ord. 152, passed 12-10-84)
GROSS RECEIPTS TAX ON HOTELS, MOTELS, AND RESTAURANTS
§ 34.20 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SIMILAR BUSINESSES. Any establishment engaged in the business of selling
prepared food or beverages for consumption, on or off premises.
(Ord. 253, passed 5-19-97; Am. Ord. 498, passed 2-21-17)
§ 34.21 GROSS RECEIPTS TAX.
   (A)   A tax in the sum of 3% shall be levied in the city upon the gross
receipts or gross proceeds from renting, leasing, or otherwise furnishing
hotel, motel, or short term condominium rental accommodations for sleeping,
meeting, or party room facilities for profit, but such accommodations shall not
include the rental or lease of such accommodations for periods of 30 days or
more.
   (B)   A tax in the sum of 3% shall be levied upon the portion of the gross
receipts or gross proceeds received by restaurants, cafes, cafeterias, delis,
drive-in restaurants, carry-out restaurants, concession stands, convenience
stores, grocery-store restaurants, and similar businesses, from the sale of
prepared food and beverages for on or off-premises consumption, but such tax
shall not apply to such gross receipts or gross proceeds of organizations
qualified under Section 501 (c)(3) of the federal Internal Revenue Code.
(Ord. 253, passed 5-19-97; Am. Ord. 498, passed 2-21-17)
§ 34.22 COLLECTION.
   The taxes so levied shall be paid by the persons, firms and corporations
liable therefor and shall be collected by the White Hall Advertising and
Promotion Commission or by a designated agent of said Commission in the same
manner and at the same time as the tax levied by the Arkansas Gross Receipts
Act of 1941, A.C. §§ 26-52-101 et seq. The person paying the tax shall report
and remit it upon the forms provided by the Commission. The rules, regulations,
forms of notice, assessment procedures, and the enforcement and collection of
the tax under the Arkansas Gross Receipts Act of 1941, A.C. §§ 26-52-101 et
seq., shall so far as practicable be applicable with respect to the enforcement
and collection of the taxes levied herein. However, the administration and
enforcement, and all actions, shall be by, and in the name of, the Commission
through the proper Commission officials or agents.
(Ord. 253, passed 5-19-97; Am. Ord. 498, passed 2-21-17)
2017 S-22
§ 34.23 TAXABLE BUSINESSES.
   The White Hall Advertising and Promotion Commission shall prepare and
maintain a current list of the business establishments in the city, which are
subject to the taxes levied by this subchapter.
(Ord. 253, passed 5-19-97; Am. Ord. 498, passed 2-21-17)
§ 34.24 CREATION OF ADVERTISING AND PROMOTION FUND; AUTHORIZED USES.
   There is hereby created a fund to be known as the White Hall Advertising and
Promotion Fund. All taxes, interest, penalties and costs collected pursuant to
this subchapter shall be credited to said fund. All revenues received by the
Commission shall be "special revenues" and shall be deposited by the Commission
in such bank account or accounts as may be designated by said Commission. All
monies credited to the fund shall be used by the Commission for advertising and
promoting the city and its environs or for the construction, reconstruction,
extension, equipment, improvement, maintenance, repair and operation of a city
civic or youth center, or for the operation of tourist promotion facilities in
the city, and facilities necessary for supporting, or otherwise pertaining to,
a city civic or youth center, for funding of the arts, for family entertainment
and city park facilities, or other tourist-oriented facilities as determined by
the Commission, not inconsistent with Arkansas enabling statutes. Such funds
shall not be used for general capital improvements within the city, for costs
associated with the general operation of the city, or for the general subsidy
of any civic groups or the Chamber of Commerce. However, said Commission may
contract with such groups to provide to the Commission actual services that are
connected with tourism events or city civic activities. The authorization and
limitations contained herein shall be reasonably construed so as to provide
funds for promoting and encouraging tourism and civic activities, while not
allowing such special revenues to be utilized for expenditures that are
normally paid from the general revenues of the city, unless such expenditures
are authorized by this subchapter.
(Ord. 253, passed 5-19-97; Am. Ord. 498, passed 2-21-17)
Cross-reference:
   Advertising and Promotion Commission, see §§
32.45 -
32.47
ASSETS
§ 34.30 FIXED ASSET RECORDS.
   All fixed assets shall be listed and categorized if they have a dollar
amount value greater than $2,500 and a useful life of one year or more.
(Ord. 446, passed 8-20-12)
2017 S-22
CHAPTER 35: CITY COURT
Section
   
35.01   Creation of City Court
   
35.02   Incarceration costs
   
35.03   Collection of fines
§ 35.01 CREATION OF CITY COURT.
   (A)   The White Hall Municipal Court is hereby abolished and in its place is
created the City Court of White Hall, Arkansas.
   (B)   The City Court is created pursuant to Act 175 of 1995, being A.C. §§
16-18-111 through 16-18-112, and the appointment and selection of the City
Judge shall be in accordance with the provision of said Act and other
applicable statutes.
(Ord. 235, passed 7-28-95)
§ 35.02 INCARCERATION COSTS.
   (A)   That all defendants in White City Court, who must be jailed, are
jailed outside the city.
   (B)   That the city must pay a per diem rate for housing the defendant.
   (C)   That in addition to all other costs now or as may hereafter be
provided by law or city ordinance, there is levied and collected from each
defendant upon plea of guilty, nolo contendere, forfeiture of bond, or
determination of guilt for misdemeanors or traffic violation in the city court,
a sum not to exceed five dollars to help defray the cost of incarcerating the
city prisoners as authorized by Arkansas House Bill 1640, Act 1336 of 199.
(Ord. 275, passed 6-21-99)
§ 35.03 COLLECTION OF FINES.
   The White Hall District Court Clerk is hereby designated as the person
primarily responsible for the collection of fines assessed in District Court
for the city.
(Ord. 479, passed 3-16-15)
CHAPTER 36: CITY POLICY
Section
General Provisions
   
36.01   Payroll
Drug-Free Workplace
   
36.15   Purpose of policy
   
36.16   Policy statement
   
36.17   Safety and security-sensitive positions defined
   
36.18   Drug-free awareness program/education and training
   
36.19   Prohibited substances; legal drugs; unauthorized items
   
36.20   Use of alcohol and drugs; prohibited conduct
   
36.21   When drug and alcohol testing may be required of all employees
   
36.22   When drug and alcohol testing may be required of employees holding
safety and security-sensitive positions
   
36.23   Disciplinary action
   
36.24   Employment status pending receipt of test results
 
   
36.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 36.01 PAYROLL.
   (A)   Payroll protocols.
      (1)   Each department head receives and reviews employee time for their
department. The department heads subsequently submits approved payroll time to
the Executive Assistant to the Mayor for further review, calculation and
approval.
      (2)   The Executive Assistant to the Mayor reviews, calculates, approves
and maintains employee time and benefits.
      (3)   The Executive Assistant to the Mayor then submits approved payroll
time to the Mayor. The Mayor subsequently reviews and by signature, approves
the payroll time. The Mayor then delivers approved payroll time to the City
Clerk-Treasurer.
      (4)   The City Clerk-Treasurer reviews the approved employee time,
calculates payroll and submits approved payroll to the approved payroll
contractor.
      (5)   The approved payroll contractor reviews submitted time and employee
payroll and communicates the confirmation to the City Clerk-Treasurer. The City
Clerk-Treasurer reviews the totals on the confirmation. The City Clerk-
Treasurer approves the disbursement of funds before the approved payroll
contractor disburses the funds. The City Clerk-Treasurer then deposits adequate
funding in the payroll account to fund employee payroll.
   (B)   The City Council shall ensure that the person or entity responsible
for preparation and processing of payroll is adequately insured and bonded and
conforms to best practices and standards in the industry.
   (C)   The City Council hereby authorizes the Mayor and/or City Clerk-
Treasurer to contract with a professional payroll contractor for the service of
processing and reporting all payroll preparations in accordance with AR Act 582
of 2015.
(Ord. 480, passed 8-17-15)
DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE
§ 36.15 PURPOSE OF POLICY.
   (A)   The city has a vital interest in providing for the safety and well
being of all employees and the public, and maintaining efficiency and
productivity in all of its operations. In fulfillment of its responsibilities,
the city is committed to the maintenance of a drug and alcohol free workplace.
   (B)   The city and certain employees who drive commercial motor vehicles are
subject to the requirements of federal statues and implementing regulations
issued by the Federal Highway Administration of the U.S. Department of
Transportation. However, certain city employees who perform safety and
security-sensitive functions are covered by the foregoing provisions. In
addition, the city has an interest in maintaining the efficiency, productivity
and well being of employees who do not perform safety or security-sensitive
functions. In order to further provide a safe environment for city employees
and the public, the city has adopted the following Drug-Free Workplace policy
for those employees who are not covered by federal law. This policy does not
govern or apply to employees who are subject to testing as commercial motor
vehicle operators under the foregoing federal law and regulations. They are
governed by a separate policy enacted pursuant to that legislation.
(Ord. 345, passed 10-20-03)
§ 36.16 POLICY STATEMENT.
   (A)   All employees must be free from the effects of illegal drugs and
alcohol during scheduled working hours as a condition of employment. Drinking
alcoholic beverages or using drugs while on duty, on city property, in city
vehicles, during breaks or at lunch, or working or reporting for work when
impaired by or under the influence of alcohol, or when drugs and/or drug
metabolites are present in the employees’s system, is strictly prohibited and
grounds for disciplinary action up to and including immediate discharge. In
addition, employees are subject to disciplinary action up to and including
immediate discharge for the unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensation,
possession, concealment or sale of alcohol or drugs while on duty, on city
property, in city vehicles, during breaks or at lunch.
   (B)   The city reserves the right to require employees to submit to urine
drug testing and Breathalyzer alcohol testing to determine usage of drugs and/
or alcohol as provided below. Employees must submit to all required tests. Any
employee who refuses to submit to any required test without a valid medical
explanation will be subject to immediate discharge. Refusal to execute a
required consent form, refusal to cooperate regarding the collection of
samples, or submission or attempted submission of an adulterated or substituted
urine sample shall be deemed refusal to submit to a required test.
(Ord. 345, passed 10-20-03)
§ 36.17 SAFETY AND SECURITY-SENSITIVE POSITIONS DEFINED.
   (A)   A safety-sensitive position is one in which a momentary lapse of
attention may result in grave and immediate danger to the public. The following
positions are considered safety sensitive:
      (1)   Law enforcement officers who carry firearms and jailers;
      (2)   Motor vehicle operators who carry passengers, including, but not
limited to, ambulance drivers, bus or jitney drivers, and drivers who transport
other city employees;
      (3)   Fire department employees who directly participate in fire-fighting
activities;
      (4)   Medical personnel with direct patient care responsibilities
including physicians, nurses, surgical scrub technicians, emergency medical
technicians and trainees, medical and nurses assistants;
      (5)   Mechanics, welders and sheet metal workers who work on vehicles
designed to carry passengers such as buses, ambulance, police cruisers, vans
and the like; and
      (6)   Other employees whose duties meet the definition of safety or
security-sensitive after consultation with and approval by the Arkansas
Municipal League.
   (B)   A security-sensitive position includes:
      (1)   Any police officer, jailer, police dispatcher and police department
employee, including clerical workers, having access to information concerning
ongoing criminal investigations and criminal cases, which information could, if
revealed, compromise, hinder or prejudice the investigation or prosecution of
the case.
      (2)   The city also considers law enforcement officers as holding
security-sensitive positions by reason of their duty to enforce the laws
pertaining to the use of illegal substances. Officers who themselves use such
substances may be unsympathetic to the enforcement of the law and subject to
blackmail and bribery.
(Ord. 345, passed 10-20-03)
§ 36.18 DRUG-FREE AWARENESS PROGRAM/EDUCATION AND TRAINING.
   (A)   The city will establish a Drug-Free Awareness Program to assist
employees to understand and avoid the perils of drug and alcohol abuse. The
city will use this program in an ongoing educational effort to prevent and
eliminate drug and alcohol abuse that may affect the workplace.
   (B)   The city’s Drug-Free Awareness Program will inform employees about:
      (1)   The dangers of drug and alcohol abuse in the workplace;
      (2)   The city’s policy of maintaining a drug and alcohol free workplace;
      (3)   The availability of drug and alcohol treatment, counseling and
rehabilitation programs; and
      (4)   The penalties that may be imposed upon employees for drug and
alcohol abuse violations.
   (C)   As part of the Drug-Free Awareness Program, the city shall provide
educational materials that explain the city’s policies and procedures.
Employees shall be provided with information concerning the effects of alcohol
and drug use on an individual’s health, work and personal life; signs and
symptoms of an alcohol or drug problem; and available methods of intervening
when an alcohol or drug problem is suspected, including confrontation and/or
referral to management.
   (D)   Supervisors who may be asked to determine whether reasonable suspicion
exists to require an employee to undergo drug and/or alcohol testing shall
receive at least 60 minutes of training on alcohol misuse and 60 minutes of
training on drug use. The training shall cover the physical, behavioral,
speech, and performance indicators of probable alcohol misuse and drug use.
(Ord. 345, passed 10-20-03)
§ 36.19 PROHIBITED SUBSTANCES; LEGAL DRUGS; UNAUTHORIZED ITEMS.
   (A)   Prohibited substances.  Alcoholic beverages and drugs are considered
to be prohibited substances in the workplace. For purposes of this policy, the
term “drugs” includes controlled substances (as identified in Schedules I
through V of § 202 of the Controlled Substance Act, 21 U.S.C. § 812, and the
regulations promulgated thereunder, and defined in the Uniformed Controlled
Substance Act, A .C. § 5-64-201-216), including synthetic narcotics, designer
drugs, and prescription drugs, except prescription drugs approved by and used
in accordance with the directions of the employee’s physician.
   (B)   Legal drugs.  The appropriate use of prescription drugs and over-the-
counter medications is not prohibited. Any employee using a prescription drug
should consult with his/her physician and pharmacist regarding the effects of
the drug. Employees should read all labels carefully.
   (C)   Unauthorized items.  Employees may not have any unauthorized items in
their possession or in any area used by them or under their control.
Unauthorized items include, but are not limited to alcoholic beverages
containers and drug paraphernalia.
(Ord. 345, passed 10-20-03)
§ 36.20 USE OF ALCOHOL AND DRUGS; PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   All employees covered under this policy are subject to the following
prohibitions regarding the use of alcohol and drugs (controlled substances):
      (1)   Employees shall not report for duty or remain on duty while
impaired by the consumption of alcohol. An employee will be deemed to be
impaired by alcohol if that employee has a blood alcohol concentration of 0.04
or greater.
      (2)   Employees shall not consume alcohol while on duty.
      (3)   Employees required to undergo post-accident testing shall not use
alcohol for eight hours following the accident, or until they undergo a post-
accident alcohol test.
      (4)   Employees shall submit to an authorized drug or alcohol test.
      (5)   Employees shall not report for duty or remain on duty while under
the influence of any controlled substance, except when the use thereof is
pursuant to the instructions of a licensed physician who has advised the
employee that the effect of the substance on the employee does not pose a
significant risk of substantial harm to the employee or others in light of his/
her normal job duties.
   (B)   In addition, subject to disciplinary rules set forth below, employees
who are found to have an alcohol concentration of 0.02 or greater, but less
than 0.04, in any authorized alcohol test shall be removed from duty, and may
not return to duty until the start of the employee’s next regularly scheduled
shift, but not less than 24 hours following administration of the test.
   (C)   The foregoing rules shall apply to all employees and shall apply while
on duty, during periods when they are on breaks or lunch, or not performing
safety or security-sensitive functions.
(Ord. 345, passed 10-20-03)
§ 36.21WHEN DRUG AND ALCOHOL TESTING MAY BE REQUIRED OF ALL EMPLOYEES.
   Employees (and applicants) covered by this policy shall be required to
submit to urine testing for use of prohibited drugs and/or Breathalyzer alcohol
testing in the following circumstances:
   (A)   When the city has reasonable suspicion that an employee has violated
any of the above prohibitions regarding use of alcohol or drugs. For purposes
of this rule, reasonable suspicion shall be based on specific, contemporaneous,
articulable observations concerning the appearance, behavior, speech or body
odors of the employees. The required observations must be made by the
supervisor or city official or employee who is trained in detecting the signs
and symptoms of misuse of alcohol and drug use.
   (B)   As part of a pre-employment physical examination after a conditional
job offer has been made, a fitness for duty physical examination, or any other
lawful required periodic physical examination. Non-safety and non-security
sensitive positions will not be required to undergo a pre-employment drug or
alcohol test unless the applicant is otherwise required to undergo a pre-
employment physical examination after a conditional job offer has been extended
to the employee.
   (C)   When the city management has a reasonable suspicion based on
observations or credible information submitted to the city, that the employee
is currently using, impaired by or under the influence of drugs or alcohol.
   (D)   When an employee suffers an on-the-job injury or following a serious
or potentially serious accident or incident in which safety precautions were
violated, equipment or property was damaged, an employee or other person was
injured, or careless acts were performed by the employee. Such testing will be
required of non-safety sensitive employees only when such factors, when taken
alone or in combination with other factors, give rise to reasonable suspicion
that the employee may be under the influence of drugs or alcohol.
   (E)   When any prohibited drug or alcoholic beverage is found in an
employee’s possession.
   (F)   When the laboratory values in any authorized drug test indicated the
need for additional testing, as determined by the Medical Review Officer (MRO),
or where any authorized drug test must be canceled due to a collection, chain
of custody or other procedural problem.
(Ord. 345, passed 10-20-03)
§ 36.22WHEN DRUG AND ALCOHOL TESTING MAY BE REQUIRED OF EMPLOYEES HOLDING
SAFETY AND SECURITY-SENSITIVE POSITIONS.
   Employees in (and applicants for) safety-sensitive positions shall be
required to submit to urine testing for use of prohibited drugs and
Breathalyzer alcohol testing in the foregoing and in the following
circumstances:
   (A)   When a safety-sensitive employee is involved in an accident involving
a motor vehicle on a public road, and the employee’s position is safety-
sensitive because it involves driving a motor vehicle.
   (B)   Random testing for drugs (but not alcohol) will be conducted. In order
to treat all employees as equally as possible, and to maintain consistency in
the administration of its efforts to
maintain a drug-free workplace, random testing under this policy will be
governed by 49 U.S.C.
§ 31306 and implementing regulations to the extent that it is lawful and
feasible to do so. Further guidance must be found in “The Omnibus
Transportation Employee Testing Act of 1991 - Steps to Compliance for Arkansas
Municipalities,” published by the Arkansas Municipal League.
(Ord. 345, passed 10-20-03)
§ 36.23 DISCIPLINARY ACTION.
   (A)   Employees may be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including
discharge, for any of the following infractions:
      (1)   Refusal to submit to an authorized drug or alcohol test. Refusal to
submit to testing means that the employee fails to provide an adequate urine or
breath sample for testing without a valid medical explanation after he/she has
received notice of the requirements to be tested, or engages in conduct that
clearly obstructs the testing process. Refusal to submit to testing includes,
but is not limited to, refusal to execute any required consent forms, refusal
to cooperate regarding the collection of samples, and/or submission or
attempted submission of an adulterated or substituted urine sample.
      (2)   Drinking alcoholic beverages or using drugs while on duty, on city
property, in city vehicles, during breaks or at lunch.
      (3)   Unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensation, possession,
concealment or sale of any prohibited substance, including an alcoholic
beverage, while on duty, on city property, in city vehicles, during breaks or
at lunch.
      (4)   Any criminal drug statute conviction and/or failure to notify the
city of such conviction within five days.
      (5)   Refusal to cooperate in a search.
      (6)   Having an alcohol concentration of 0.04% or greater in any
authorized alcohol test.
      (7)   Testing positive for drugs and/or their metabolites in any
authorized drug test.
   (B)   Although the foregoing infractions will ordinarily result in discharge
regardless of the employee’s position, the city reserves the right to consider
extenuating circumstances and impose lesser discipline when such action is
deemed appropriate.
(Ord. 345, passed 10-20-03)
§ 36.24 EMPLOYMENT STATUS PENDING RECEIPT OF TEST RESULTS.
   In addition to appropriate disciplinary measures, including suspension,
which may be taken in response to the incident or course of conduct which gave
rise to the test, the city reserves the right to
decide whether the incident or course of conduct prompting the test is of such
a nature that the employee should not be put back to work until the test
results are received. If such a decision is made, the employee will be
suspended without pay. Where the test result is negative, the employee will be
reinstated with back pay, provided the employee has not been given an
appropriate disciplinary suspension for violation of another work rule which
also covers the time missed waiting for the test results.
(Ord. 345, passed 10-20-03)
§ 36.99 PENALTY.
   A fine not to exceed $25 will be levied against violators of §
36.01.
(Ord. 223, passed 9-13-93)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50. SOLID WASTE
      
51. WATER AND SEWERS
      
52. WELLHEAD PROTECTION
      
53. STORM WATER REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 50: SOLID WASTE
Section
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Garbage, trash to be collected; fees
   
50.03   Garbage collection practices
   
50.04   Burning, dumping garbage prohibited
   
50.05   City not obligated to pick up refuse or debris from construction, tree
removal
   
50.06   Time and placement of Waste Management garbage containers
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. All rejected food waste, and every accumulation of animal, fruit,
or vegetable matter used or intended for food, or intended for the preparation,
used in cooking, dealing in, or storing of meat, fish, fowl, fruits, and/or
vegetables.
   RUBBISH AND TRASH. Refuse other than foodstuffs, such as paper, clothing,
grass, leaves, wood, ashes, tin and glass, and all such rubbish must be placed
in a separate container and distinct from container containing garbage.
(Ord. 193, passed 5-13-91)
§ 50.02 GARBAGE, TRASH TO BE COLLECTED; FEES.
   (A)   From and after the passage and approval of this chapter, all garbage,
waste, trash and refuse in the city shall be collected regularly by the
employees of the city or its duly authorized employees, who shall collect fees
as set out in the following schedule:
      (1)   A fee of $14.75 per month for curbside pickup is hereby levied for
each dwelling house or dwelling unit occupied as a residence.
      (2)   All business and/or commercial customers shall be charged for the
collection of garbage and/or trash at the following monthly rates:
   Schools, restaurants, grocery stores   $47.00 per dumpster (daily service)
and convenience stores
   Churches and small businesses   33.50 per dumpster (twice weekly)
   Bulk pickup/businesses   20.00 no dumpster (as needed)
   All other businesses   10.00 no dumpster (as needed)
   Apartments    8.00 per unit (twice weekly)
   (B)   The fees herein provided for shall be payable in advance and shall be
billed on the water and sewer bill. The failure to pay the fees herein provided
shall be grounds for discontinuing water and sewer service to the customers so
failing to pay.
(Ord. 193, passed 5-13-91; Am. Ord. 194, passed 8-12-91; Am. Ord. 249, passed
12-16-96; Am. Ord. 328, passed 11-18-02; Am. Ord. 363, passed 11-15-04; Am.
Ord. 398, passed 8-20-07; Am. Ord. 445, passed 6-18-12; Am. Ord. 545, passed
11-21-22) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.03 GARBAGE COLLECTION PRACTICES.
   (A)   Garbage shall be collected from private residences by the city at
least once each week during the months of October 1 to May 1, and at least
twice each week during the remaining months, and daily from businesses as
indicated on the chart.
   (B)   The occupants of every private and business building shall provide
suitable water and fly-tight metallic can/cans made of substantial material
with tight fitting covers for holding of garbage, and shall be placed at a
point on the premises where the garbage collector can have access to same.
Garbage cans must not be larger than 20 gallons capacity, and shall have
handles suitable as aids in loading the cans.
   (C)   All garbage must be drained of liquid substances before same is placed
in garbage can.
(Ord. 193, passed 5-13-91)
§ 50.04 BURNING, DUMPING GARBAGE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to burn any
garbage except in incinerators that have been approved by the Fire Department.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to dump or
throw garbage, trash, refuse, leaves or any accumulation of same on any vacant
lot, street, or alley in the city.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to burn
anything including but not limited to garbage, leaves, refuse, sticks, trees,
limbs or other rubbish whenever there is a "burn ban" in effect for Jefferson
County, Arkansas and this prohibition shall include incinerators as mentioned
in division (A).
(Ord. 193, passed 5-13-91; Ord. 559, passed 11-18-24)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.05 CITY NOT OBLIGATED TO PICK UP REFUSE OR DEBRIS FROM CONSTRUCTION, TREE
REMOVAL.
   It is distinctly provided that this chapter does not in any way obligate
city employees or city trucks to clean or pick up refuse or debris resulting
from construction on property where buildings are being repaired or under
construction, nor wood nor limbs resulting from removal of trees on private
property.
(Ord. 193, passed 5-13-91) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.06 TIME AND PLACEMENT OF WASTE MANAGEMENT GARBAGE CONTAINERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to place the Waste Management or other garbage
collection device at curbside more than 24 hours before the regularly scheduled
pickup day.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to leave the Waste Management or other garbage
collection device within 20 feet of curbside more than 24 hours after the
regularly scheduled pickup day.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to place the Waste Management or other garbage
collection device in any city street.
(Ord. 336, passed 4-17-03) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty is
otherwise provided shall be subject to the penalty in §
10.99.
   (B)   Whoever fails to pay garbage pickup charges and is delinquent three
months therefor shall be fined $25 on a first offense, and $50 for a second or
subsequent offense.
   (C)   For violations of §
50.06, the penalties shall be as follows:
         First offense            Written warning
         Second offense            $25 fine
         Third offense            $50 fine
         Each additional offense      Mandatory court appearance
(Ord. 171, passed 5-11-87; Am. Ord. 336, passed 4-17-03)
CHAPTER 51: WATER AND SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Public sewer use required
   
51.03   Water meters required
   
51.04   Private wastewater disposal
   
51.05   Damaging or tampering with wastewater facilities
   
51.06   Right of entry of Superintendent
Cross-Connection Control Program
   
51.10   Intent; purpose
   
51.11   Definitions
   
51.12   Operating criteria
   
51.13   Facilities requiring backflow protection
   
51.14   Approval of backflow prevention devices
   
51.15   Non-compliance
   
51.16   Ownership
   
51.17   Installation and costs
   
51.18   Testing and maintenance
Building Sewers and Connections
   
51.20   Permit required
   
51.21   Costs borne by owner
   
51.22   Separate building sewers; old sewers
   
51.23   Construction specifications
   
51.24   Inspections
   
51.25   Excavations
   
51.26   Monitoring devices
Sewer Use Regulations
   
51.40   Discharges of unpolluted water
   
51.41   Prohibited discharges
   
51.42   Limitations on discharges
   
51.43   Hazardous conditions
   
51.44   City's authority over unlawful discharges
   
51.45   Grease, oil and sand interceptors
   
51.46   Maintenance of preliminary treatment facilities
   
51.47   Measurements, tests and analyses
Rates and Charges
   
51.60   Establishment of rates
   
51.61   Excessive strength charges
   
51.62   Charges for extraneous flows
   
51.63   Toxic pollutants charges
   
51.64   Debt service
   
51.65   Total user charge
   
51.66   Billing
   
51.67   Records
   
51.68   Review and revision of rate ordinance
   
51.69   Notification of users
   
51.70   Review of user charges
   
51.71   Restriction of Amendments
 
   
51.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory conditions in
five days at 20° C., expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING. Residential and commercial structures which enclose a source of
wastewater.
   BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and convey it to the building sewer, beginning
five feet (1.5 meters) outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal, also called house connection.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat, or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if is properly
treated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection system.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, and serving of foods.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastewater from industrial processes, trade, or
business as distinct from domestic or sanitary wastes.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, that discharge into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other body
of surface water or groundwater.
   MAY. Is permissive.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ions concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions, in grams, per liter of solution.
Neutral water, for example, has a pH value of 7 and a hydrogen-ion
concentration of 10-7.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The waste from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particles greater than 1/2 inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A common sewer controlled by a governmental agency or public
utility.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that carries liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions together
with minor quantities of ground, storm, and surface waters that are not
admitted intentionally.
   SEWAGE. The spent water of a community. The preferred term is WASTEWATER.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater.
   SHALL. Is mandatory.
   SLUG. Any discharge of wastewater which in concentration of any given
constituent or in quality of flow exceeds for 15 minutes more than five times
the average 24-hour concentration or flow during normal operation.
   STORM DRAIN or STORM SEWER. A drain or sewer for conveying water,
groundwater subsurface water, or unpolluted water from any source.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of wastewater facilities of the city or
its authorized deputy, agent, or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Total suspended matter that either floats on the surface
of or is in suspension in water, wastewater, or other liquids, and that is
removable by laboratory filtering as prescribed in “Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater” and referred to as nonfilterable residue.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect
or water that would not cause violation of receiving water quality standards
and would not be benefited by discharge to the sanitary sewers and wastewater
treatment facilities provided.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community. From the standpoint of source,
it may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment, and processes required to
collect, carry away, and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of
the effluent.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes, and sludge. Sometimes used synonymous
with “waste treatment plant” or “wastewater treatment plant” or “water
pollution control plant.”
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently.
(Ord. 198, passed 11-11-91)
§ 51.02 PUBLIC SEWER USE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited on public or private property within the city or in any area under
the jurisdiction of said city, any human or animal excrement, garbage, or
objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
city or in any area under the jurisdiction of said city, any wastewater or
other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter. The issuance of a valid
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit covering such discharges
into a natural outlet shall be considered as meeting all requirements of this
section.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy vault, cesspool, or other facility intended or used for the
disposal of wastewater.
   (D)   The owner(s) of all houses, buildings, or properties for human
occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes situated within the city
and abutting on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is now
located or may in the future be located a public sanitary sewer of the city, is
hereby required at the owner(s) expense to install suitable toilet facilities
therein, and to connect such facilities either through a septic tank or
directly to the proper public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter, within 90 days of official notice to do so, provided that the public
sewer is within 300 feet of the building.
(Ord. 198, passed 11-11-91) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.03 WATER METERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   The owner of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes, situated in a location
that would require connection to the sewer system in accordance with this
chapter is hereby required at its expense to have installed a water meter for
each said house, building or property within 45 days after date of notice from
the Water and Sewer Commission.
   (B)   The City Council sets the following rates for installation of water
meters:
      (1)   Residential   $300.00
      (2)   Commercial   $300.00
(Ord. 81, passed 1-13-75; Am. Ord. 344, passed 10-20-03) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.04 PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of
§
51.02(D), the building sewer shall be connected to a private wastewater
disposal system complying with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Before commencement of construction of a private wastewater disposal
system the owner(s) shall first obtain a written permit signed by the
Superintendent. The application for such permit shall be made on a form
furnished by the city, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans,
specifications, and construction permits approved by the Arkansas Department of
Health. The minimum lot area for single-family residence shall be in accordance
with current Arkansas Department of Health regulations. A permit and inspection
fee of $10 shall be paid to the city at the time the application is filed.
   (C)   A permit for a private wastewater disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
Superintendent. The Superintendent shall be allowed to inspect the work at any
stage of construction, and in any event, the applicant for the permit shall
notify the Superintendent when the work is ready for final inspection, and
before any underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made
within 48 hours of receipt of notice by the Superintendent.
   (D)   The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private wastewater
disposal system shall comply with all recommendations approved by the Arkansas
Department of Health. No septic tank shall be permitted to discharge to any
natural outlet.
   (E)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private wastewater disposal system, as provided in §
51.02(D), a direct connection from the building, or septic tank, shall be made
to the public sewer within 90 days in compliance with this chapter. The
requirements of this section shall not apply to owners discharging such sewage
under the provisions of a valid National Pollution Discharge Elimination
permit.
   (F)   The owner(s) shall operate and maintain the private wastewater
disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the
city.
   (G)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the County Sanitarian.
(Ord. 198, passed 11-11-91) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.05 DAMAGING OR TAMPERING WITH WASTEWATER FACILITIES.
   (A)   No person(s) shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the wastewater facilities.
   (B)   No unauthorized person shall cover any manhole on a public sewer with
earth or paving, or otherwise render it inaccessible.
   (C)   No unauthorized person shall remove the earth cover from a public
sewer so that less than two feet of earth cover remains over the pipe bells.
Approval to remove subsequent cover shall require written consent from the
Superintendent.
(Ord. 198, passed 11-11-91) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.06 RIGHT OF ENTRY OF SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   The Superintendent and authorized employees bearing proper credentials
shall be permitted to enter all properties for the purpose of inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling and testing in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. The Superintendent or designated representatives
shall have no authority to inquire into any processes, including metallurgical,
chemical, oil, refining, ceramic, paper, or other industries beyond that point
having a direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (A) above, the Superintendent or authorized employees shall observe
all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company. The
company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the city employees. The
city shall indemnify the company against liability claims and demands for
personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and growing out
of gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by negligence
or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required in §
51.47.
   (C)   The Superintendent and authorized employees bearing proper credentials
shall be permitted to enter all private properties through which the city holds
a negotiated easement for the purpose of, but not limited to, inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of
the sewage works lying within the easement. All entry and subsequent work, if
any, on said easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the
duly negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. 198, passed 11-11-91)
CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL PROGRAM
§ 51.10 INTENT; PURPOSE.
   (A)   Intent. In compliance with the State of Arkansas Rules and Regulation
Pertaining to Public Water Systems, Section VII.E, the city finds it necessary
for the health, safety and welfare of the people served by the water division
of the city utilities department to adopt cross-connection control standards
which establish the requirements for the design, construction and maintenance
of connections to the public water supply. These standards are supplemental to
and do not supersede or modify the Arkansas State Plumbing Code and its latest
revisions under which the city operates. This subchapter pertains to commercial
and industrial establishments only. Single-family, residential dwelling units,
unless involved in commercial operations, are exempt from the requirements of
this subchapter except where they fall under the purview of the Arkansas State
Plumbing Code.
   (B)   Purpose. The purposes of this subchapter are:
      (1)   To provide for the protection of the public potable water supply.
      (2)   To isolate at the service connection any actual or potential
pollution or contamination within the consumer's premises and
      (3)   To provide a continuous, systematic and effective program of cross-
connection control.
(Ord. 257, passed 10-20-97)
§ 51.11 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BACKFLOW. A hydraulic condition, caused by a difference in pressures, in
which non-potable water or other fluids flow into a potable water system.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTOR. A device or means to prevent backflow.
   DOUBLE-CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY (DC). A complete assembly meeting applicable
AWWA Standards and the requirements of the Arkansas State Plumbing Code
consisting of two internally loaded, independently operating check valves
between two tightly closing resilient-seated shutoff valves, with four properly
placed resilient seated test cocks.
   REDUCED-PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY (RP). A complete
assembly meeting applicable AWWA Standards and the requirements of the Arkansas
State Plumbing Code consisting of a hydraulically operating, mechanically
independent differential relief
valve located between two independently operating, internally loaded check
valves that are located between two tightly closing resilient seated shutoff
valves with four properly placed resilient-seated test cocks.
(Ord. 257, passed 10-20-97)
§ 51.12 OPERATING CRITERIA.
   The City Water Department's Cross-Connection Control Program Handbook of
Policies and Procedures is hereby incorporated into this subchapter by
reference. It is the primary responsibility of the water purveyor and/or the
city to evaluate the hazards inherent in supplying a consumer's water system;
i.e., determine whether solid, liquid or gaseous pollutants or contaminants
are, or may be, handled on the consumer's premise in such a manner as to
possibly permit contamination of the public water system. When a hazard or
potential hazard to the public water system is found on the consumer's premise,
the consumer shall be required to install an approved backflow prevention
assembly at each public water service connection to the premise in accordance
with this subchapter's requirements. The type of device shall depend on the
degree of hazard involved. The degree of hazard shall be as described in AWWA
Manual M-14 or as described below. Where more than one type of protection is
possible, the actual method utilized shall be at the discretion of the water
purveyor and/or the city after physical inspection of the hazard.
   (A)   In the case of any premise where there is an auxiliary water supply,
the public water system shall be protected from the possibility of backflow by
a reduced-pressure principle backflow prevention assembly (RP) at the service
connection.
   (B)   In the case of any premise where there is water or a substance that
would be objectionable but not hazardous to health if introduced into the
public water system, the public water system shall be protected by an approved
double-check valve assembly.
   (C)   In the case of any premise where there is any material dangerous to
health which is handled in such a fashion as to create an actual or potential
hazard to the public water system, the public water system shall be protected
by an approved reduced-pressure principle backflow prevention assembly (RP).
   (D)   In case of any premise where there are "uncontrolled" cross-
connections, either actual or potential, the public water system shall be
protected by an approved reduced-pressure principle assembly (RP) at the
service connection.
   (E)   In the case of any premise where, because of security requirements or
other prohibitions or restrictions, it is impossible or impractical to make a
complete cross-connection survey, the public water system shall be protected by
the installation of an approved reduced-pressure principle-backflow prevention
assembly (RP) at the service connection.
(Ord. 257, passed 10-20-97) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.13 FACILITIES REQUIRING BACKFLOW PROTECTION.
   (A)   The following is a partial list of facilities which may require
reduced-pressure principal backflow prevention assemblies (RP) at the service
connection. Requirements are based upon the degree of hazard afforded the
public potable water system.
      (1)   Automatic car washes.
      (2)   Auxiliary water systems.
      (3)   Exterminators.
      (4)   Facilities with boilers or chilled water systems.
      (5)   Fire systems containing chemicals.
      (6)   Hospitals, medical clinics, dental clinics, health clinics,
sanitariums, morgues, mortuaries, autopsy facilities, nursing and convalescent
homes.
      (7)   Irrigation systems and lawn sprinkler systems.
      (8)   Laboratories (industrial, commercial, photography, medical and
school).
      (9)   Commercial laundries.
      (10) Radiator and battery shops.
      (11) Restricted, classified or other facilities closed to inspection.
      (12) Sand, gravel and concrete plants.
      (13) Wastewater treatment plants, pump stations and storm water pumping
facilities.
      (14) Marinas and dockside facilities.
      (15) Commercial swimming pools.
      (16) Commercial poultry farms and commercial farms using pesticides and
herbicides.
      (17) Establishments holding livestock for sale or slaughter.
      (18) Others (with suspected high hazards).
   (B)   The following is a partial list of facilities which may require double
check valve assemblies:
      (1)   Apartment buildings.
      (2)   Beauty parlors and barber shops.
      (3)   Hotels and motels.
      (4)   Restaurants, cafeterias, fast-food marts or other food handling
facilities.
      (5)   Tall buildings.
      (6)   Fire sprinkler systems (without chemicals).
      (7)   Others (with suspected medium hazards).
(Ord. 257, passed 10-20-97) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.14 APPROVAL OF BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES.
   Any backflow prevention assembly required herein shall be a type in
compliance with applicable AWWA Standards and the Arkansas State Plumbing Code.
(Ord. 257, passed 10-20-97) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.15 NON-COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   In emergency situations when the public potable water supply is being
contaminated or is in immediate danger of contamination, the water service will
be discontinued by the water purveyor and/or superintendent.
   (B)   No water service connection shall be installed on the premises of any
consumer unless the public potable water system is protected as required by
this subchapter.
   (C)   Delivery of water to premises of any consumer may be discontinued by
the water purveyor and/or the city if any protective device required by this
article has not been installed, or is defective, or has been removed or
bypassed. Discontinued water service shall not be resumed until conditions at
the consumer's premise have been abated or corrected to the satisfaction of the
water purveyor and/or superintendent.
   (D)   Upon discovery of a violation of this subchapter, written notice shall
be given to the consumer. If violations are not corrected by date and time as
stated on the notice, the water supply will be discontinued and the violation
may be referred to the administrative authority for action.
   (E)   For the purpose of making any inspections or discharging the duties
imposed by this article, the water purveyor and/or the city, the State Health
Department and/or plumbing inspector shall have the right to enter upon the
premises of any consumer. Each consumer, as a condition of the continued
delivery to his premises of water from the public water supply, shall be
considered as having stated his consent to the entry upon his premise of the
water purveyor and/or superintendent, the State Health
Department and/or plumbing inspector for the purpose stated herein.
(Ord. 257, passed 10-20-97) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.16 OWNERSHIP.
   The consumer shall purchase, own and maintain all backflow prevention
assemblies installed at the point of delivery to the consumer's water system.
(Ord. 257, passed 10-20-97) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.17 INSTALLATION AND COSTS.
   Customers of the city water division requiring backflow prevention devices
shall pay all costs associated with installation of the appropriate size and
type of device under private contract. New installations shall be completed
prior to the "final" plumbing inspection so that the device can be included as
part of the inspection. Assemblies shall be installed above ground in a
location that is readily accessible for maintenance and testing and should be
located not less than 12 inches nor more than 30 inches above ground.
(Ord. 257, passed 10-20-97) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.18 TESTING AND MAINTENANCE.
   The consumer will be responsible for the annual testing of the backflow
prevention assembly by contract with a certified backflow assembly tester. The
consumer will annually furnish the water purveyor and/or the city with a
certificate of such satisfactory testing by the anniversary date of the
installation of the assembly. In instances where the water purveyor, the city
and/or the plumbing inspector deems the hazard to be great enough, testing may
be required at more frequent intervals, costs of which would be borne by the
consumer. Any maintenance fees required as a result of inspections or testing
shall be paid by the consumer through private contract. Records of inspections,
testing or repairs shall be kept by the water purveyor and/or the city and made
available to the State Health Department.
(Ord. 257, passed 10-20-97) Penalty, see §
10.99
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 51.20 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No authorized person(s) shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the Superintendent.
   (B)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits: (1) for
residential and commercial service and (2) for service to establishments
producing industrial wastes. In either case, the owner(s) or his agent shall
make application on a special form furnished by the city. Their permit
application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other
information considered pertinent in judgement of the Superintendent. A permit
and inspection fee of $7.50 for residential or commercial permits, and $25.00
for industrial permits shall be paid to the city at the time the application is
filed.
(Ord. 198, passed 11-11-91) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.21 COSTS BORNE BY OWNER.
   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner(s). The owner(s) shall indemnify the
city from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by
the installation of the building sewer.
(Ord. 198, passed 11-11-91)
§ 51.22 SEPARATE BUILDING SEWERS; OLD SEWERS.
   (A)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another through an
adjoining alley, court yard, or driveway, the front building sewer may be
extended to the rear building and the whole considered as a one building sewer.
   (B)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination, and tested by the Superintendent, to meet
all requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 198, passed 11-11-91)
§ 51.23 CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   All new sewers and related construction work must be properly designed
and constructed. For all collectors, interceptors, building sewers, and septic
tanks the size, slope, alignment, material of construction, and the methods
used for excavating, placing, jointing, testing, and backfilling, shall all
conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the city and the state. In the absence of
code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specification of the American
Society of Testing Materials (ASTM,) and Water Pollution Control Federation
(WPCF) Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
   (B)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharge to the building sewer.
   (C)   No person(s) shall make connections of roof foundation drains, area
drains, or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a building sewer
or building drain which in turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public
sanitary sewer.
   (D)   All connection into the public sewer shall conform to the requirements
of the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of
the city, or the procedures set forth in appropriate specification of the
(ASTM) and (WPCF) Manual of Practice No. 9. All such connections shall be made
gastight and watertight and shall be verified by proper testing.
(Ord. 198, passed 11-11-91) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.24 INSPECTIONS.
   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Superintendent
when the building sewer (and septic tank) is ready for inspection and
connection to the public sewer. The connection and testing shall be made under
the supervision of the Superintendent or his representative.
(Ord. 198, passed 11-11-91)
§ 51.25 EXCAVATIONS.
   All excavations for the building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and warning lights so as to protect the public from
hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in
the course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
(Ord. 198, passed 11-11-91) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.26 MONITORING DEVICES.
   (A)   Any person responsible for discharges through a building sewer
carrying industrial wastes shall, at their own expense:
      (1)   Install an accessible and safely located control manhole;
      (2)   Install meters and other appurtenances to facilitate observation,
sampling, and measurements of the waste; and
      (3)   Maintain the equipment and facilities.
   (B)   Such control manhole, meters, and other monitoring appurtenances shall
be lockable, and accessible to the city.
(Ord. 198, passed 11-11-91) Penalty, see §
51.99
SEWER USE REGULATIONS
§ 51.40 DISCHARGES OF UNPOLLUTED WATER.
   (A)   No person(s) shall discharge or cause to be discharged any unpolluted
waters such as stormwater, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, or
cooling water to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as storm sewers or to a natural
outlet approved by the city.
(Ord. 198, passed 11-11-91) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.41 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   No person(s) shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      (A)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas.
   (B)   Any waters containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids, or gases in
sufficient quantity either singly or by interaction with other wastes, to
injure or interfere with any waste treatment process, constitute a hazard to
humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in the
receiving waters of the wastewater treatment plant.
   (C)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 6.0 or in excess of 9.0,
or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment, and personnel of the wastewater works.
   (D)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the wastewater facilities such as, but not limited to,
ashes, bones, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar,
plastic, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, egg shells, etc.,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
   (E)   No substance will be added which would preclude the selection of the
most cost effective alternative for wastewater treatment and sludge disposal.
(Ord. 198, passed 11-11-91) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.42 LIMITATIONS ON DISCHARGES.
   (A)   The following described substances, materials, water, or waste shall
be limited in discharges to municipal systems to concentrations or quantities
which will not harm either the sewers, wastewater treatment process or
equipment, will not have an adverse effect on the receiving stream, or will not
otherwise endanger lives, limb, public property, or constitute a nuisance. The
Superintendent may set limitations more stringent than the limitations
established in the regulations below if in his opinion such limitations are
necessary to meet the above objectives. In forming his opinion as to the
acceptability, the Superintendent will give consideration to such factors as
the quantity of subject waste in relation to flows and velocities in the
sewers, materials of construction of the sewer, the wastewater treatment
process employed, capacity of the wastewater treatment plant, and other
pertinent factors. The limitations or restrictions on materials or
characteristics of waste or wastewater discharge to the sanitary sewer which
shall not be exceeded without prior approval of the Superintendent are as
follows:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F. (65°C.)
      (2)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or oils, in excess
of 50 mg/l or containing substances which solidify or become viscous at
temperatures between 32°F. and 150°F. (0 to 65°C.)
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of 3/4 horsepower
(0.5 6KW) or greater shall be subject to the review and approval of the city.
      (4)   Any waters or waste containing strong acid iron pickling waste or
concentrated plating solutions, whether neutralized or not, which are capable
of causing any damage or corrosion in the sewers or the sewage treatment plant
or interfering with the sewage treatment process.
      (5)   Any waters or waste exerting an excessive chlorine requirement, to
such a degree that any such material received in the composite sewage at the
sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established by the city for such
materials.
      (6)   Any waters or waste containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the city as necessary, after treatment of the composite sewage,
to meet the requirements of the state, federal or other public agencies of
jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters.
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life of
concentration as may exceed limits established by the city in compliance with
applicable state or federal regulations.
      (8)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentration or inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate.)
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye
wastes, and vegetable tanning solution).
         (c)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of waste constituting
“slugs” as defined in §
51.01.
      (9)   Any waters or waste containing concentrations of materials,
elements and/or compound soluble or insoluble in concentration that in any way
may be harmful to the wastewater treatment facilities, the receiving stream
and/or the environment.
      (10) Waters or waste containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed or are
amenable to treatment only to such a degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters.
      (11) Specific attention should be given to toxic materials and heavy
metals. These materials constitute an immediate hazard to humans, animals and
aquatic life and, in addition, may have cumulative effects. Dilution of such
materials in lieu of treatment (removal) is not an acceptable policy.
   (B)   No persons shall discharge or cause to be discharged materials which
exert to cause BOD in excess of 250 mg/l, suspended solids in excess of 250 mg/
l, or oil or grease in excess of 50 mg/l, without prior approval of the
superintendent and without paying an abnormal sewage surcharge.
(Ord. 198, passed 11-11-91) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.43 HAZARDOUS CONDITIONS.
   The storage of any material in areas draining into the city sewer which may
create a hazard to the sewage works or treatment processes, or constitute a
hazard to human beings or animals, or the receiving stream shall be subject to
review by the Superintendent. He may require reasonable safeguards to prevent
discharge or leakage of such materials into the sewers.
(Ord. 198, passed 11-11-91)
§ 51.44 CITY'S AUTHORITY OVER UNLAWFUL DISCHARGES.
   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be discharged, to
the public sewers,
which water contains the substances or possess the characteristics enumerated
in §
51.42(A), and which in the judgement of the Superintendent may have a
deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment, or receiving
water, or which otherwise may create a hazard to life or constitute a public
nuisance, the city may:
   (A)   Reject the waste:
   (B)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the
public sewers in accordance with an approved implementation schedule; and/or
   (C)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge. If the
city permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows, the design and
installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject to requirements of
all applicable codes, ordinances and laws, and U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency guidelines for pretreatment; and/or
   (D)   Require that a wastewater effluent retention basin be provided of
adequate volume to insure that slugs of concentrated pollutants are not
discharged into the public sewer. If the city requires the retention of
wastewater effluent, the design shall be subject to the review and approval of
the city.
(Ord. 198, passed 11-11-91)
§ 51.45 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand or other
harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be required for
private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type
and capacity approved by the Superintendent and shall be located as to be
readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
(Ord. 198, passed 11-11-91) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.46 MAINTENANCE OF PRELIMINARY TREATMENT FACILITIES.
   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided for
any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and
effective operation by the owner at his own expense.
(Ord. 198, passed 11-11-91) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.47 MEASUREMENTS, TESTS AND ANALYSES.
   (A)   When directed to do so by the city, the owner of any property
discharging industrial waste shall have a qualified testing laboratory collect
a representative sample of his wastewater and have the appropriate physical,
chemical, and biological tests performed on this sample. Qualified testing
laboratories selected by the owner shall be acceptable to the city. The purpose
of such test shall be to determine the conformance of the wastewater
characteristics to this chapter. A report shall be made in writing to the city
by the laboratory stating the results in accordance with the provisions of
division (B) below.
   (B)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of “Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater,” published by the American Public Health Association and
shall be determined at the control manhole. Sampling shall be carried out by
customarily accepted methods to reflect the effect of constituents upon the
sewage works and to determine the existence of hazards to life, limb and
property.
(Ord. 198, passed 11-11-91) Penalty, see §
51.99
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 51.60 ESTABLISHMENT OF RATES.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes the rates to be charged for sewer services
furnished by the system, which the City Council finds and declares to be
reasonable and necessary, to be charged to all users who contribute wastewater
to the wastewater treatment works. The proceeds of such charges so derived will
be used for the purpose of operating and maintaining the system, including
paying for replacement (OM&R). “Replacement” is herein defined as expenditures
for obtaining and installing equipment, accessories or appurtenances during the
useful life of the system necessary to maintain the capacity and performance
for which it was designed and constructed.
   (B)   All users of the water system shall be charged a $13.30 meter service
fee per month, plus $5.21 for each 1,000 gallons of metered consumption per
month. This rate shall be effective on September 1, 2019.
   (C)   The user charge is based on the following formula:
      Total annual OM&R cost per 1,000 gal. = Total annual OM&R ($)
               No. of 1,000 gal. sold annually
   (D)   All rates for residential users shall be based on the average
consumption during the months of November through April.
   (E)   A 10% penalty will be added for late payment more than 15 days after
the date of billing.
(Ord. 200, passed 12-16-91; Am. Ord. 277, passed 8-30-99; Am. Ord. 383, passed
2-21-06; Am. Ord. 438, passed 5-16-11; Am. Ord. 444, passed 6-18-12; Am. Ord.
477, passed 2-17-15; Am. Ord. 495, passed 12-19-16; Am. Ord. 520, passed 8-19-
19)
§ 51.61 EXCESSIVE STRENGTH CHARGES.
   For any user, when the BOD exceeds 300 mg/l*, the suspended solids exceed
300 mg/l, or when other pollutant concentrations exceed the range of
concentrations of these pollutants in normal domestic
sewage, a surcharge shall be added to the basic charge. The surcharge shall be
calculated by the following formula:
      Cs = (Bc (B) + Sc (S) + Pc(P) ) Vu
      Symbols and definitions:
      Cs = A surcharge for wastewaters of excessive strength
      Bc = O&M cost for treatment of a unit of biochemical oxygen demand (BOD)
      B = Concentration of BOD from a user above a base level
      Sc = O&M cost for treatment of a unit of suspended solids (SS)
      S = Concentration of SS from a user above a base level
      Pc = O&M cost for treatment of a unit of any pollutant
      P = Concentration of any pollutant from a user above a base level
      Vu = Volume contribution from a user per unit of time
         *Maximum limit for average domestic waste.
(Ord. 200, passed 12-16-91)
§ 51.62 CHARGES FOR EXTRANEOUS FLOWS.
   The costs of operation and maintenance for all flows not directly
attributable to users (such as infiltration/inflow) shall be distributed among
the users on the same basis as operation and maintenance charges.
(Ord. 200, passed 12-16-91)
§ 51.63 TOXIC POLLUTANTS CHARGES.
   Each user that discharges any toxic pollutants which cause an increase in
the cost of managing the effluent or the sludge of the treatment works shall
pay for such increased costs.
(Ord. 200, passed 12-16-91)
§ 51.64 DEBT SERVICE.
   All users of the system shall be charged a fee, regardless of the amount of
the water used or wastewater discharged, for the debt retirement for the sewer
improvements and the bond coverage (“Debt Service”). The monthly fixed Debt
Service fee shall equal $8.40 for all users. All users of the system shall be
charged a fee based on the average amount of 1,000 (rounded to the nearest
1,000) gallons of water consumed during the prior months October through March.
The monthly Volume Debt Service fee shall equal ¢0.85 per 1,000 gallons of
water as calculated above.
(Ord. 200, passed 12-16-91; Am. Ord. 277, passed 8-30-99)
§ 51.65 TOTAL USER CHARGE.
   (A)   All users of the municipally owned wastewater treatment system shall
be charged a monthly fee for OM&R plus Volume Debt Service per 1,000 gallons,
based on the average number 1,000 (rounded to the nearest 1,000) gallons of
water consumed during October through March, plus Debt Service. The minimum
bill per user shall equal OM&R per 1,000 gallons plus Volume Debt Service per
1,000 gallons, plus the fixed Debt Service flat charge. Administrative Charge
is in included in the OM&R.
   Total Bill = OM&R          +  Vol. Debt Service   +  Fixed Debt Service
Charge
   Total Bill = $2.20 x gal./1,000* + ¢0.85 x gal./1,000 + $8.40
   Min. Monthly Bill = OM&R 1,000 gal.  +   Vol. Debt Service   +  Debt Service
Flat Charge
   Min. Bill = $2.20 + ¢0.85 + $8.40 = $11.45
      * Based on average monthly usage from October through March.
   (B)   Based on this methodology the City Council hereby finds that the
monthly sewer rates for the system shall be fixed as follows:
      (1)   Sewer rates, all users:
         First         1,000 gallons         $19.13
         All over   1,000 gallons      $5.17 per 1,000 gallons rounded to the
nearest 1,000 gallons
      (2)   New construction connection fee: $1,200
         Late fee:                     10% of balance owed
         Return check charge:               $30.00
(Ord. 200, passed 12-16-91; Am. Ord. 218, passed 2-8-93; Am. Ord. 221, passed
6-29-93; Am. Ord. 277, passed 8-30-99; Am. Ord. 373, passed 8-15-05; Am. Ord.
478, passed 2-17-15; Am. Ord. 520, passed 8-19-19)
§ 51.66 BILLING.
   Users will be billed on a monthly basis with payment due 20 days after the
date of billing. Users on metered water service will be billed on the same
notice as water charges and will be designated as a separate entry. Users of
the system not on metered water service will be billed monthly on an individual
notice for wastewater service at the rate established by the utility. Users
with delinquent accounts of 21 days from date of billing will be notified in
writing by the utility where, during which hours of the day, and before whom
disputed bills appropriately may be considered. If the user waives the
opportunity to be heard, the water and/or wastewater services will be
discontinued until such bill is paid.
(Ord. 200, passed 12-16-91; Am. Ord. 277, passed 8-30-99)
§ 51.67 RECORDS.
   A financial management system shall be established and maintained by the
city to document compliance with federal regulations pertaining to the
Revolving Loan. The system will account for all revenues generated and
expenditures for operation and maintenance and replacement.
(Ord. 200, passed 12-16-91; Am. Ord. 277, passed 8-30-99)
§ 51.68 REVIEW AND REVISION OF RATE ORDINANCE.
   The user charge ordinance shall be reviewed not less often than every year
regarding the wastewater contribution of users and user classes, the total
costs of the operation and maintenance and replacement of the treatment works,
and its approved user charge. The charges for users or user classes shall be
revised to accomplish the following:
   (A)   Maintain the proportionate distribution of operation and maintenance
costs among users and user classes;
   (B)   Generate sufficient revenue to pay the total costs necessary to the
proper operation and maintenance (including replacement) of the treatment works
and;
   (C)   Apply excess revenues collected from a class of users to the costs of
operation and maintenance attributable to that class for the next year, and the
rates shall be adjusted accordingly.
   (D)   Revenues from the project (e.g. sale of treatment related by-product;
lease of the land; sale of crops grown on the land purchased under the loan
agreement) shall be used to offset the cost for the OM&R. The city shall
proportionately reduce all user charges.
(Ord. 200, passed 12-16-91)
§ 51.69 NOTIFICATION OF USERS.
   Each user shall be notified at least annually, in conjunction with the
regular bill, of the sewer use rate and the portion of the user charges which
are attributable to wastewater treatment. Costs shall be broken down to show
the operation and maintenance costs attributable to that user.
(Ord. 200, passed 12-16-91; Am. Ord. 277, passed 8-30-99)
§ 51.70 REVIEW OF USER CHARGES.
   (A)   Any user who feels his user charge is unjust and inequitable may make
written application to the city requesting a review of his user charge. Said
written request shall, where necessary, show the actual or estimated average
flow and/or strength of his wastewater in comparison with the values upon which
the charge is based, including how the measurements or estimates were made.
   (B)   Review of the request shall be made by the Water and Sewer Committee
and if substantiated, the user charges for that user shall be recomputed based
on the revised flow and/or strength data and the new charges shall be
applicable to the next cycle/period.
(Ord. 200, passed 12-16-91)
§ 51.71 RESTRICTION ON AMENDMENTS.
   The Arkansas Department of Environmental Quality must approve any amendments
or changes to this ordinance so long as any Revolving Loan Fund proceeds
advanced by the Department to the city remain outstanding.
(Ord. 277, passed 8-30-99)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person found to be violating any provision of §§
51.01 through
51.47 except §
51.05 shall be served by the city with written notice stating the nature of the
violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction
thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notices,
permanently cease all violations.
      (2)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in division (A) above and/or any person who shall be found in
violating the provisions of §
51.05 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined in an amount not more than $500 for each violation, or double
that sum for each repetition of such offense or violation, and if the act is
continuous in nature, in any sum not more than $50 for each day that the same
is unlawfully continued.
      (3)   Any persons violating any of the provisions of §§
51.01 through
51.47 shall become liable to the city for any expense, loss, or damage
occasioned the city by reason of such violation.
      (4)   In cases of repeated violations, the city may revoke the permission
for discharge of wastes into the sewer system and effect the discontinuation of
water services, sewer services, or both.
(Ord. 198, passed 11-11-91)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation using the
water system and/or sewer system and being charged therefor to fail or refuse
to pay said charge. Any person so failing or refusing shall be deemed guilty of
a misdemeanor. (Ord. 65, passed 1-9-73; Am. Ord. 106, passed 6-12-78)
CHAPTER 52: WELLHEAD PROTECTION
Section
   
52.01   Title and purpose
   
52.02   Definitions
   
52.03   Wellhead protection zone
   
52.04   Permitted uses
   
52.05   Prohibited uses
   
52.06   Administration
§ 52.01 TITLE AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   This chapter shall be known as the “Wellhead Protection Ordinance.”
   (B)   The purpose of this chapter is to insure the provision of a safe and
sanitary drinking water supply for the city by the establishment of wellhead
protection zones surrounding the wellheads for all wells which are the supply
sources for the city water system and by designation and regulation of property
uses and conditions which may be maintained within such zones.
(Ord. 229, passed 10-10-94)
§ 52.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE OR MATERIALS. Any waste or material which because of its
quantity, concentration or physical, chemical or infectious characteristics
may:
      (1)   Cause or significantly contribute to an increase in mortality or an
increase in serious irreversible or incapacitating reversible illness; or
      (2)   Pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or
to the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of or
otherwise managed.
   REGULATORY AGENCY. Any governmental agency with jurisdiction over hazardous
waste as defined herein.
   SANITARY LANDFILL. A disposal site where solid wastes, including putrescible
wastes, or hazardous wastes, are disposed of on land by placing earth cover
thereon.
   WELLHEAD. The upper terminal of a well, including adapters, ports, seals,
valves and other attachments.
(Ord. 229, passed 10-10-94)
§ 52.03 WELLHEAD PROTECTION ZONE.
   There is hereby established a use district to be known as a wellhead
protection zone, identified and described as all the area within a circle the
center of which is the center of any city water supply wellhead and the radius
of which is 1320 feet, or any part thereof which the city has jurisdiction.
(Ord. 229, passed 10-10-94)
§ 52.04 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses shall be permitted within the wellhead protection zones:
   (A)   Any use permitted within existing agricultural, single-family
residential, multi-family residential, and commercial districts so long as uses
conform to the rules and regulations of the regulatory agencies.
   (B)   Any other open land use where any building located on the property is
incidental and accessory to the primary open land use.
(Ord. 229, passed 10-10-94)
§ 52.05 PROHIBITED USES.
   The following uses or conditions shall be and are hereby prohibited within
wellhead protection zones, whether or not such use or condition may otherwise
be ordinarily included as a part of a use permitted under §
52.04 unless such uses are approved or permitted by state and federal
regulatory agencies:
   (A)   Surface use or storage of hazardous material, including commercial use
of agricultural pesticides;
   (B)   Septic tanks or drain field appurtenant thereto;
   (C)   Impervious surfaces other than roofs of buildings and street, parking
lots, driveways and walks serving buildings permitted under §
52.04;
   (D)   Sanitary landfill;
   (E)   Hazardous waste disposal site;
   (F)   Stormwater infiltration basins;
   (G)   Underground storage tanks;
   (H)   Sanitary sewer lines within 100 feet of a wellhead.
(Ord. 229, passed 10-10-94) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.06 ADMINISTRATION.
   The policies and procedures for administration of any wellhead protection
zone established under this chapter, including without limitation those
applicable to non-conforming uses, exceptions, enforcement and penalties, shall
be the same as provided in the existing zoning ordinance for the city, as the
same is presently enacted or may from time to time be amended.
(Ord. 229, passed 10-10-94)
CHAPTER 53: STORM WATER REGULATIONS
Section
   
53.01   Introduction/purpose
   
53.02   Definitions
   
53.03   Applicability
   
53.04   Responsibility for administration
   
53.05   Storm Water Program Administrator
   
53.06   Permits
   
53.07   Permit fees
   
53.08   Severability
   
53.09   Responsibility
   
53.10   Prohibitions and permissible discharges
   
53.11   Suspension of MS4 access
   
53.12   Industrial or construction activity discharges
   
53.13   Monitoring of discharges
   
53.14   Requirement to prevent, control and reduce storm water pollutants by
the use of best management practices
   
53.15   Watercourse protection
   
53.16   Notification of spills or releases
   
53.17   Enforcement
   
53.18   Appeal of notice of violation
   
53.19   Enforcement measures after appeal
   
53.20   Violations deemed a public nuisance
   
53.21   Remedies not exclusive
 
   
53.99   Penalty
§ 53.01 INTRODUCTION/PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate discharges to the storm water
drainage system as required by federal and state law. This chapter establishes
methods for controlling the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
separate storm sewer system (MS4) in order to comply with requirements of the
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) Phase II permit
process. This chapter also sets forth the minimum requirements for construction
site activities and those activities associated with the excavation, grading,
and removal of trees and vegetation. The objective of this chapter is:
   (A)   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the municipal separate
storm sewer system by storm water discharges by any user.
   (B)   To regulate dust, silt and other construction site non-point
pollution.
   (C)   To prohibit illicit connections and discharges to the municipal
separate storm water system.
   (D)   To establish legal authority and a permitting fee to carry out
inspections, surveillance and monitoring procedures necessary to ensure
compliance with this chapter.
   (E)   To establish and collect fees for services provided for education,
maintenance and construction of the city's storm water systems.
(Ord. 379, passed 1-17-06)
§ 53.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED ENFORCEMENT AGENCY. Employees or designees of the City of White
Hall Program Administrator.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs).  Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, general good housekeeping practices, pollution prevention and
educational practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices
to prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants directly or indirectly to
storm water, receiving waters, or storm water conveyance systems. BMPs also
include treatment practices, operating procedures, and practices to control
site runoff, dust, spillage or leaks, sludge or water disposal, or drainage
from raw materials storage. Said BMPs shall comply with Arkansas Department of
Environmental Quality BMP's Practicing and Procedures Guidelines and the city's
BMPs practices and procedures as determined by the Program Administrator.
   CLEAN WATER ACT. The federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. § 1251
et seq.) and any subsequent amendments thereto.
   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES. Activities subject to a National Pollutant
Discharge Elimination Permit. These include construction projects resulting in
land disturbance including but not limited to clearing, grubbing, excavating,
and demolition.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any material, including any substance, waste, or
combination thereof, which because of its quantity, concentration, or physical,
chemical, or infectious characteristics may cause, or significantly contribute
to, a substantial present or potential hazard to human health, safety,
property, or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported,
disposed of, or otherwise managed.
   ILLEGAL DISCHARGE.  Any direct or indirect non-storm water discharge to the
storm drain system, except as exempted in this chapter.
   ILLICIT CONNECTIONS. Either of the following:
      (1)   Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface,
which allows an illegal discharge to enter the storm drain system including but
not limited to any conveyances which allow any non-storm water discharge
including sewage, process wastewater, and wash water to enter the storm drain
system and any connections to the storm drain system from indoor drains and
sinks, regardless of whether said drain or connection had been previously
allowed, permitted, or approved by an authorized enforcement agency, or
      (2)   Any drain or conveyance connected from a commercial or industrial
land use to the storm drain system which has not been documented in plans, maps
or equivalent records and approved by an authorized enforcement agency.
   INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY. Activities subject to National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System (NPDES) Industrial Permits as defined in 40 CFR Section
122.26(b)(14).
   MS4. Municipal separate storm sewer system.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION PERMIT (NPDES). This means a permit
issued by EPA (or by a State) under authority pursuant to 33 U.S.C. § 1342(b)
that authorizes the discharge of pollutants to waters of the United States,
whether the permit is applicable on an individual, group, or general area-wide
basis. This permit is also referred to as a MS4 permit for discharge of storm
water runoff under the Arkansas Department of Environmental Quality.
   NON-STORM WATER DISCHARGE. Any discharge to the storm drain system that is
not composed entirely of storm water.
   NOTICE OF INTENT (NOI). Application form for obtaining coverage under a
general storm water permit for construction activities that disturbs one or
more acres or for industrial activities.
   OPERATOR. The owner, party, person, general contractor, sub-contractor,
corporation, or other entity that has operations control over the construction
project. The operator is responsible for ensuring compliance with all
conditions for the elimination of dust and storm water pollution.
   PERSON. Any individual, association, organization, partnership, firm,
corporation or other entity acting as either the owner or as the owner's agent.
   POLLUTANT. Anything that causes or contributes to pollution. POLLUTANTS may
include, but are not limited to: paints, varnishes, and solvents; oil and other
automotive fluids; non-hazardous liquid and solid wastes and yard wastes;
refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter, or other discarded or abandoned objects, and
accumulations, so that same may cause or contribute to pollution; floatables;
pesticides, herbicides, and fertilizers; hazardous substances and wastes;
sewage, fecal coliform and pathogens; dissolved and particulate metals; animal
wastes; wastes and residues that result from constructing a building or
structure; and noxious or offensive matter of any kind.
   PREMISES. Any building, lot, parcel of land, or portion of land whether
improved or unimproved including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
   PROGRAM ADMINISTRATOR. The office, or individual responsible for enforcing
the requirements of this chapter, also referred to as the authorized
enforcement agency.
   STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEM. Publicly or privately owned facilities by which storm
water is collected and/or conveyed, including but not limited to any roads with
drainage systems.
   STORM WATER. Any surface flow, runoff, and drainage consisting entirely of
water from any form of natural precipitation, and resulting from such
precipitation.
   STORM WATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP). A document which describes
the best management practices and activities to be implemented by a person or
business to identify sources of pollution or contamination at a site and the
actions to eliminate or reduce pollutant discharges to storm water, storm water
conveyance systems, and/or receiving waters to the maximum extent practicable.
   WASTEWATER. Any water or other liquid, other than uncontaminated storm
water, discharged from a facility.
(Ord. 379, passed 1-17-06)
§ 53.03 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall apply to all water entering the city's storm drain system
generated on any public or private developed and undeveloped lands regardless
of size and location unless explicitly exempted.
(Ord. 379, passed 1-17-06)
§ 53.04 RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION.
   The Program Administrator or designated agent shall administer, implement,
and enforce the provisions of this chapter acting in the beneficial interest of
the city.
(Ord. 379, passed 1-17-06)
§ 53.05 STORM WATER PROGRAM ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Mayor shall appoint a Storm Water Administrator, who shall
administer this chapter and be responsible to address other related storm water
issues as they relate to the city's compliance with its Small MS4 Storm Water
Permit as issued by ADEQ to the city.
   (B)   The Mayor shall designate a person, who shall administer the storm
water regulations and its affairs in the same manner as all other departments
under his jurisdiction.
(Ord. 379, passed 1-17-06)
§ 53.06 PERMITS.
   A city permit will be required for construction site activities and those
activities associated with excavation, grading, and removal of vegetation. The
permit shall be required for only those sites where one acre or more of land is
disturbed. The permit application for between one acre and five acres shall
consist of documentation the applicant has filed his notice of intent (NOI)
that is filed with the Arkansas Department of Environmental Equality (ADEQ) and
providing the Program Administrator with a copy of the SWPPP for the
construction site that meets ADEQ and the city BMPs plan for the construction
site as determined by the Program Administrator. The city permit application
for sites of five acres or more shall consist of documentation that ADEQ has
approved the construction site SWPPP and that a copy of said plan and
documentation is submitted to the Program Administrator along with
documentation as to complying with the city BMPs practices and procedures as
determined by the Program Administrator. Prior to starting any of the above
stated construction activities the applicant shall obtain a storm water permit.
No zoning and building permits shall be issued for said site until the
applicant has received his storm water permit.
(Ord. 379, passed 1-17-06)
§ 53.07 PERMIT FEES.
   The permit and rates associated with the implementation of this chapter will
be on the disturbance for more than one or more acres of land as stated in this
chapter.
   Single family dwellings   $25.00
   Multiple family dwellings 4 units or less   $100.00
   Multiple family dwellings 5 units or more   $250.00
   Commercial and industrial buildings 10,000 sq. ft. or larger   $250.00
   Commercial and industrial buildings 5,000 sq. ft. to 9,999 sq. ft.   $100.00
   Commercial and industrial building additions between 5,000 sq.ft. and 9,999
sq. ft.   $50.00
   Commercial and industrial building additions 10,000 sq. ft. or
larger   $100.00
   Parking lots 10,000 sq. ft. or more   $100.00
   Parking lots 5,000 sq ft. to 9,999 sq. ft.   $75.00
   Parking Lots less than 5,000 sq. ft.   $50.00
   Subdivisions up to 5 lots   $100.00
   Subdivisions from 6 lots to 12 lots   $200.00
   Subdivisions with 13 lots or more   $400.00
   Other activities that disturb between 1 acre and 3 acres   $100.00
   Other activities that disturb more than 3 acres   $200.00
   Permit exceptions am as follows:
      Land used for agricultural purpose.
      Land where timber extraction takes place provided that it is to be re-
seeded as timber land.
Enforcement Fee: Where code enforcement action is needed to bring a site into
compliance with the Clean Water Act, the following fees will be charged to the
permit holder and or the property owner.
Program Administrator or his designated agent hourly fee in
      monitoring and process violation compliance      $50.00 per minimum
      Street sweeper   $100.00 per minimum
      Other equipment or action as needed   $100.00 per mininnum
(Ord. 379, passed 1-17-06)
§ 53.08 SEVERABILITY.
   The provisions of this chapter are hereby declared to be severable. If any
provision, clause, sentence, or paragraph of this chapter or the application
thereof to any person, establishment, or circumstances shall be held invalid,
such invalidity shall not affect the other application of this chapter.
(Ord. 379, passed 1-17-06)
§ 53.09 RESPONSIBILITY.
   The standards set forth herein and promulgated pursuant to this chapter are
minimum standards; therefore this chapter does not intend nor imply that
compliance by any person will ensure that there will be no contamination,
pollution, nor unauthorized discharge of pollutants.
(Ord. 379, passed 1-17-06)
§ 53.10 PROHIBITIONS AND PERMISSIBLE DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Prohibition of illegal discharges. No person shall discharge or cause
to be discharged into the municipal storm drain system or watercourses any
materials, including but not limited to pollutants or waters containing any
pollutants that cause or contribute to a violation of applicable water quality
standards, other than storm water. The commencement, conduct or continuance of
any illegal discharge to the storm drain system is prohibited. The following is
a partial list, provided for informational purposes only, of common substances
which are illicit discharges when allowed to enter a public drainage control
system: solid waste, human and animal waste, antifreeze, oil, gasoline, grease
and all
other automotive and petroleum products, flammable or explosive materials,
metals in excess of naturally occurring amounts whether in liquid or solid
form, chemicals not normally found in uncontaminated water, solvents and
degreasers, painting products, drain cleaners, commercial and household
cleaning materials, pesticides, herbicides, fertilizers, acids, alkalis, ink,
steam-cleaning waste, laundry waste, soap, detergent, ammonia, chlorine,
swimming pool or hot tub water, domestic or sanitary sewage, animal carcasses,
food and food waste, yard waste, dirt, sand and gravel, and commercial car wash
discharge water.
   (B)   Permissible discharges. The following discharges are exempt from
discharge prohibitions established by this chapter: water line flushing or
other potable water sources, landscape irrigation or lawn watering, diverted
stream flows, rising ground water, ground water infiltration to storm drains,
uncontaminated pumped ground water, foundation or footing drains (not including
active groundwater de-watering systems), crawl space pumps, air conditioning
condensation, springs, non-commercial washing of vehicles, natural riparian
habitat or wetland flows, swimming pools (if de-chlorinated, typically less
than one PPM chlorine), fire fighting activities, and any other water source
not containing pollutants. Dye testing is an allowable discharge, but requires
a verbal notification to the authorized enforcement agency prior to the time of
the test. The prohibition shall not apply to any non-storm water discharge
permitted under an NPDES permit, waiver, or waste discharge order issued to the
discharger and administered under the authority of the Arkansas Department of
Environmental Quality provided that the discharger is in full compliance with
all requirements of the permit, waiver, or order and other applicable laws and
regulations, and provided that written approval has been granted for any
discharge to the storm drain system.
   (C)   Prohibition of illicit connections. The construction, use, maintenance
or continued existence of illicit connections to the storm drain system is
prohibited. This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illicit
connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was
permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of
connection. A person is considered to be in violation of this chapter if the
person connects a line conveying sewage to the MS4, or allows such a connection
to continue.
(Ord. 379, passed 1-17-06) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.11 SUSPENSION OF MS4 ACCESS.
   (A)   Suspension due to illicit discharges in emergency situations. The
Program Administrator may, without prior notice, suspend MS4 discharge access
to a person when such suspension is necessary to stop an actual or threatened
discharge which presents or may present imminent and substantial danger to the
environment, or to the health or welfare of persons, or to the MS4 or waters of
the United States. If the violator fails to comply with a suspension order
issued in an emergency, the authorized enforcement agency may take such steps
as deemed necessary to prevent or minimize damage to the MS4 or waters of the
United States, or to minimize danger to persons.
   (B)   Suspension due to the detection of illicit discharge. Any person
discharging to the MS4 in violation of this chapter may have their MS4 access
terminated if such termination would abate or reduce an illicit discharge. The
authorized enforcement agency will notify a violator of the proposed
termination of its MS4 access. The violator may petition in writing the City
Council for a reconsideration and hearing.
(Ord. 379, passed 1-17-06)
§ 53.12 INDUSTRIAL OR CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY DISCHARGES.
   Any person subject to an industrial or construction activity NPDES storm
water discharge permit shall comply with all provisions of such permit. Proof
of compliance with said permit may be required in a form acceptable to the
Program Administrator prior to the allowing of discharges to the MS4.
(Ord. 379, passed 1-17-06) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.13 MONITORING OF DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Applicability. This section applies to all facilities that have storm
water discharges associated with industrial activity, and construction
activity.
   (B)   Access to facilities. 
      (1)   The Program Administrator shall be permitted to enter and inspect
facilities subject to regulation under this chapter as often as may be
necessary to determine compliance with this chapter. If a discharger has
security measures in force which require proper identification and clearance
before entry into its premises, the discharger shall make the necessary
arrangements to allow access to representatives of the authorized enforcement
agency.
      (2)   Facility operators shall allow the Program Administrator ready
access to all parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling,
examination and copying of records that must be kept under the conditions of an
NPDES permit to discharge storm water, and the performance of any additional
duties as defined by state and federal law.
      (3)   The Program Administrator shall have the right to set up on any
permitted facility such devices as are necessary in the opinion of the
authorized enforcement agency to conduct monitoring and/or sampling of the
facility's storm water discharge.
      (4)   The Program Administrator shall have the right to require the
discharger to install monitoring equipment as necessary. The facility's
sampling and monitoring equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe
and proper operating condition by the discharger at its own expense. All
devices used to measure storm water flow and quality shall be calibrated to
ensure their accuracy.
      (5)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to
the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
operator at the written or oral request of the Program Administrator and shall
not be replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the
operator.
      (6)   Unreasonable delays in allowing the Program Administrator access to
a permitted facility is a violation of a storm water discharge permit and of
this chapter. A person who is the operator of a facility with a NPDES permit to
discharge storm water associated with industrial activity commits an offense if
the person denies the authorized enforcement agency reasonable access to the
permitted facility for the purpose of conducting any activity authorized or
required by this chapter.
      (7)   If the Program Administrator has been refused access to any part of
the premises from which storm water is discharged, and he/she is able to
demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this
chapter, or that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine
inspection and sampling program designed to verify compliance with this chapter
or any order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall public health, safety,
and welfare of the community, then the authorized enforcement agency may seek
issuance of a search warrant from any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 379, passed 1-17-06)
§ 53.14 REQUIREMENT TO PREVENT, CONTROL, AND REDUCE STORM WATER POLLUTANTS BY
THE USE OF BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES.
   The city requires BMPs for any activity, operation, or facility which may
cause or contribute to pollution or contamination of storm water, the storm
drain system, or waters of the United States. The owner or operator of a
residential, commercial or industrial establishment shall provide, at their own
expense, reasonable protection from accidental discharge of prohibited
materials or other wastes into the municipal storm drain system or watercourses
through the use of these structural and non-structural BMPs. Further, any
person responsible for a property or premise, which is, or may be, the source
of an illicit discharge, may be required to implement, at said person's
expense, additional structural and non-structural BMPs to prevent the further
discharge of pollutants to the municipal separate storm sewer system.
Compliance with all terms and conditions of a valid NPDES permit authorizing
the discharge of storm water associated with industrial activity, to the extent
practicable, shall be deemed compliance with the provisions of this section.
These BMPs shall be part of a storm water pollution prevention plan (SWPPP) as
necessary for compliance with requirements of the NPDES permit.
(Ord. 379, passed 1-17-06)
§ 53.15 WATERCOURSE PROTECTION.
   Every person owning property through which a watercourse passes, or such
person's lessee, shall keep and maintain that part of the watercourse within
the property free of trash, debris, and other deleterious materials that would
pollute, contaminate, or significantly degrade the flow of water through the
watercourse. In addition, the owner or lessee shall maintain existing privately
owned structures within or adjacent to a watercourse, so that such structures
will not become a hazard to the use, function, or physical integrity of the
watercourse.
(Ord. 379, passed 1-17-06) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.16 NOTIFICATION OF SPILLS OR RELEASES.
   Not withstanding other requirements of law, as soon as any person
responsible for a facility or operation, or responsible for emergency responses
for a facility or operation has information of any known or suspected release
of materials which are resulting or may result in illegal discharges or
pollutants discharging into storm water, the storm drain system, or water of
the United States said person shall take all necessary steps to ensure the
discovery, containment, and cleanup of such release. In the event of a release
of hazardous materials said person shall immediately notify emergency response
agencies of the occurrence via emergency dispatch services. In the event of a
release of non-hazardous materials, said person shall notify the authorized
enforcement agency in person or by phone or facsimile no later than the next
business day. Notifications in person or by phone shall be confirmed by written
notice addressed and mailed to the City Program Administrator within five
business days of the phone notice.
(Ord. 379, passed 1-17-06) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.17 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Notice of violation. Whenever the Program Administrator finds that an
organization has violated a prohibition or failed to meet a requirement of this
chapter, the authorized enforcement agency may order compliance by written
notice of violation to the responsible person. Such notice may require without
limitation:
      (1)   The performance of monitoring, analyses, and reporting;
      (2)   The elimination of illicit connections or discharges;
      (3)   That violating discharges, practices, or operations shall cease and
desist;
      (4)   The abatement or remediation of storm water pollution or
contamination hazards and the restoration of any affected property;
      (5)   Payment of fees to cover administrative and remediation costs; and
      (6)   The implementation of source control or treatment BMPs.
   (B)   If abatement of a violation and/or restoration of affected property
are required, the notice shall set forth a deadline within which such
remediation or restoration must be completed. Said notice shall further advise
that, should the violator fail to remediate or restore within the established
deadline, the work will be done by a designated governmental agency or a
contractor and the expense thereof shall be charged to the violator.
(Ord. 379, passed 1-17-06)
§ 53.18 APPEAL OF NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   A person receiving a notice of violation may appeal the determination of the
authorized enforcement agency. The notice of appeal must be in writing and
received within five days from the date of the notice of violation. Hearing on
the appeal before the City Council shall take place at the next regularly
scheduled City Council meeting. The decision of the City Council shall be
final.
(Ord. 379, passed 1-17-06)
§ 53.19 ENFORCEMENT MEASURES AFTER APPEAL.
   If the violation has not been corrected pursuant to the requirements set
forth in the notice of violation, or, in the event of an appeal, within ten
days of the decision of the City Council upholding the decision of the
authorized enforcement agency, then representatives of the city may enter upon
the subject private property and are authorized to take any and all measures
necessary to abate the violation. It shall be unlawful for any person, owner,
agent or person in possession of any premises to refuse to allow the government
agency or designated agent to enter upon the premises for the purposes set
forth above.
(Ord. 379, passed 1-17-06)
§ 53.20 VIOLATIONS DEEMED A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   In addition to the enforcement processes and penalties provided, any
condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter is a threat to public health, safety, and welfare, and is declared
and deemed a nuisance, and may be summarily abated or restored at the
violator's expense, and/or a civil action to abate, enjoin, or otherwise compel
the cessation of such nuisance may be taken.
(Ord. 379, passed 1-17-06)
§ 53.21 REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The remedies listed in this chapter are not exclusive of any other remedies
available under any applicable federal, state or local law and it is within the
discretion of the authorized enforcement agency to seek cumulative remedies.
(Ord. 379, passed 1-17-06)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with
any its requirements shall constitute a misdemeanor. After the expiration date
indicated by the notice of violation, any person who violates this chapter or
fails to comply with any of its requirements shall upon conviction thereof, be
fined not less than $100 or imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both, and
in addition shall pay all costs and expenses involved in this case. After the
expiration date indicated by the notice of violation, each day such violation
continues shall be considered a separate offense.
   (B)   The owner or tenant of the premises or part thereof, and builder,
contractor, agent or other person, who willfully commits, participates in,
assists in, or maintains such violation may each be found guilty of a separate
offense and suffer the penalties herein provided.
(Ord. 379, passed 1-17-06)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70. TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Traffic-control signals and devices
   
70.02   Hazardous driving
   
70.03   One-way streets
Truck Routes
   
70.15   Definitions
   
70.16   Application of regulations
   
70.17   Truck route designations
   
70.18   Deliveries or pickups
   
70.19   Rock trucks, log trucks and chipwood trucks
   
70.20   Parking overnight at driver's residence
   
70.21   Trucks to avoid peak traffic hours
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNALS AND DEVICES.
   All traffic-control signals and traffic-control devices shall be established
by the Traffic Committee. It shall be unlawful for any person to violate the
directions of any lawfully placed traffic-control signal or device, unless
otherwise directed to do so by a law enforcement officer.
(Ord. 115, passed 7-9-79) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.02 HAZARDOUS DRIVING.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, HAZARDOUS DRIVING shall be defined as
darting in and
out of moving lines of traffic; improper or dangerous changing of lanes on
multi-laned thoroughfares; cutting onto and across private property to avoid
intersections, stop signs and stop lights; driving around corners at such a
speed and in such a manner as to cause a skidding of tires or sliding of the
vehicle, driving too close to parked vehicles, driving a vehicle which has any
part thereof extended in such a fashion as to endanger persons or property,
driving in wet or inclement weather without proper control of the vehicle, and
operating a vehicle wherein or whereon passengers are located in such a manner
as to be dangerous to the welfare of such passengers, or other persons.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle in a
hazardous manner on the streets and byways of the city.
(Ord. 148, passed 9-10-84) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 ONE-WAY STREETS.
   Certain streets have been designated as "one-way" in the city, and on those
streets, traffic shall move only in the direction indicated by signs thereon.
(Ord. 176, passed 5-9-88) Penalty, see §
70.99
TRUCK ROUTES
§ 70.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHIPWOOD TRUCK. Any truck 1½ tons or larger hauling pulpwood chips.
   LOG TRUCK. Any truck 1½ tons or larger hauling cut or trimmed logs in any
unprocessed form.
   PEAK TRAFFIC HOURS. Time periods where congestion of traffic is likely to
occur. These time periods are defined as being from 7:00 a.m. to 8:00 a.m.,
from 12:00 noon to 1:00 p.m., and from 4:30 p.m. to 5:30 p.m. Monday through
Friday.
   ROCK TRUCK. Any truck 1½ tons or larger hauling gravel, stones, broken or
crushed rocks in any unprocessed form.
   TRUCK. Any motor vehicle designed to carry loads, freight, or goods, being
1½ tons or larger.
(Ord. 203, passed 3-9-92)
§ 70.16 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to all trucks 1½ tons or
larger except that, the provisions herein shall not apply to any truck operated
by or for any public utility, nor to any truck or vehicle engaged in or
responding to any need or requirement for emergency repairs, care, or service.
(Ord. 203, passed 3-9-92)
§ 70.17 TRUCK ROUTE DESIGNATIONS.
   The following streets, roads, and highways located within the corporate
limits of the city are hereby designated as truck routes:
   (A)   U.S. Highway 65
   (B)   U.S. Highway 270/65B
   (C)   Arkansas Highway 365
   (D)   Arkansas Highway 256.
(Ord. 203, passed 3-9-92)
§ 70.18 DELIVERIES OR PICKUPS.
   (A)   All deliveries or pick-ups in the city not located on the herein
designated truck routes shall travel the truck routes to the closest point of
their designation, provided, however, that short-cuts on non-designated truck
routes may not be taken when there are designated truck routes that will arrive
at the same destination or closest point thereto. However, all trucks engaged
in making deliveries originating from a point within the city to other points
within the city not located on the designated truck routes shall be excluded
from this provision.
   (B)   All pick-up and deliveries are to be transacted off street right-of-
way except where such transaction cannot be accomplished by any other feasible
means. All pick-ups and deliveries shall at no time obstruct or impede the flow
of traffic beyond reasonable extent.
(Ord. 203, passed 3-9-92) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.19 ROCK TRUCKS, LOG TRUCKS AND CHIPWOOD TRUCKS.
   Rock trucks, log trucks, and chipwood trucks as herein defined shall only
travel upon the designated truck routes expressly designated for the use of the
above said trucks.
(Ord. 203, passed 3-9-92) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.20 PARKING OVERNIGHT AT DRIVER'S RESIDENCE.
   Any unloaded trucks may be driven off designated truck routes and parked
overnight at the residence of the driver thereof, residing inside the corporate
limits of the city, provided that such truck shall not be so parked on any
street or public right-of-way in the city or in any part of any front yard set-
back as set forth in the Zoning Regulations (see Chapter 155), and provided
further that this section shall not apply to any loaded truck.
(Ord. 203, passed 3-9-92) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.21 TRUCKS TO AVOID PEAK TRAFFIC HOURS.
   All trucks engaged in making pick-ups and deliveries are to avoid
transactions during peak traffic hours as defined in §
70.15. This provision is to help ease the entanglement of route mobility at
times when congestion of traffic is likely to occur.
(Ord. 203, passed 3-9-92) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Anyone violating §
70.02 shall be found guilty of a misdemeanor and fined in an amount not to be
less than $25 and costs and not to exceed $100 and costs. (Ord. 148, passed 9-
10-84)
   (B)   Violation of §
70.03 is a misdemeanor and a fine of $20 is established as a penalty for
violation. (Ord. 176, passed 5-9-88)
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation convicted of the violation of any
provision of §§
70.15 through
70.21 shall be deemed guilty of the commission of a misdemeanor, and shall be
fined not less than $75 and not more than $250. (Ord. 203, passed 3-9-92)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
92.   AMBULANCE SERVICES
      
93.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
94.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
95.   NOISE
      
96.   NUISANCE ABATEMENT AND PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
      
97.   ALARM SYSTEMS
      
98.   CANVASSING, SOLICITATION, AND PEDDLING
      
99.   FAIR HOUSING
      
100.   INSTALLATION IN RIGHT-OF-WAY FOR CERTAIN PUBLIC UTILITY AND
COMMUNICATION PROVIDERS
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Proper pet care
   
90.03   Keeping animals other than dogs and cats
   
90.04   Livestock running at large
   
90.05   Wild or exotic animals
   
90.06   Protection from cruelty
   
90.07   Adoption of animals
Rabies Control
   
90.20   Vaccination
   
90.21   Rabies clinic
   
90.22   Animals suspected of rabies; inspection and confinement
Regulations Specific to Dogs and Cats
   
90.35   Restraint required
   
90.36   Impoundment
   
90.37   Reclaiming dogs; fees
   
90.38   License required for dog or cat
   
90.39   Barking or howling dogs
   
90.40   Keeping of registered vicious dogs
Administration and Enforcement
   
90.50   Notice of offenses and violations
   
90.51   Responsibility for enforcement
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENT. The Animal Control Officer for the city is responsible for the
coordination of all animal control operations within the corporate limits of
the city. The Operations Supervisor for the city is responsible for the
supervising and directing the work of the Animal Control Officer. The
Operations Supervisor will coordinate the functions of the Animal Control
Officer with the Police Department when such is required.
   ANIMAL CONTAINMENT. Any premises designated by action of the city for the
purpose of impounding and caring for the animals found running at large in
violation of this chapter.
   AT LARGE. Any dog not confined to the premises of the owner or within a
house or other building or enclosure or restrained on the premises of the owner
by a leash sufficiently strong to prevent the dog from escaping and restricting
the dog to the premises, or not confined by a lead or within an automobile when
away from the premises of the owner.
   ANIMAL CONTROL DEPARTMENT. The agency of the city having primary
responsibility for the implementation of this chapter as hereinafter
prescribed.
   CATS. When used herein shall include animals of all ages, both female and
male, which are members of the feline or cat family.
   CITY TAGS. A required license to be paid yearly, to the city by any owner
residing within the corporate limits of the city who keeps or harbors any dog
or cat.
   DOGS. When used herein shall include animals of all ages, both female and
male, which are members of the canine or dog family.
   OWNER. Every person, firm, partnership or corporation owning, keeping, or
harboring an animal within the corporate limits of the city.
   PET SHOP. An establishment which offers for sale live animals with the
intent that they be kept as pets, or for purposes of exhibition or viewing by
visitors.
   RABIES CLINIC. The engagement of a licensed veterinarian by the agent of the
city to administer vaccine for rabies.
   VACCINATION. An injection of any vaccine for rabies approved by the state
veterinarian and administered by a licensed veterinarian or agent of the County
Health Department.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any animal that constitutes a physical threat to human
beings or other animals, or has a disposition or propensity to attack or bite
any person or other animal without provocation, or which, due to size, vicious
nature or other characteristics, constitutes a danger to human life, physical
well-being, or property; or any animal which has been known to bite or attack a
human being or other domestic animals, without provocation, one or more times.
(Ord. 210, passed 2-8-93)
§ 90.02 PROPER PET CARE.
   (A)   Animals must be properly cared for at all times with proper food and
water, shelter and veterinary care.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful, for any person, firm, or corporation to abandon
any dog, cat, or other animal within the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. 210, passed 2-8-93) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 KEEPING ANIMALS OTHER THAN DOGS AND CATS.
   (A)   No horse, mule, pony, donkey, burro, jackass, jenny, cow, or bull may
be stabled within the city limits if said animal is stabled closer than 100
feet to the residence of any person other than the person keeping or
maintaining the animal, and for each animal kept or maintained within the city,
the person keeping or maintaining shall have under their ownership,
jurisdiction, or control, and available to the animal, at least one-half acre
of ground, exclusive of residence and dwelling houses. For goats, sheep and
swine kept or maintained within the city, the person keeping or maintaining
shall have under their ownership, jurisdiction, or control, a minimum of ten
acres with no more than ten adult animals on said acreage.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the person keeping or maintaining said animal
to assure the said animal cannot approach closer than 100 feet of the residence
or dwelling house of another person by use of fences, tethering ropes, or other
humane devices to prevent the animal from approaching.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, harbor or have custody of
more than six adult rabbits, chickens, geese, ducks or other fowl.
   (D)   For the purpose of this chapter, any animal remaining on the premises
of any person, with the knowledge of or consent of the person, for six
consecutive hours, or more, shall be deemed to be kept or maintained on the
property.
   (E)   No person shall cause or allow any stable or place where any animal or
fowl is or may be
kept to become unclean, unsanitary or to give off offensive odors to the extent
that such odors are disturbing to any person residing within reasonable
proximity of the premises.
   (F)   All persons keeping animals under the conditions of this chapter must
obtain a permit from the city and pay a permit fee of $2 for each calendar year
for each animal.
(Ord. 210, passed 2-8-93) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 LIVESTOCK RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   The city is empowered to prevent the running at large within its
corporate city limits of cattle, horses, mules, asses, swine, sheep, goats, and
other animals of such kind and is authorized and empowered to restrain and
impound any such animals so found running at large within it's corporate city
limits.
   (B)   Whenever the agent or officer of the city shall take charge of any
horse, cow, ass, sheep, goat, or hog for the purpose of impounding it, the
persons so impounding the stock found to be running at large in the city shall
at once notify the owner of the animal, if known to the agent or officer, that
the animal has been taken possession of.
   (C)   If the owner of the animal shall, within 24 hours after being
notified, appear and claim his stock, it shall be delivered to the owner.
   (D)   If the owner of the stock is unknown to the agent or officer taking up
or impounding, then the agent or officer shall post written notices in at least
three public places within the corporate city limits, and by notice in the
local newspapers. This notice shall give a description of the animal, set out
therein the marks, brands, and flesh marks of the animals so impounded, and
call upon the owner of the animal to prove his ownership or interest therein to
such person or officer having it in his possession or custody, within ten days
after the publication of the notice.
   (E)   Upon proof being made to the satisfaction of the agent or officer and
the payment of actual expenses incurred in the taking care of the animal, the
agent or officer having it in their possession shall at once deliver the animal
to the owner.
   (F)   If the agent, or any employee of the city shall drive or entice any of
the stock enumerated in this section from outside the city into the city, they
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and punished as provided in §
90.99.
(A.C. § 14-54-1101) (Ord. 210, passed 2-8-93) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 WILD OR EXOTIC ANIMALS.
   No wild animal may be kept within the city limits, except under such
conditions as shall be fixed by the Animal Control Department; provided,
however, that wild animals may be kept for exhibition
purposes by circuses, zoos, pet shops, and educational institutions, in
accordance with such regulations as shall be established by the Animal Control
Department.
(Ord. 210, passed 2-8-93) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 PROTECTION FROM CRUELTY.
   (A)   The agent of the city shall enforce laws governing humane treatment of
animals. If necessary, animals may be removed from unsafe or unhealthy
conditions and legal action taken against negligent owners.
   (B)   Any agent of the Animal Control Department may enter the premises
where any animal is kept in a reportedly cruel or inhumane manner and demand to
examine such animal and to take possession of such animal when in their
opinion, it requires humane treatment.
(Ord. 210, passed 2-8-93)
§ 90.07 ADOPTION OF ANIMALS.
   Any animal unwanted or unclaimed by the owner may be adopted by payment of
the cost of impounding said animal and in accordance with §
90.37. All dogs and cats adopted from the animal containment will be required
to be spayed or neutered before adoption.
(Ord. 210, passed 2-8-93)
RABIES CONTROL
§ 90.20 VACCINATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to allow a dog
owned by it to run at large or to keep or harbor a dog/cat three months of age
or older, within the corporate limits of the city that does not bear a tag
certifying that said dog/cat has been vaccinated for rabies within the year
next proceeding. Every dog/cat covered by this chapter must have and wear a
collar of such type that the vaccination tag may be firmly attached to said
collar. Such tag, when issued shall at all times be securely attached to the
dog's/cat's collar or harness, and failure to keep such tag on the dog's/cat's
collar or harness, shall be unlawful.
(Ord. 210, passed 2-8-93) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.21 RABIES CLINIC.
   The city shall sponsor an annual rabies clinic for the vaccination of dogs
and cats and said clinic
shall be the only clinic held within the city. The said clinic is for the
convenience of the citizens and shall in no way be construed as being
mandatory. The city shall provide a licensed veterinarian in the corporate
limits of the city for one day each year between April 1 and May 1 for the
purpose of vaccinating dogs and cats for those residents who desire the
services of the licensed veterinarian so engaged by the city. The cost of
vaccination shall be borne by the owner of the dog or cat receiving the
vaccination. One copy of the receipt of payment for vaccination of the dog or
cat shall be furnished to the agent of the city at the time of the vaccination.
Residents of the city who do not select to have their dog or cat vaccinated at
the annual rabies clinic shall be required to furnish the agent of the city by
May 1 each year, proof of vaccination for the current year, for each dog or
cat.
(Ord. 210, passed 2-8-93) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.22 ANIMALS SUSPECTED OF RABIES; INSPECTION AND CONFINEMENT.
   (A)   Any animal having rabies, or symptoms thereof, or suspected of having
rabies, or which had been exposed to rabies shall be immediately released by
the owner or custodian of such animal to a veterinary hospital, at the expense
of the owner; said hospital to be approved by the agent of the city; such
animals shall immediately and securely be confined by the attachment of a chain
of good quality and kept under the supervision of the veterinarian for a period
of 30 days or for a longer period of time if in the opinion of the
veterinarian, additional confinement is determined necessary.
   (B)   When any dog has bitten, scratched, or otherwise attacked a person,
that person or anyone having knowledge of such incident shall immediately
notify the agent for the city and such dog shall be confined in a veterinary
hospital, at the expense of the owner, for a period of ten days, or shall be
immediately and securely confined by the owner by tying with a chain of good
quality for a period of ten days in such a place that no person or animal may
be bitten by it and such dog shall during such period of confinement be subject
to inspection by a veterinarian.
(Ord. 210, passed 2-8-93) Penalty, see §
90.99
REGULATIONS SPECIFIC TO DOGS AND CATS
§ 90.35 RESTRAINT REQUIRED.
   All dogs must be kept under restraint at all times, even though they have
rabies vaccination and city tags. Cats do not have to be kept under restraint;
however, pet owners are responsible for their pet's actions. Every dog or cat
in heat must be properly confined.
(Ord. 210, passed 2-8-93) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.36 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   The agent of the city shall take into custody any dog found at large
in the city in violation of §
90.20 or any dog not bearing a license securely attached to the collar, as
previously provided for in §
90.20, and shall impound said animal; such impounded dog shall be held for a
period of ten days. At that end of such time, the dog shall be destroyed unless
custody of said dog is released prior thereto under the following conditions.
   (B)   During the first six days of impoundment, the agent of the city shall
make diligent effort to determine the owner of such dog and notify them of such
impoundment. If the owner of such dog refuses to claim and repossess such dog,
by the payment of the proper fee as prescribed herein, within the first six
days of such impoundment, or the owner of such dog cannot be located, the agent
of the city may deliver custody and possession of such dog to any person other
than said owner of impounded dog, upon payment of fee as prescribed in §
90.37 between the sixth day of said impoundment and the tenth day of
impoundment.
(Ord. 210, passed 2-8-93)
§ 90.37 RECLAIMING DOGS; FEES.
   Any person owning, possessing or keeping a dog which has been allowed to run
at large and which has been impounded may claim and retrieve such dog from the
agents of the city by payment of the cost of impounding said dog, if the dog
has been vaccinated within the year next proceeding such impounding, and is
currently tagged as required by the law. Proof of the animal’s vaccination will
be required of the owner; and, if in fact, the animal has not been vaccinated,
there will be a fee of $5 collected prior to the release of the animal. This
will cover the charge for vaccination prior to return. In addition, the bond/
fine for permitting an animal to run loose will be as follows:
   (A)   First offense:      $30 per animal
   (B)   Second offense:      $50 per animal
   (C)   Third offense:      $70 per animal
   (D)   Fourth and subsequent offenses will require a mandatory court
appearance; and, the punishment may not exceed $100 plus the costs of court.
(Ord. 210, passed 2-8-93; Am. Ord. 409, passed 5-19-08)
§ 90.38 LICENSE REQUIRED FOR DOG OR CAT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to own, keep
or harbor a dog within the corporate limits of the city without having first
paid to the collector an annual license fee of $2
2008 S-14
each on all dogs and cats three months of age or over. The license fee required
shall be payable as soon as the dog or cat attains three months of age and at
the same time the dog or cat receives a rabies vaccination as required in §
90.20 thereof.
   (B)   Upon payment of the license tax or fee required by this section, it
shall be the duty of the Animal Control Department to furnish the owner of the
dog/cat with a metal tag of distinctive design, on one side of which shall be
stamped the words, “tax paid,” the year for which the same is paid, and the
serial number of the cat or dog. Every dog or cat covered by this chapter must
have and wear a collar of such type that the license tag may be firmly attached
to said collar. Such tag, when issued, shall at all times be securely attached
to the dog or cat's collar or harness, and failure to keep such tag on the dog
or cat's collar or harness shall be unlawful.
   (C)   The license as referred to in this section shall be effective for the
year ensuing its issuance and must be renewed in each subsequent year on the
same month and day it was originally issued. This license shall be
nontransferable and must be returned to the Animal Control Department upon the
death of the dog or cat. The owner may obtain a duplicate tag, if such tag is
lost, by payment of a $.50 fee to the Animal Control Department.
   (D)   All veterinarians who are licensed to practice in Jefferson County
shall be appointed registrars of the city and shall register each dog that
receives a rabies vaccination if such dog is to be kept within the corporate
limits of the city.
(Ord. 210, passed 2-8-93) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.39 BARKING OR HOWLING DOGS.
   No person shall allow any dog, unprovoked, to bark, bay, cry, howl, or make
any other noise continuously to the disturbance of any person who may reside
within reasonable proximity of the place where such dog is kept at any time of
the day or night.
(Ord. 210, passed 2-8-93) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.40 KEEPING OF REGISTERED VICIOUS DOGS.
   The following standards shall apply to the keeping of vicious dogs within
the city limits, whether such dog is at the time of the effective date of this
chapter within the city limits or so at a future date:
   (A)   Registration requirements. Within 30 days from the date any vicious
dog is born within or brought into the city, the owner of said vicious dog
shall register same with the Animal Control Department on such registration
forms as may be prepared by the Animal Control Department.
   (B)   Leash and muzzle. No person shall permit a vicious dog to go outside
its kennel or pen unless such dog is securely leashed with a leash no longer
than four feet in length. No person shall permit a vicious dog to be kept on a
chain, rope or other type of leash outside its kennel or pen unless
a person is in physical control of the leash. Such dogs may not be leashed to
inanimate objects such as trees, posts, buildings, etc. In addition, all
vicious dogs on a leash outside the animal's kennel or pen must be muzzled by a
muzzling device sufficient to prevent such dog from biting persons or other
animals.
   (C)   Confinement. All registered vicious dogs shall be securely confined
indoors or in a securely enclosed and locked pen or kennel or structure which
must have secure sides and a secure top attached to the sides. All structures
used to confine registered vicious dogs must be locked with a key or
combination lock when such animals are within the structure. Such structure
must have a secure bottom or floor attached to the sides of the pen or the
sides of the pen must be imbedded in the ground not less than two feet. All
structures erected to house vicious dogs must comply with all zoning and
building regulations of the city. All such structures must be adequately
lighted and ventilated and kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
   (D)   Confinement indoors. No vicious dog may be kept on a porch, patio or
in any part of a house or structure when the windows are open or when screen
windows or screen doors are the only obstacle preventing the dog from exiting
the structure.
   (E)   Signs. All owners, keepers or harborer of registered vicious dogs
within the city shall display in a prominent place on their premises a sign
easily readable by the public using the words “Beware of Dog.” In addition, a
similar sign is required to be posted on the kennel or pen of such animal.
   (F)   Insurance. All owners, keepers or harborer of registered vicious dogs
must provide proof to the City Clerk-Treasurer of public liability insurance in
a single incident amount of $50,000 for bodily injury to or death of any
persons which may result from the ownership, keeping or maintenance of such
animal. Such insurance policy shall provide that no cancellation of the policy
will be made unless ten days written notice is first given to the City Clerk-
Treasurer.
   (G)   Identification photographs. All owners, keepers or harborer of
registered vicious dogs must provide to the City Clerk-Treasurer two color
photographs of the registered animal clearly showing the color and approximate
size of the animal.
   (H)   Reporting requirement.  All owners, keepers or harborer of registered
vicious dogs must, within ten days of the incidents below, report the following
information in writing to the City Clerk-Treasurer as required hereinafter.
      (1)   The removal from the city or death of a registered vicious dog.
      (2)   The birth of offspring of a registered vicious dog.
      (3)   The new address of a registered vicious dog owner should the owner
move within the city limits.
   (I)   Sale or transfer of ownership prohibited. No person shall sell,
barter, or in any other way dispose of a vicious dog registered with the city
to any person within the city unless the recipient person first complies with
registration and other requirements herein.
   (J)   Rebuttable presumption There shall be a rebuttable presumption that
any dog registered with the city as a vicious dog is in fact a dog subject to
the requirements of this section.
   (K)   Failure to comply. It shall be unlawful for the owner, keeper or
harborer of a vicious dog registered with the city to fail to comply with the
requirements and conditions set forth in this chapter. Any dog found to be the
subject of a violation of this chapter shall be subject to immediate seizure
and impoundment. In addition, failure to comply will result in the revocation
of the registration of such animal, resulting in the immediate removal of the
animal from the city.
(Ord. 210, passed 2-8-93) Penalty, see §
90.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 90.50 NOTICE OF OFFENSES AND VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The agent of the city is authorized, for violation of any portion of
this chapter, to give the offender a notice to appear in court of the city.
Such notice to appear shall state the name and address of the violator and the
date of the violation, shall contain a statement of the nature of the violation
and be signed by the person having knowledge of such violation.
   (B)   The notice shall contain a printed statement in which the violator
promises to appear in court, without issuance of any warrant or other process
and which statement is to be signed by the violator. Upon failure to sign the
agreement to appear, the agent the city shall swear out a complaint and the
usual procedure upon the filing of complaints with the court shall govern the
arrest and trial of the violator.
(Ord. 210, passed 2-8-93)
§ 90.51 RESPONSIBILITY FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   The primary responsibility for the enforcement of this chapter shall rest
with the Animal Control Department and its designated employees and the Police
Department. The Animal Control Department shall be authorized and empowered to
adopt and promulgate such rules and regulations as may be necessary and proper
to effectuate this chapter, under the direction of the agent. Persons appointed
to, or otherwise serving in the Animal Control Department at the time of the
adoption of this chapter, shall constitute the initial membership thereof.
(Ord. 210, passed 2-8-93)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any portion of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is otherwise provided shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall
be punished, upon conviction, by assessment of a fine not less than $10 and not
more than $100 plus the cost of court.
   (B)   Whoever violates §
90.04(F), upon conviction, shall be fined in any sum not less than $5 nor more
than $25. (A.C. § 14-54-1101)
   (C)   Any person violating or permitting the violation of any provision of §
90.40 shall, upon conviction, be fined a sum not less than $200 and not more
than $1,000. In addition to the fine imposed the court may sentence the
defendant to imprisonment for a period not to exceed 30 days. In addition, the
court shall order the registration of the subject vicious dog revoked and the
dog removed from the city. Should the defendant refuse to remove the dog from
the city, the court may find the defendant in contempt and order the immediate
confiscation and impoundment of the animal. Each day that a violation of §
90.40 continues shall be deemed a separate offense. In addition to the
foregoing penalties, any person who violates §
90.40 shall pay all expenses, including but not limited to the shelter, food,
handling, veterinary care and testimony necessitated by the enforcement of that
section.
(Ord. 210, passed 2-8-93)
CHAPTER 91: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Fireworks
   
91.01   Definition
   
91.02   Prohibited acts; exceptions
   
91.03   Rules for permits
Hazardous Cargo Routes
   
91.10   Hazardous cargo routes designation
Above Ground Storage Tanks
   
91.15   Above ground storage tanks prohibited at service stations
   
91.16   Exemption
Fire Lanes
   
91.20   Fire lanes
Fire Hazard
   
91.30   Fire hazard prohibited
 
   
91.99   Penalty
FIREWORKS
§ 91.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIREWORKS. Any combustible or explosive composition, or any substance or
combination of substances, or article prepared for the purpose of producing a
visible or audible effect by combustion, explosion, deflagration or detonation,
and shall include blank cartridges, toy pistols, toy cannons, toy
canes, or toy guns in which explosives are used, the type of unmanned balloons
which require fire underneath to propel the same, firecrackers, torpedoes,
skyrockets, Roman candles, Daygo bombs, sparklers, or other fireworks of like
construction and any fireworks containing any explosive of flammable compound,
or any tablets or other device containing any explosive substance, except that
the term FIREWORKS shall not include model rockets and model rocket engines,
designed, sold and used for the purpose of propelling recoverable aero models
and shall not include toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns or other devices in
which paper and/or plastic caps containing not in excess of an average of
twenty-five hundredths of a grain of explosive content per cap manufactured in
accordance with the
use of which shall be permitted at all times. Each package containing toy paper
and/or plastic caps offered for retail sale shall be labeled to indicate the
maximum explosive content per cap. Although the term FIREWORKS includes in
definition skyrockets/bottle rockets, it is the intent of this subchapter that
those two items; and any other FIREWORKS that operate in the same or similar
manner are hereby specifically prohibited from being discharged in the city
limits.
(Ord. 139, passed 9-12-83; Am. Ord. 209, passed 9-14-92)
§ 91.02 PROHIBITED ACTS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to offer for sale, expose for
sale, sell at retail, or use or explode any fireworks except as provided in
divisions (B), (C), (D) and (E) below.
   (B)   The exploding of fireworks is permitted only with adult supervision
and only on January 1, July 4, December 24 and December 31 of each year.
   (C)   The sale of fireworks within the city limits is permitted only in
locations zoned commercial; not located within 200 feet of an existing
business; have adequate surface parking so as to prevent traffic congestion; be
approved by both the Fire Chief and Police Chief; and pay a permit fee to the
city in the amount of $200 per calendar year.
   (D)   The sale of fireworks shall be permitted only from June 21 through
July 5 and December 17 through January 2.
   (E)   Locations with permits to sell fireworks shall display the permit
issued by the city and a copy of this section in a prominent location at or
near the point of sale.
(Ord. 139, passed 9-12-83; Am. Ord. 411, passed 5-19-08)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate fireworks, see A.C. §§ 20-22-701 through 20-22-715
§ 91.03 RULES FOR PERMITS.
   The Fire Chief may adopt reasonable rules and regulations for the granting
of permits for supervised public displays of fireworks by municipalities, fair
associations, amusement parks, and other organizations or groups of
individuals.
(Ord. 139, passed 9-12-83)
HAZARDOUS CARGO ROUTES
§ 91.10 HAZARDOUS CARGO ROUTES DESIGNATION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, those streets and thoroughfares
within the corporate limits of the city which are enumerated as follows are
hereby designated as hazardous material routes.
   (B)   Designated hazardous material truck routes.
 
Name                          Extent
Hwy 365 (Dollarway Road)      Entire extent within corporate city limits
Hwy 365 Spur (Sheridan Road)  Entire extent within corporate city limits
Hwy 256 (Hoadley and Holland) Entire extent of Hoadley and from 1020 West
                              Holland to I-35
 
   (C)   Commercial motor vehicles transporting hazardous materials shall not
depart off the hazardous material route, except to pick up or deliver hazardous
material, provide services, or to seek repairs for the commercial motor vehicle
at a legitimate repair facility. In such cases, the vehicle shall not depart
the hazardous material route until such vehicle has reached a point which is
nearest the applicable place of loading or unloading, provision of services, or
legitimate repair facility, and shall return to the hazardous material route by
the most direct route. Additionally, said commercial motor vehicles
transporting hazardous materials may not park at or travel to any location,
including locations contiguous to and fronting the hazardous material route,
for any period of time except to pick up or deliver hazardous material, provide
services, or seek repairs for the commercial motor vehicle at a legitimate
repair facility.
   (D)   Alternate routes. Whenever any street or roadway designated as a truck
route is under repair, or otherwise temporarily out of use, the chief of police
shall be authorized to designate alternate truck routes.
(Ord. 491, passed 10-17-16)
ABOVE GROUND STORAGE TANKS
§ 91.15 ABOVE GROUND STORAGE TANKS PROHIBITED AT SERVICE STATIONS.
   All service stations located within the city limits are hereby prohibited
from maintaining above ground storage tanks for gasoline or other highly
inflammable materials.
(Ord. 34, passed 2-25-69) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.16 EXEMPTION.
   All service stations at the time of passage of this subchapter having
existing above ground storage tanks containing gasoline or other highly
inflammable materials are hereby exempt from the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 34, passed 2-25-69)
FIRE LANES
§ 91.20 FIRE LANES.
   (A)   Orders establishing fire lanes. The White Flail Fire Department is
hereby authorized to order the establishment of fire lanes on public or private
property as may be necessary in order that the travel of fire equipment may not
be interfered with and that access to fire hydrants or buildings may not be
obstructed.
   (B)   Signs and markings of fire lanes. When a fire lane has been ordered to
be established pursuant to this section, it shall be marked by painting the
curbs red with 4 inch white lettering bearing the words "Fire Lane" with a
distance of no more than 40 feet apart When the fire lane is on public property
or a public right-of-way, the sign or signs shall be erected by the City; and
when on private property, they shall be erected by owner at his own expense
within 30 days after he has been notified of the order.
   (C)   Parking or otherwise obstructing prohibited. After a sign or signs
have been erected in accordance with division (B) of this subchapter, no person
shall park a vehicle or otherwise occupy or obstruct the fire lane.
(Ord. 491, passed 10-17-16)
FIRE HAZARD
§ 91.30 FIRE HAZARD PROHIBITED.
   A person shall not construct erect, install, maintain, or use any
incinerator or barbeque pit or grill or so burn any combustible material within
15 feet of any combustible surface including but not limited to decks, porches,
balconies, walls, or verandas. This also includes beneath any balcony, porch,
roof overhang, deck or veranda.
(Ord. 491, passed 10-17-16)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person or persons violating §§
91.01 through
91.03 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be fined in
any sum not less than $50 or not more than $1,000 or imprisoned in the jail for
a period not exceeding 30 days or both. This may include the restitution for
damages as the result of the harm caused to the property/person of another upon
a judgement or conviction for a violation of said sections in the city court.
(Ord. 139, passed 9-12-83; Am. Ord. 209, passed 9-14-92; Am. Ord. 491, passed
10-17-16)
   (B)   Any person, firm, corporation or agent who shall violate any
provisions of §§
91.10,
91.15,
91.16,
91.20 and
91.30 or fail to comply therewith shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Each such
person, firm, corporation or agent shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense
for each and every day or portion thereof during which any violation is
committed, or continued and upon conviction of any such violation, such person
shall be punished within the limits and as provided by state law.
(Ord. 34, passed 2-25-69; Am. Ord. 491, passed 10-17-16)
CHAPTER 92: AMBULANCE SERVICES
Section
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Purpose and intent
   
92.03   Franchise granted
   
92.04   Operation on fee or for-hire basis
   
92.05   Intracity ambulance service
   
92.06   Control by the City Council
   
92.07   Standards of production and performance
   
92.08   Ambulance and dispatch personnel certification required
   
92.09   Insurance
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADVANCED LIFE SUPPORT (ALS). A level of emergency services provided by an
emergency medical technician-paramedic (EMT-P) trained at the level of Advanced
Life Support, including resuscitation techniques such as intubations,
intravenous access, and cardiac monitoring.
   AMBULANCE. Any motor vehicle equipped with facilities to convey infirm or
injured persons in a reclining position.
   AMBULANCE AUTHORITY. The City Council for the City of White Hall, Arkansas.
   AMBULANCE CONTROL CENTER. The facility designated by the authority from
which all ambulances are dispatched and controlled.
   AMBULANCE DISTRICT. Any of the geographic subdivisions of the city and other
contracted areas established for ambulance service planning and evaluation
purposes by the ambulance authority.
   AMBULANCE PATIENT. Any person who is ill, infirm, injured or otherwise
incapacitated, bedridden, or helpless, and requires or requests ambulance
services or helicopter rescue service to or from a hospital, physician's
office, nursing home, or other health care facility.
   AMBULANCE PERSONNEL. Paramedics and emergency medical technicians.
   AMBULANCE RUN. A patient transported by ambulance on a for-hire fee for
service or prepaid capitation basis.
   AMBULANCE SERVICE. Any business or service established to transport patients
from one place to another within the city or other contracted area by an
ambulance.
   AMBULANCE SERVICE AREA. That area which is contained within the boundaries
of the municipal limits of the city and the area of those jurisdictions
participating by interlocal agreement in the EASI system.
   BASIC LIFE SUPPORT (BLS). A level of emergency service provided by an
emergency medical technician (EMT) that includes basic techniques such a
bleeding control, simple airway maneuvers, and administration of oxygen.
   DISPATCHER. Any person who works in the ambulance control center and
dispatches ambulances.
   DRIVER. Any person who is certified by the license officer to drive
ambulances in the city.
   EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN or EMT. Any person certified by the state as an
emergency medical technician.
   EXCLUSIVE FRANCHISE. The exclusive right to engage in all emergency and non-
emergency intracity patient transports and intercity and intracounty patient
transports originating from within the city. This definition also includes the
authority's operating area as established by interlocal agreement.
   INTERCITY PATIENT TRANSPORT. An ambulance run which transports a patient
from a point within the city to another city, or from another city to a point
inside the city.
   INTRACITY PATIENT TRANSPORT. An ambulance run which transports a patient
from one point to another within the city.
   LICENSE OFFICER. The authorized agent of the city.
   MEDICAL AUDIT. An official inquiry into the circumstances involving an
ambulance run or request for services.
   PARAMEDIC. A person certified by the state as a paramedic.
   RESPONSE TIME. The actual elapsed time between receipt of notification at
the EMS control center that an ambulance is needed at an identifiable location
and the arrival of an ambulance at that location.
   SENIOR PARAMEDIC IN CHARGE. That individual among the certified personnel on
board an ambulance unit who is not the driver and who is a paramedic currently
certified under state law, and who is designated by his employer or immediate
supervisor as the individual in command of the ambulance and its operation.
   SYSTEM STATUS MANAGEMENT. The formal and orderly process of continuously
locating ambulance units available for dispatch among post locations throughout
the geographic area being served to maintain the best possible readiness
configuration at all times.
(Ord. 507, passed 2-20-18)
§ 92.02 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to establish a regulated
ambulance service system that can provide each ambulance patient with the best
possible chance of survival without disability of preventable complication.
   (B)   General intent. It is the intent of the City Council that:
      (1)   Exclusivity is mandatory because it is neither fair nor financially
feasible to require a high level of emergency performance from one ambulance
company while simultaneously allowing other ambulance companies to select
certain preferred non-emergency business.
      (2)   Substantive regulation requiring clinical excellence and citywide
lifesaving response time performance cannot reasonably be imposed on an
unsubsidized ambulance company without simultaneously granting that ambulance
company an exclusive contract to furnish all ambulance service, both emergency
and non-emergency, to the residents of the city.
      (3)   The City Council has determined it appropriate for an exclusive
contract for ambulance service be granted to EASI, Inc.
      (4)   This chapter will:
         (a)   Furnish bona fide monitoring and medical control of present
ambulance operations.
         (b)   Require the development of a first responder program.
      (5)   EASI shall be required to:
         (a)   Have one ALS level ambulance stationed in the city limits of
White Hall and have back up EASI units available when system permits.
         (b)   Provide staffing to ensure that EASI adheres to the national
standard for response times (90% in eight minutes 59 seconds or less).
         (c)   Design the communication system and control center operation to
allow for full time recording of all ambulance related radio and telephone
traffic.
         (d)   Provide rescue and recovery services for the City of White Hall.
         (e)   Transport patients to the "closest appropriate facility" per
state EMS rules and regulations. At patient request, EASI shall transport to a
Little Rock hospital if patient is stable and/or the system allows.
         (f)   Provide Emergency Medical Dispatchers 24 hours a day, seven days
a week, and continue to be a secondary PSAP for MECA.
         (g)   Continue to utilize the AWINS radio system to enable EASI to
talk to other emergency services (police, fire, and the like) operating in the
City of White Hall and Jefferson County.
         (h)   Operate in conformity with the rules and regulations pertaining
to emergency medical services of the Arkansas Department of Health and the laws
of the State of Arkansas.
(Ord. 507, passed 2-20-18)
§ 92.03 FRANCHISE GRANTED.
   Emergency Ambulance Service, Inc. (EASl) is granted an exclusive franchise
to provide an Advanced Life Support (ALS) ambulance service on a fee for
service basis in the City of White Hall, Arkansas for a term of five years.
This contract shall automatically renew unless either party submits written
notice to the other party of its intent to terminate this franchise.
(Ord. 507, passed 2-20-18)
§ 92.04 OPERATION ON FEE OR FIRE-HIRE BASIS.
   Except as provided herein, no person or entity, public or private, shall
operate an ambulance to transport the sick, injured, or infirm on a fee or for-
hire basis, regardless of whether an emergency or routine non-emergency patient
transport, upon any street within the city or other contracted areas. No
subsidy shall be paid by the city to the ambulance service.
(Ord. 507, passed 2-20-2018)
§ 92.05 INTRACITY AMBULANCE SERVICE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or entity, public or private, to operate
an intracity ambulance service, which provides emergency or non-emergency pre-
hospital care or patient transports, except as specifically allowed pursuant to
the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 507, passed 2-20-18)
§ 92.06 CONTROL BY THE CITY COUNCIL.
   The City Council of the City of White Hall may enact rules and regulations
pertaining to the operation of the ambulance service for the benefit of its
citizens.
(Ord. 507, passed 2-20-18)
§ 92.07 STANDARDS OF PRODUCTION AND PERFORMANCE.
   EASI shall adhere to the following as minimum standards.
   (A)   Equipment and management capability. Each and every ambulance and all
onboard equipment utilized by the authority in performing services which are
the subject of this chapter shall comply with applicable standards required for
licensure. The authority shall maintain the equipment and shall employ
sufficient backup equipment to ensure that a safe level of reserve equipment
capacity is available to provide peak period ambulance coverage even at times
when unusual occurrences of equipment breakdown and routine equipment
maintenance coincide.
   (B)   Personnel. The authority shall ensure that two persons certified under
state law are on board each ambulance on ALS ambulance runs or available for
dispatch, at least one of which is certified as a paramedic, and the other of
which is certified as a paramedic or emergency medical technician (EMT).
   (C)   Response time performance. Code 3 Calls (life threatening emergencies)
- the authority shall furnish a diligent good faith effort to maintain an eight
minute 59 second maximum response time for an Advanced Life Support paramedic
ambulance. The authority shall employ enough personnel, acquire enough
equipment, and manage its resources in the manner necessary to meet the eight-
minute response time standard on not less than 90% of all presumptively
designated Code 1 Calls originating each month from within the city limits.
   (D)   Continuous physician medical control required. EASI shall be
responsible for ensuring that its field personnel at all times have access to
qualified medical control and direction concerning the care of patients in the
field by a base station physician or nurse. All medical control and direction
shall be available by reliable radio communications, according to the
communications standards and other standards of medical control set forth
herein.
   (E)   Refusal to render emergency care prohibited. It is a violation of this
chapter to fail to respond to a call to provide emergency ambulance service, to
render first-aid treatment as is necessary, or to otherwise refuse to provide
any emergency ambulance services within the scope of the ambulance operations,
provided that these services are not required if the patient refuses to consent
to treatment.
(Ord. 507, passed 2-20-18)
§ 92.08 AMBULANCE AND DISPATCH PERSONNEL CERTIFICATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   General requirements for ambulance personnel. 
      (1)   Every ALS ambulance subject to regulation under this chapter is
required to have on board each ambulance unit at least two personnel certified
under these regulations. At least one person must be certified as a paramedic,
and the other person must be certified as both driver and as either a paramedic
or an emergency medical technician (EMT). If an ambulance unit is manned by one
paramedic and one EMT, the EMT shall serve as driver even if both persons
possess ambulance driver certifications. In such cases, the paramedic shall be
responsible for directing patient care and ambulance operations in general at
all times. If two paramedics serve on the same unit, one shall be designated as
senior paramedic in charge by the director of operations or the shift
supervisor.
      (2)   Every BLS ambulance subject to regulation under this chapter is
required to have on board two EMT's, one to drive and another to attend.
      (3)   No person shall be employed or otherwise permitted to drive or
attend ambulances subject to this chapter, unless he shall hold a currently
valid state certification and is nationally registered as a paramedic or EMT.
It shall be unlawful for any person to serve on an ambulance or helicopter
rescue unit as ambulance personnel unless that person has in his possession a
currently valid state license.
   (B)   General responsibilities for dispatchers. Any person employed for the
purpose of receiving telephone or other requests for ambulance service and for
dispatching ambulances in the city ambulance service system is required to
receive emergency medical dispatch training as provided by or equal to that
provided by the authority.
(Ord. 507, passed 2-20-18)
§ 92.09 INSURANCE.
   (A)   EASI shall maintain the following minimum insurance:
      (1)   Automobile liability insurance in an amount not less than $100,000
for injury to or death of, one person, by reason of the carelessness or
negligence of the driver of such ambulance; $300,000 for injury to, or death
of, more than one person, resulting from any single accident, by reason of the
carelessness or negligence of the driver of such ambulance; and $50,000 for
damage to property resulting from any single accident, by reason of the
carelessness or negligence of the driver of such ambulance, issued by an
insurance company licensed to do business in the state for each and every
ambulance owned or operated, or both owned and operated by the ambulance
authority, providing for the payment of damages:
         (a)   For injury to or death of individuals in accidents resulting
from any cause for which the owner of the vehicle would be liable on account of
liability imposed on him by law, regardless of whether the ambulance was being
driven by the owner or his agent; and
         (b)   For the loss or damage to the property of another under like
circumstances.
      (2)   Uninsured motorist coverage in an amount equal to the bodily injury
liability limits as set forth in division (A)(1) above.
      (3)   Malpractice insurance providing a limitation on each claim of not
less than $500,000.
      (4)   A $1,000,000 umbrella policy providing additional coverage to all
underlying liability policies.
   (B)   The insurance policies shall be submitted to the City Attorney for
approval. Satisfactory evidence that such insurance is at all times in force
and effect shall be furnished to the City Attorney, in such form as he may
specify.
   (C)   Every insurance policy required hereunder shall contain a provision
for continuing liability thereunder to the full amount thereof, notwithstanding
any recovery thereon, that the liability of the insurer shall not be affected
by bankruptcy of the assured, and that until the policy is revoked or expires,
the insurance company will not be relieved from liability on account of
nonpayment of premium, failure to renew license at the end of the year, or any
act or omission of the name assured. Such policy of insurance shall be further
conditioned for the payment of any judgments up to the limits of the policy
recovered against any person other than the owner, his agents, or employee, who
may operate the same with the consent or acquiescence of the owner.
   (D)   Every insurance policy shall extend for the period to be covered by
the license applied for, and the insurer shall be obligated to give not less
than 30 days written notice to the insured before any cancellation or
termination thereof earlier than its expiration date. The cancellation or other
termination of any such policy shall automatically revoke and terminate the
permits issued for the ambulances covered by such policy, unless another
insurance policy complying with the provisions of this section is provided and
in effect at the time of such cancellation or termination.
(Ord. 507, passed 2-20-18)
CHAPTER 93: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
Regulations
   
93.01   Persons prohibited in park during certain hours
   
93.02   Vehicles and certain animals to stay on roadways and parking lots
   
93.03   Advertising of alcoholic beverages prohibited
   
93.04   Loitering, misconduct, and improper assembly prohibited
   
93.05   Possession or use of tobacco by persons under age of 18 prohibited
Park Committee
   
93.15   Creation and appointment
   
93.16   Duties
 
   
93.99   Penalty
REGULATIONS
§ 93.01 PERSONS PROHIBITED IN PARK DURING CERTAIN HOURS.
   (A)   The presence of any person or persons within the confines of the
boundaries of the city park, between the hours of 10:30 P.M. or 30 minutes
after organized activities have ceased and the daylight hours of the next day,
is prohibited.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to city personnel or law enforcement
officers in the course of enforcing this section.
(Ord. 195, passed 9-9-91) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.02 VEHICLES AND CERTAIN ANIMALS TO STAY ON ROADWAYS AND PARKING LOTS.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any motor vehicle, to ride or lead any horse
in the park of the city, except upon roadways and parking lots in the park.
(Ord. 94, passed 1-12-76) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 ADVERTISING OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES PROHIBITED.
   The advertising of any alcoholic beverage is prohibited on property
controlled by the Park Commission. Advertising referred to in this section
includes signs, or sponsorship of any team regularly using the fields by an
alcoholic beverage company.
(Ord. 188, passed 5-14-90) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 LOITERING, MISCONDUCT, AND IMPROPER ASSEMBLY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   All persons who enter or remain on any property which is a part of the
City Park System shall use and enjoy the same for its intended purpose. Should
any person engage in any conduct which would constitute a violation of state
criminal statutes, city or county ordinances, or otherwise loiter, engage in
misconduct or assemble with one or more persons for no legitimate purpose, they
shall be in violation of this section.
   (B)   Any certified police officer may, at their discretion, cite juveniles
for any criminal violation to the juvenile court and cite any adult for a
criminal violation to a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (C)   As an alternative to or in addition to any criminal charges brought in
a court of law, a police officer may direct any violator of this section to
leave the City Park System; and,
      (1)   If the violator is a juvenile, the officer shall provide a written
warning to the parent or legal guardian, with a copy of the same to the Mayor.
The parent or legal guardian shall be informed that the juvenile shall not
again be allowed to re-enter the park property until approved to do so by the
Mayor.
      (2)   If the violator is an adult, the officer shall provide them with a
written warning, with a copy of the same to the Mayor. They shall be informed
that they shall not again re-enter the park property until approved to do so by
the Mayor.
   (D)   The Mayor, after reviewing the facts attendant to the violation of
this section, may prohibit the use of the City Park System for a period not to
exceed 90 days for a first offense, and for a period not to exceed one year for
a second offense. Any juvenile or adult who regularly participates in scheduled
activities may be permitted to re-enter the City Park System to participate in
that activity but shall immediately thereafter leave. If the person is a
juvenile, they must be accompanied by a parent or legal guardian under this
exemption. In addition to other powers granted, the Mayor may prohibit the
violator's use of a motor vehicle within the City Park System.
   (E)   Any parent or legal guardian whose juvenile child shall enter or
remain unlawfully upon city park property without the consent of the Mayor
shall be in violation of this section and subject to a fine not to exceed $100.
   (F)   Any juvenile or adult who has been issued a warning/notice pursuant to
this section and who has not been approved for re-entry or has been excluded
from use of the City Park System, and who
re-enters park property, shall be guilty of criminal trespass and may be cited
for such a violation in a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (G)   Any parent or legal guardian on behalf of a juvenile or any adult who
has been excluded from the City Park System for more than 14 days may appeal
the action of the Mayor to the City Council. This appeal must be filed within
five days of any order issued by the Mayor and filed with the City Clerk.
(Ord. 251, passed 3-17-97)
§ 93.05 POSSESSION OR USE OF TOBACCO BY PERSONS UNDER AGE OF 18 PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
   TOBACCO PRODUCTS. All products which contain loose leaf or compressed
tobacco, and products which are recognized and taxed by the state as tobacco
products.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 18 years to use
or possess any tobacco product within the confines of the City Park System.
   (C)   Any city official may direct a violator of this section to leave the
City Park System, and the violator shall not be permitted to return until
granted permission by the Mayor.
   (D)   Any certified police officers, at their discretion, may cite a
violation of this section to the County Juvenile Court or file a report with
the Mayor asking for their continued exclusion from the City Park System.
   (E)   The Mayor, at his discretion, may impose such restrictions as deemed
necessary to effect compliance with this section, up to and including permanent
expulsion; provided, however, that permanent expulsion shall not be imposed for
a first offense.
   (F)   Any juvenile that has not been approved for re-entry or who has been
excluded by order of the Mayor and who then reenters the City Park System shall
be guilty of criminal trespass and may be cited for such violation in the
County Juvenile Court.
(Ord. 252, passed 3-17-97)
PARK COMMITTEE
§ 93.15 CREATION AND APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby created a committee of the city, to be known as the
“White Hall Park Committee,” which shall consist of five members who shall
serve without compensation and who shall be qualified electors of the city.
   (B)   The members of the Park Committee shall be named, appointed, confirmed
and function in accordance with the provisions of Arkansas Statutes now in
effect or that may hereafter be enacted.
(Ord. 20, passed 6-28-66)
§ 93.16 DUTIES.
   The Park Committee shall have all the duties and functions as pertaining to
the operation of all parks and recreational facilities owned or operated by the
city in accordance with the statutes of the State of Arkansas now in effect or
that may hereafter be enacted.
(Ord. 20, passed 6-28-66)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty is
otherwise specifically provided shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Whoever violates the provisions of §
93.01 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be
fined in any sum not less than $50 nor more than $100. (Ord. 195, passed 9-9-
91)
   (C)   Whoever violates the provisions of §
93.02 shall be deemed guilty of a violation and shall be punished upon
conviction by fine in any sum not less than $5 nor more than $100.00. (Ord. 94,
passed 1-12-76)
CHAPTER 94: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Acceptance of public streets
   
94.02   Burning prohibited on city streets
Excavations
   
94.11   Purpose and scope
   
94.12   Definitions
   
94.13   Permit required
   
94.14   General standards
   
94.15   Restoration
   
94.16   Permits and fees
   
94.17   Shared excavations or cuts
   
94.18   Premiums
Driveway Construction
   
94.25   Requirements for constructing driveway over ditch
 
   
94.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Street naming and building numbering, see §§
150.30 through
150.39
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 ACCEPTANCE OF PUBLIC STREETS.
   All streets and alleys within the corporate limits of the city that have
been dedicated to the public by any deed, writing, or bill of assurance,
properly acknowledged, and recorded in the office of the County Recorder of
Deed are hereby accepted as public streets or alleys of the city and the Mayor,
by virtue of his authority, is hereby directed to take jurisdiction of the same
on behalf of the city.
(Ord. 1, passed 10-29-64)
§ 94.02 BURNING PROHIBITED ON CITY STREETS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to burn material within one foot any city street
within the city limits.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn material on the surface of
any street within the city limits.
(Ord. 297, passed 7-24-00; Am. Ord. 300, passed 8-21-00) Penalty, see §
94.99
EXCAVATIONS
§ 94.11 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   The city has experienced development, construction and maintenance
operations by utilities and other entities which require excavations and cuts
in public streets, alleys, and other properties. These excavations or cuts
occur because of such things as the installation of water lines, sanitary
sewers, drainage structures, other utilities, or the replacement, improvement
or maintenance of such systems. When these excavations or cuts occur,
significant problems face the city because of the vast number of cuts, the
occasional poor restoration techniques, or the multiple cuts in the same area
by different entities because there is no need to contact other utilities. As a
result, there is a real potential for serious deterioration of the paved
rights-of-way and, on occasion, a possible hidden threat to the public safety.
As a result, an ordinance is required that sets forth in detail the
responsibilities of any entity that uses the public rights-of-way, through
franchise or other legal authority, and in the course of, or in furtherance of,
that use, causes excavations or cuts to occur.
(Ord. 461, passed 1-21-14)
§ 94.12 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. Any person, firm, corporation, partnership, or association of any
nature whatsoever, including any governmental entity, seeking a permit to make,
or cause to be made, any excavation, cut or boring in any city street, alley,
or other public property.
   CITY PUBLIC WORKS SUPERVISOR. The Public Works Supervisor, or designee,
responsible for enforcing the terms of this subchapter.
   PERMIT HOLDER. Any applicant that has been granted a permit pursuant to the
terms of this subchapter.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.  Any city street, alley, or other public property.
(Ord. 461, passed 1-21-14)
§ 94.13 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Except as set forth in division (B), it shall be unlawful for
applicant, to make or cause to be made any excavation or cut in the public
right-of-way without having first obtained a written permit.
   (B)   A written permit is not required prior to an excavation, cut or boring
of any public right-of-way if, and only if:
      (1)   The excavation, cut or bore is made as a result of an emergency
situation in which the destruction of life or property is imminent or is
necessary to restore basic service; and
      (2)   The City Public Works Supervisor is notified at the earliest
possible moment, but in any event, no later than 9:00 a.m. the first business
day after the excavation, cut or bore is made.
(Ord. 461, passed 1-21-14)
§ 94.14 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   Safety.  All excavations shall be properly barricaded and lighted
sufficiently to give due and proper notice to all persons of the excavation.
The person making each excavation shall properly barricade and light such
excavation and maintain such lights and barricades.
   (B)   The Public Works Director shall direct that a process for obtaining
permits to make excavations, cuts or bores in the public right-of-way is
established and published. This process shall include, among other things:
      (1)   The name of the appropriate city department to contact in order to
obtain a permit, or to report an emergency excavation or cut;
      (2)   The city department that will be responsible for the day to day
administration and enforcement of this subchapter;
      (3)   The process for notifying other public utilities of an intent to
make an excavation or cut in the public right-of-way in order to participate in
the excavation or cut;
      (4)   The time frame for submitting plans to the appropriate department
for the work to be done, including the restoration work required, with notice
than no permit shall be issued until the review process has been completed;
      (5)   The city department responsible for approving the barricade plan to
be in place while the excavation, cutting or boring occurs;
      (6)   The temporary and permanent restoration requirements to be met
during the course of, or the completion of, the excavation, cutting or boring
including, but not limited to, the type and grade of materials that shall be
required.
   (C)   Boring preferred. Notwithstanding any other provision of this
subchapter, it is the preference of the city that boring or pushing of utility
services under city streets, alleys, or other public property, occur instead of
excavations or cuts. Even so, the permitting process set forth in this
subchapter shall be met, and all tunneling plans shall be subject to approval
of the City Public Works Supervisor.
   (D)   Surety bond. The City Public Works Supervisor shall determine the
amount of any surety bond that is appropriate to ensure the completion of a
project and fulfillment of all requirements set forth in this subchapter and
the procedures adopted pursuant to the subchapter:
      (1)   The applicant shall post the required bond as an additional
condition to the issuance of a permit to excavate, cut or bore in the public
right-of-way.
      (2)   The failure to post this bond in a timely manner shall be the basis
for denying a permit, or the basis for revoking a permit previously issued.
      (3)   This surety bond shall remain in place at least for the period of
time necessary to complete the work set forth in the permit and, may be
required for such additional period of time as deemed appropriate by the City
Public Works Supervisor.
      (4)   Notwithstanding the above listed requirements, if the permit
application is only for minor maintenance work, a permit may be issued without
further review to an applicant who has a $10,000 corporate surety bond on file
with the City Clerk-Treasurer, provided that after the issuance of the permit,
additional surety may be required if the City Public Works Supervisor
determines that such security is necessary to ensure the completion of the
project.
   (E)   Paint or marking compounds.  No permanent paint or marking compound
shall be used to locate the right-of-way, or for any other purpose associated
with the boring, excavation or cut of the public streets, alleys, or public
property. Any temporary paint or marking compound used shall be of a type that
will deteriorate over time, but in any event, will not be discernible 30 days
after it is applied regardless of the date that work under any permit is
completed.
   (F)   City signs, conduits or facilities to be undisturbed. No work done
under a permit issued pursuant to this subchapter shall disturb any city signs,
conduits, or other facilities unless expressly permitted by the City Public
Works Supervisor.
   (G)   Minimum width.  All excavations or cuts paved surfaces shall have a
minimum uniform width of 12 inches unless a different width is expressly
authorized by the City Public Works Supervisor. All excavations, or cuts in
paved surfaces shall be smoothly cut or sawed and shall have a neat appearance.
(Ord. 461, passed 1-21-14)
§ 94.15 RESTORATION.
   (A)   Restoration required. Any boring, excavation. or cut, made pursuant to
the terms of this subchapter shall be restored. Temporary restoration shall
occur immediately upon completion of the work that required the boring,
excavation or cut. Permanent restoration shall be completed by the applicant
or, if agreed to in writing with the city, shall be completed by the city.
   (B)   Resurfacing. The applicant shall resurface the full width of any
street lane and replace pavement markings in the public right-of-way where
there has been an excavation or cut. If the city has scheduled a resurfacing
project which includes the applicant’s permitted area, the applicant and the
city may contractually agree for the applicant to pay a proportionate share of
the city’s costs of resurfacing rather than requiring the applicant to
resurface the area.
   (C)   Temporary restoration.
      (1)   If any person makes an excavation during the day, he or she must
fill the trench with acceptable fill material immediately after the improvement
has been laid and inspected. This will eliminate the hazards involved with
having an open trench for a long period of time.
      (2)   The person responsible for improved street and alley excavations
shall be responsible for excess fill dirt, dust or any foreign matter caused by
such excavation. The person that has made an excavation shall control such
items by whatever means that are necessary in order to preserve the health,
safety and peace of the citizens of the city.
      (3)   Inspections shall be made by the city of any temporary restoration.
If the temporary restoration does not meet the standards of this subchapter,
then the permit holder shall be required to correct the situation within 48
hours. If it becomes necessary for any city employee to answer a call
concerning any excavation between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m., the
person responsible for such excavation shall pay to the city the sum of $50 per
call.
      (4)   In order to minimize the damage done to streets and/or alleys, no
excavations will be made in any improved street or alley during inclement
weather. The City Public Works Supervisor or his or her representative shall
determine when any excavation is permissible.
      (5)   Materials removed while cutting and digging the excavation site to
make repairs may not be used to refill any area that is part of the asphalted
street or part of a concrete driving lane or driveway and shall be removed from
the excavation site the same day the excavation is made and disposed of in a
proper manner. In making an excavation, the flowline of any ditch at the site
may not be impeded. Dirt must be replaced and landscaped back to the original
flowline and condition and any private property affected must be repaired and
landscaped to its condition prior to the excavation.
      (6)   Where such improved streets or alleys are cut, the dirt shall be
hauled away and the trench shall be backfilled with Bab or SB-2 crushed stone,
preferably Bab. The fill material shall be saturated so as to obtain maximum
settlement instantaneously. The trench shall be filled to the top with the fill
material. After the fill material has been watered down and settled, the person
making the excavation shall call the Public Works Supervisor or his or her
representative for an inspection of the trench. If the trench is approved by
the Public Works Supervisor or his or her representative, the person who made
the excavation will be instructed to proceed with the repairs of the improved
street or alley in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
      (7)   The top six inches of backfill material shall be compacted to the
satisfaction of the City Public Works Supervisor.
      (8)   Excavations must be back-filled by the utility company with a
select material, to wit: sand up to the tope of the pipe, no higher, compacted
with SB-2, Babs, or flowable fill from the top of the pipe to street elevation
in six-inch lifts.
      (9)   The surface course shall consist of a two inch application of cold
mix asphalt for asphalt streets, concrete streets or streets with single or
double penetration surface treatments. For gravel streets and alleys, the top
six inches of backfill material shall meet Class 7 of the most current Arkansas
State Highway Commission Standard Specifications, and shall be compacted to
conform to the surrounding surface.
      (10)   The applicant is permitted to use any or all of the following as
backfill material:
         (a)   Crushed rock and natural fines uniformly mixed and so
proportioned as to meet the specifications for Class 7 as reflected in the most
recent edition of the Arkansas State Highway Commission Standard
Specifications.
         (b)   Crushed rock, or other selected material approved by the City
Public Works Supervisor or his or her designee, that is free of debris and
excess moisture.
         (c)   Compacted river sand or lean mix concrete if the use of this
material has been previously approved by the City Public Works Supervisor.
      (11)   The applicant is wholly responsible for making temporary
restorations consistent with the standards set forth in this subchapter. Any
temporary restoration must be of sufficient quality, as determined by the City
Public Works Supervisor, to bring the city street, alley, or public property,
back to its original usefulness and must be capable of supporting normal
traffic use for a period of 30 days.
      (12)   Any temporary restoration shall be replaced by the applicant with
the appropriate permanent restoration within 35 days of the date of issuance of
permit. Any temporary restorations remaining after that time shall be repaired
by the city and the cost of such repair shall be paid by the permit holder or
shall be claimed from the surety bond required pursuant to this subchapter. The
City Public Works Supervisor shall grant an extension of the 35 days if a delay
is caused by inclement weather. In such case, the applicant will be responsible
for temporary repairs until permanent restoration is in place.
   (D)   Permanent restoration.
      (1)   Unless otherwise agreed to in writing by the City Public Works
Supervisor and the applicant, the applicant shall make all permanent
restorations of any street or alley pavement in which there has been a boring,
excavation, or cut made pursuant to this subchapter.
      (2)   Permanent restoration of city streets shall be as follows:
         (a)   Except as set forth in this division, all backfill and
compaction requirements shall comply with division (C) concerning temporary
restorations, and backfill material shall be removed to a depth of eight
inches. Further:
            1.   If the street is concrete, eight inches of 3,000 pound per
square inch P.C. concrete, meeting the specifications of the Arkansas Highway
Department, shall be placed to provide the final restored surface. The width of
replaced concrete shall be at least 12 inches wider than the trench width so as
to allow at least six inches overlap of slab over trench walls. The replaced
concrete shall be reinforced with double layer six inches by six inches, ten-
gauge wire mesh or 3/8-inch round reinforced rods spaced on ten-inch centers
both ways. The thickness of the concrete shall match the existing thickness and
in no instance shall be less than eight inches thick. The finished concrete
shall conform to proper grade and alignment.
            2.   If the street is asphalt, eight inches of 3,000 psi P.C.
concrete, meeting the specifications of the Arkansas Highway Department, shall
be placed to provide the final restored surface or the City Public Works
Supervisor may authorize filing of the top six inches of the trench with a
material other than concrete (such as SB2). After such material has been
compacted in a manner acceptable to the City Public Works Supervisor, two
inches of compacted hot mix or cold asphalt shall be placed on the fill
material so as to conform to the proper grade and alignment. The width of
replaced asphalt shall be at least 12 inches wider than the trench width so as
to allow at least six inches overlap of slab over trench walls.
            3.   In cases where the excavation is made in, and approximately
parallel with, an improved street or alley, the city engineer may authorize
filling of the top six inches of the trench with a material other than concrete
(such as SB2). After such material has been compacted in a manner acceptable to
the City Public Works Supervisor, two inches of compacted hot mix or cold
asphalt shall be placed on the fill material so as to conform to the proper
grade and alignment.
         (b)   If the surface is gravel, gravel shall be added as required and
compacted to conform with the surrounding surface.
   (E)   Notice. Applicants authorized, or required, to make permanent
restorations pursuant to this subchapter shall notify the City Public Works
Supervisor by 9:00 a.m. on the first business day after the completion of the
permanent restoration for each permit.
   (F)   Sidewalks, driveways or curbs.  All removed or undercut sidewalks,
driveways and curbs shall be restored by the permit holder in accordance with
this subchapter and any other applicable ordinance. The applicant shall be
responsible for protecting any shoulders, ditches, and other drainage
structures in the work area and, if damaged in any way whatsoever during the
time of the permit, shall make all necessary repairs.
   (G)   Grasses and vegetation. To the extent possible, the applicant shall
restore or replace all planted grasses and vegetation, including trees of the
same height and character. The City Public Works Supervisor shall permit
modifications to this aspect of the restoration plan in appropriate cases.
Notification of completion shall be in compliance with the standards
established by the City Public Works Supervisor.
   (H)   Excess material or debris. When any temporary or final restoration is
completed, all excess material, debris, mud, or other foreign materials shall
be removed from the street, alley, or other public property involved in the
permit, and the surface shall, to the satisfaction of the City Public Works
Supervisor, be restored to its original condition.
   (I)   Agreements for final restoration not prohibited. Nothing in this
subchapter shall prohibit the city from entering into written agreements with
any permit holder concerning the final restorations, provided that the terms of
any such agreements shall comply with the requirements of this subchapter or
shall be determined by the City Public Works Supervisor to utilize new
procedures that comply with the purposes of this subchapter, and, provided
further, that the city shall receive a reasonable inspection fee for the final
inspection of any work done pursuant to such an agreement.
   (J)   Notification.  Notification of completion shall be in compliance with
the standards established by the City Public Works Supervisor.
(Ord. 461, passed 1-21-14)
§ 94.16 PERMITS AND FEES.
   (A)   The Department of Public Works shall issue all permits for boring,
excavations, or cuts in the public rights-of-way as follows:
      (1)   Any work involving extensive longitudinal cuts for the purpose of
installing, maintaining or repairing trunk or main lines shall require multiple
permits:
      (2)   Separate permits shall be required for all service lines;
      (3)   Permit limits shall be determined by existing or planned features
such as manholes, hand holes, junction boxes, directional changes, and street
intersections, but in any event shall not exceed 500 linear feet.
   (B)   Permit fees for the boring, excavation or cut, shall be $2 per foot or
$50, whichever is greater.
   (C)   If the applicant does not do the final restorations to the
satisfaction of the City Public Works Supervisor, then in addition to any other
fee set forth in the subchapter, the city shall bill the permit holder the
actual cost of such restoration and payment shall be the date upon receipt of
this bill.
(Ord. 461, passed 1-21-14)
§ 94.17 SHARED EXCAVATIONS OR CUTS.
   The city has a vested interest in assuring that any disruption of the flow
of traffic, or the digging of any trench, excavation, or cut, in the paved
portion of the public right-of-way, is kept to a minium. In order to facilitate
this interest, the city shall provide notice to any other utility, or entity
known to seek permits under this subchapter that an application for a permit
for other than minor maintenance has been made. Final approval of any permit
shall be withheld for 15 calendar days so any other utility or entity that
desires to do so may make arrangements to simultaneously excavate, cut, lay
conduit, or place equipment in the paved portion of the public right-of-way.
(Ord. 461, passed 1-21-14)
§ 94.18 PREMIUMS.
   In addition to any other cost for fees set forth in the subchapter, whenever
an applicant seeks a permit pursuant to the terms of this subchapter that
involves the excavation or cut in the paved portion of the public right-of-way
that has been improved by paving, reconstruction, or resurfacing within the
immediately preceding five-year period, the applicant may be required to pay
the city the larger sum of $200 per square yard of excavation, or cut, or a
minimum fee of $500 for each excavation or cut made within 12 months of the
date the surface was paved, reconstructed, or resurfaced. In the subsequent 12
month periods, this premium shall be:
 
Period         Basic fee per square yard Minimum fee
13 - 24 months $160                      $400
25 - 36 months $120                      $300
37 - 48        $80                       $200
49 - 60 months $40                       $100
(Ord. 461, passed 1-21-14)
DRIVEWAY CONSTRUCTION
§ 94.25 REQUIREMENTS FOR CONSTRUCTING DRIVEWAY OVER DITCH.
   Every person, firm or corporation constructing a driveway over any public
ditch within the city shall provide some adequate means for the continued flow
of water through said ditch; such opening shall be made by tile or other
materials to be approved by the Street Department of the city.
(Ord. 51, passed 8-24-71) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is otherwise provided shall be subject to the penalty in §
10.99.
   (B)   Whoever violates the provisions of §
94.02 shall be fined as follows:
      (1)   First offense: written warning.
      (2)   Second offense: $50 fine plus city court costs.
      (3)   Third offense: $100 fine plus city court costs.
(Ord. 297, passed 7-24-00)
   (C)   The failure of any person, firm, corporation, governmental entity, or
association of any kind to comply with the provisions of §§
94.11 through
94.18, shall result in a penalty not to exceed $5,000 and a premium fee equal
to twice the amount of any permit fee required by this subchapter. Failure to
comply means that a person, firm, corporation, governmental entity, or
association of any kind, fails to seek a permit to bore, excavate, lay conduit,
or place equipment in any public right-of-way prior to beginning such activity.
   (D)   Whoever violates the provisions of §
94.25 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished upon
conviction in any sum not less than $1 nor more than $15 and each day that said
condition shall exist shall be considered a separate offense. (Ord. 51, passed
8-24-71)
(Am. Ord. 461, passed 1-21-14)
CHAPTER 95: NOISE
Section
   
95.01   Loud and unnecessary noise prohibited
   
95.02   Prohibited acts
   
95.03   Exceptions
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 LOUD AND UNNECESSARY NOISE PROHIBITED.
   The creation of any unreasonably loud, disturbing and unnecessary noises in
the city is prohibited. Noises of such character, intensity and duration, as to
be detrimental to the life or health of any individual, or in the disturbance
of the public peace and welfare is prohibited.
(Ord. 240, passed 10-21-96)
§ 95.02 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   The following acts, among others, are declared to be loud, disturbing and
unnecessary noises in violation of this section, but this enumeration shall not
be deemed to be exclusive.
   (A)   The sounding of any horn or signal device on any automobile,
motorcycle, bus or other vehicle while not in motion, except as a danger signal
if another vehicle is approaching, apparently out of control, or if in motion,
only as a danger signal after or as brakes are being applied and the
deceleration of the vehicle is intended; and, the creation by means of any such
signal device for an unnecessary and unreasonable period of time; and,
   (B)   The loud playing of radios, stereos, televisions, tape decks,
amplifiers, loudspeakers, musical instruments, vehicle alarm systems or other
devices not enumerated here, but which cause loud or irritating noises which
are plainly audible from a distance of 50 feet from its source, or in such a
manner as to annoy or disturb the quiet comfort or repose of persons in any
dwelling, motel, medical office, or other type of residence, or of any persons
in the vicinity, particularly between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.;
and,
   (C)   Yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling or singing on the public
streets, particularly between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., or at any
time or place so as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of any
person in any hospital, medical office, dwelling, motel or any type of
residence, or any person in the vicinity; and,
   (D)   The keeping of any animal, bird or fowl which by causing frequent or
long continued noise shall disturb the comfort or repose of any person in the
vicinity; and,
   (E)   The use of any automobile, motorcycle or vehicle, so out of repair or
so loaded, as to cause loud and unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling or
other noises; and,
   (F)   To discharge into the open air, the exhaust of any mechanical or
electrical engine, stationary internal combustion engine, motor vehicle or
motor boat engine, except through a muffler or other device, which will
effectively prevent loud or explosive noises therefrom.
   (G)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any motor vehicle to use,
or to operate, or cause to be operated upon the streets or highways within the
city limits, any mechanical exhaust or decompression which results in the
practice commonly known as “jake-braking” or “engine-braking.”
      (2)   ENGINE-BRAKING/JAKE-BRAKING. The use or operation of any mechanical
exhaust device designed to aid in the braking, decompression, or deceleration
of any motor vehicle which results in the excessive, loud, unusual, or
explosive noise from such vehicle.
      (3)   The city street department is hereby authorized to post, at
reasonable locations, signs which indicated the prohibition of engine-braking
and/or jake-braking.
(Ord. 240, passed 10-21-96; Am. Ord. 549, passed 3-27-23)
§ 95.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   None of the terms of prohibition of this section shall be applied to or
enforced against:
   (A)   Any emergency vehicle or governmental vehicle while engaged in
necessary public business; and,
   (B)   Excavations or repairs of bridges, streets, highways or utilities, by
or on behalf of the city, county, state or its citizens, during the night, when
the public welfare convenience renders it impossible to perform such work
during the day; and,
   (C)   The reasonable use of amplifiers, loudspeakers or other sound
producing devices, which are used in the course of public addresses, parades,
or other legitimate governmental activity, which is non- commercial in
character.
(Ord, 240, passed 10-21-96)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   The following prescribed penalties may be imposed by a court of competent
jurisdiction, for any violation of this chapter:
   (A)   FIRST OFFENSE: Upon a conviction, plea of guilty or nolo contendere,
the violator may be subject to a fine, not to exceed $150, plus the cost of
court.
   (B)   SECOND OFFENSE: Upon a conviction, plea of guilty or nolo contendere
to a second or subsequent offense, the violator may be subject to a fine, not
to exceed $250, plus the cost of court.
(Ord. 240, passed 10-21-96)
CHAPTER 96: NUISANCE ABATEMENT AND PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
Section
General Provisions
   
96.001   Title; intent
   
96.002   Applicability
   
96.003   Historic buildings, structures and districts
   
96.004   Maintenance
   
96.005   Requirements not covered by code
   
96.006   Definitions
General Requirements
   
96.020   Scope
   
96.021   Responsibility
   
96.022   Vacant structures and land
   
96.023   Exterior property areas
   
96.024   Swimming pools, spas and hot tubs
   
96.025   Exterior structure
   
96.026   Interior structure
   
96.027   Handrails and guardrails
   
96.028   Rubbish and garbage
   
96.029   Extermination
Light, Ventilation and Occupancy
   
96.040   Scope
   
96.041   Responsibility
   
96.042   Alternative devices
   
96.043   Light
   
96.044   Ventilation
   
96.045   Occupancy limitations
Plumbing Facilities and Fixtures
   
96.055   Scope
   
96.056   Responsibility
   
96.057   Required facilities
   
96.058   Toilet rooms
   
96.059   Plumbing systems and fixtures
   
96.060   Water system
   
96.061   Sanitary drainage system
   
96.062   Storm drainage
Mechanical and Electrical Requirements
   
96.075   Scope
   
96.076   Responsibility
   
96.077   Heating facilities
   
96.078   Mechanical equipment
   
96.079   Electrical facilities
   
96.080   Electrical equipment
   
96.081   Elevators, escalators and dumbwaiters
   
96.082   Duct systems
Fire Safety
   
96.095   Scope
   
96.096   Responsibility
   
96.097   Means of egress
   
96.098   Fire-resistance ratings
   
96.099   Fire protection systems
Nuisances
   
96.110   Intent
   
96.111   Nuisances prohibited
   
96.112   Illustrative enumeration of nuisances
   
96.113   General remedies
   
96.114   Remedies for specific nuisances
Administration and Enforcement
   
96.130   Code enforcement officers
   
96.131   Inspections
   
96.132   Violations
   
96.133   Revocation of certificates, licenses and permits
   
96.134   Procedures; notice of violation
   
96.135   Condemnation
   
96.136   Emergency procedures
   
96.137   Appeals
 
   
96.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 96.001 TITLE; INTENT.
   These regulations shall be known as the White Hall Nuisance Abatement and
Property Maintenance Code and may be referred to herein as “the chapter” or
“this chapter.” These regulations are intended to ensure public health, safety
and welfare insofar as they are affected by the continued occupancy and
maintenance of structures and premises within the City of White Hall, Arkansas.
Code Enforcement Officers may refer to the commentary of similar provisions in
the 2003 edition for International Property Maintenance Code and other property
maintenance codes that are broadly accepted for interpretive guidance.
(Ord. 442, passed 3-19-12)
§ 96.002 APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of the chapter shall apply to all residential and
nonresidential structures and all premises within the City of White Hall,
Arkansas and constitute minimum requirements and standards for premises,
structures, equipment and facilities for light, ventilation, space, heating,
sanitation, protection from the elements, life safety, safety from fire and
other hazards, and for safe and sanitary maintenance; the responsibility of
owners, operators and occupants; the occupancy of existing structures and
premises; and for administration, enforcement and penalties. Structures and
premises that do not comply with these provisions shall be altered or repaired
to provide a minimum level of health and safety as required herein. Repairs,
alterations, additions to and change of occupancy in existing buildings shall
comply with the Arkansas State Fire Prevention Code, Where different standards
or requirements are imposed by this chapter and other competent authority or by
different sections of this chapter, the most restrictive standard or
requirement shall govern.
(Ord. 442, passed 3-19-12) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.003 HISTORIC BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND DISTRICTS.
   Existing buildings or structures designated by the city, the state, or the
U.S. government to be historic or within a designated historic district shall
be exempted from the literal requirements of such provisions of this chapter
that a proper body (such as an historic commission or the City Council)
determines to infringe upon the historic nature of the building or structure.
However, no exemption may be allowed unless the buildings or structures are
judged by the Code Enforcement Officer to be safe and in the public interest of
health, safety and welfare.
(Ord. 442, passed 3-19-12)
§ 96.004 MAINTENANCE.
   Equipment, systems, devices and safeguards required by this chapter or a
previous regulation or code under which the structure or premises was
constructed, altered or required shall be maintained in good working order. No
occupant shall cause any required service, facility, equipment or utility to be
removed from or shut off from or discontinued for any occupied dwelling, except
for temporary interruptions necessitated by repairs or alterations. The
requirements of this chapter are not intended to provide the basis for removal
or abrogation of fire protection and safety systems and devices in existing
structures. Except as otherwise specified herein, the owner shall be
responsible for the maintenance of buildings, structures and premises.
(Ord. 442, passed 3-19-12) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.005 REQUIREMENTS NOT COVERED BY CODE.
   Requirements necessary for the strength, stability or proper operations of
an existing fixture, structure or equipment, or for the public safety, health
and general welfare, not specifically covered by this chapter, shall be
determined by the Code Official. Such decisions are considered to be
administrative determinations subject to appeal as provided by §
96.137. No citations may be issued based upon an administrative decision under
this division until interested parties have been informed about the decision
and been afforded an opportunity to appeal. The Code Enforcement Officer shall
maintain, or cause to be maintained, a file of all administrative rules made
pursuant to this division which shall be available for copy and inspection by
the public.
(Ord. 442, passed 3-19-12)
§ 96.006 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless otherwise expressly stated, the following terms shall, for the
purposes of this chapter, have the meanings shown in this chapter. Where terms
are not defined through the methods authorized by this section, such terms
shall have ordinarily accepted meanings such as the context implies. Whenever
the words “dwelling unit,” “dwelling,” “premises,” “building,” “rooming house,”
“rooming unit,” “housekeeping unit,” or “story” are stated in this chapter,
they shall be construed as though they were followed by the words “or any part
thereof.”
   ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle which is left on public or
private property as defined in this section, for a period of more than 72
hours, regardless of whether wrecked or inoperable.
   APPROVED. Consented or agreed to in writing by the Code Enforcement Officer,
or his proper designee.
   BASEMENT. That portion of a building which is partly or completely below
grade.
   BATHROOM. A room containing plumbing fixtures including a bathtub or shower.
   BEDROOM. Any room or space used or intended to be used for sleeping
purposes.
   BOAT. Any vessel initially designed for the carrying of passengers or cargo
upon the water, whether currently seaworthy or not, and regardless of size or
design, including, without limitation, barges, motorboats whether inboard or
outboard, canoes, rowboats, rafts, and sailboats.
   CARPORT. A roofed structure providing space for the parking of motor
vehicles and enclosed on not more than two sides.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any city employee who has been duly sworn and
authorized to uphold the ordinances of the city and laws of the state related
to property uses, maintenance, nuisances, inspections, issuances of building
permits, certifications and licensing, and the like, within the municipal
boundaries of the city. All duly sworn law enforcement officers of the City
Police Department are authorized to exercise authority as Code Enforcement
Officers.
   CONDEMN. To adjudge unfit for human occupancy.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms located within a structure forming
a single habitable unit with facilities that are used or intended to be used
for living, sleeping, cooking, eating, and sanitation by a household or family.
   EASEMENT. That portion of land or property reserved for present or future
use by a person or agency other than the legal fee owner (s) of the property.
The EASEMENT shall be permitted to be for use under, on or above a said lot or
lots.
   EXTERIOR PROPERTY. The open space on the premises and on adjoining property
under the control of owners or operators of such premises.
   EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rats, or other pests
by eliminating their harborage places; by removing or making inaccessible
materials that serve as their food; by poison spraying, fumigating, trapping or
by any other approved pest elimination method.
   GARBAGE. The animal or vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   GRAFFITI. Any inscription, work, figure, or design that is marked, etched,
scratched, drawn, painted, pasted or otherwise affixed to or on any structural
component of any building, structure, or other permanent facility regardless of
the nature of the material of that structural component, or the nature of the
inscription, to the extent that the same was not authorized in advance by the
owner, or otherwise deemed to be a public nuisance.
   GUARD. A building component or a system of building components located at or
near the open sides of elevated walking surfaces that minimize the possibility
of a fall from the walking surface to the lower level.
   HABITABLE SPACE. Space in a structure for living, sleeping, eating, or
cooking. Bathrooms, toilet rooms, closets, halls, storage or utility spaces,
and similar areas are not considered HABITABLE SPACES.
   HISTORIC. Any existing buildings or structures designated by the city,
state, or the U.S. government to be historic.
   HOUSEKEEPING UNIT. A room or group of rooms forming a single habitable space
equipped and intended to be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating which
does not contain, within such a unit, a toilet, lavatory and bathtub or shower.
   IMMINENT DANGER. A condition which could cause serious or life-threatening
injury or death at any time.
   INFESTATION. The presence, within or contiguous to, a structure or premises
of insects, rats, vermin, or other pests.
   INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle which cannot be driven upon the public
streets for reason including but not limited to being unlicensed, uninsured,
wrecked, abandoned, in a state of disrepair, or incapable of being moved under
its own power.
   LABELED. Devices, equipment, appliances, or materials to which has been
affixed a label, seal, symbol or other identifying mark of a nationally
recognized testing laboratory, inspection agency or other organization
concerned with product evaluation that maintains periodic inspection of the
production of the above-labeled items and by whose label the manufacturer
attests to compliance with applicable nationally recognized standards.
   LET FOR OCCUPANCY or LET. To permit, provide or offer possession or
occupancy of a dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming unit, building, premise or
structure by a person who is or is not the legal owner of record thereof,
pursuant to a written or unwritten lease, agreement or license, or pursuant to
a recorded or unrecorded agreement of contract for the sale of land.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. A machine of conveyance which is self-propelled and designed
to travel along the ground, and includes but is not limited to automobiles,
buses, electric scooters, mopeds bicycles, motorcycles, trucks, tractors, go-
carts, campers, motor homes and trailers.
   NUISANCE. This term is defined in §§
96.110 et seq. of this chapter.
   OCCUPANCY. The purpose for which a building or portion thereof is utilized
or occupied.
   OCCUPANT. Any individual living or sleeping in a building, or having
possession of a space within a building.
   OPENABLE AREA. That part of a window, skylight or door which is available
for unobstructed ventilation and which opens directly to the outdoors.
   OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care or control of a structure or
premises which is let or offered for occupancy.
   OWNER. Any person, agent, operator, firm, or corporation having a legal or
equitable interest in the property; or recorded in the official records of the
state, county, or municipality as holding title to the property; or otherwise
having control of the property, including the guardian of the estate of any
such person, and the executor or administrator of the estate of such person if
ordered to take possession of real property by a court.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, partnership or any other group acting as
a unit.
   PREMISES. A lot, plot or parcel of land, easement or public way, including
any structures thereon.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any real property within the city which is privately owned
and which is not defined as public property in this section.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any real property in the city which is owned by a
governmental body; includes buildings, parking lots, parks, streets, sidewalks,
rights-of-way, easements and other similar property.
   PUBLIC WAY. Any street, alley or similar parcel of land essentially
unobstructed from the ground to the sky, which is deeded, dedicated or
otherwise permanently appropriated to the public for public use.
   REMOVAL. The act of clearing all material and debris whenever it becomes
necessary to demolish any building that has been condemned and found to be a
nuisance by resolution of the City Council.
   RESIDENCE. A structure serving as a dwelling or home. For the purposes of
this chapter, the term RESIDENCE includes dwelling units and rooming houses.
   ROOMING ROUSES. A building arranged or occupied for lodging, with or without
meals, for compensation. Bed-and-breakfast, boarding houses, half-way houses,
and hotels, as those terms are defined under the city’s Zoning Ordinance, are
included within the definition of a ROOMING HOUSE.
   ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
occupied or intended to be occupied for sleeping or living, but not for cooking
purposes.
   RUBBISH. Combustible and noncombustible waste materials, except garbage; the
term shall include the residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke and other
combustible materials, paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior, rubber,
leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metals, mineral matter,
glass, crockery and dust and other similar materials.
   UNCUT WEEDS AND GRASS. See §
96.023(D) for definition.
   STRUCTURE. That which is built or constructed or a portion thereof.
   TENANT. A person, corporation, partnership or group, whether or not the
legal owner of record, occupying a building or portion thereof as a unit.
   TOILET ROOM. A room containing a water closet or urinal but not a bathtub or
shower.
   TRAILER. Any freewheeling object designed or intended to be pulled or towed
behind a motor vehicle, regardless of whether wrecked or inoperable, and
regardless of whether currently inspected and/or registered, including without
limitation the following: Boat trailers, camper trailers, cargo trailers,
special trailers for items such as golf carts or motorcycles, utility trailers,
and farm implements.
   VENTILATION. The natural or mechanical process of supplying conditioned or
unconditioned air to, or removing such air from, any space.
   WORKMANLIKE. Executed in a skilled manner; e.g., generally plumb, level,
square, in line, undamaged and without marring adjacent work.
   WRECKED MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle which does not have lawfully
affixed thereto an unexpired license plate and the condition of which is
wrecked, dismantled, partially dismantled, incapable of operation by its own
power on a public street, or from which the wheels, engine, transmission or any
substantial part thereof has been removed.
   YARD. An open space on the same lot with a structure.
(Ord. 442, passed 3-19-12)
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
§ 96.020 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this chapter shall govern the minimum conditions and the
responsibilities of persons for maintenance of structures, equipment and
exterior property.
(Ord. 442, passed 3-19-12)
§ 96.021 RESPONSIBILITY.
   The owner of the premises shall maintain the structures and exterior
property in compliance with these requirements, except as otherwise provided
for in this chapter. A person shall not occupy as owner-occupant or permit
another person to occupy premises which are not in a sanitary and safe
condition and which do not comply with the requirements of this chapter.
Occupants of a dwelling unit, rooming unit or housekeeping unit are responsible
for keeping in a clean, sanitary, safe condition that part of the dwelling
unit, rooming unit, housekeeping unit or premises which they occupy and
control.
(Ord. 442, passed 3-19-12) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.022 VACANT STRUCTURES AND LAND.
   All vacant structures and premises thereof or vacant land shall be
maintained in a clean, safe, secure and sanitary condition as provided herein
so as not to cause a blighting problem or adversely affect the public health or
safety.
(Ord. 442, passed 3-19-12) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.023 EXTERIOR PROPERTY AREAS.
   (A)   Sanitation. All exterior property and premises shall be maintained in
a clean, safe and sanitary condition. The occupant shall keep that part of the
exterior property which such occupant occupies or controls in a clean and
sanitary condition.
   (B)   Grading and drainage. All premises shall be graded and maintained to
prevent the erosion of soil and to prevent the accumulation of stagnant water
thereon, or within any structure located thereon. Exception: Approved retention
areas and reservoirs.
   (C)   Sidewalks and driveways. All sidewalks, walkways, stairs, driveways,
parking spaces and similar areas shall be kept in a proper state of repair, and
maintained free from hazardous conditions.
   (D)   Grass and weeds. Exceed eight inches in height in all residential
districts; or exceeds eight inches in height on lots in all commercial zone
districts and industrial zone districts on which a structure is located; or
exceed 24 inches in height on lots in all commercial zone districts and
industrial zone districts on which a structure is not located; except that the
restrictions noted above will not apply to areas specifically designated or
recognized by the city, the state or the U.S. as agricultural, wetlands, open
spaces, natural or wild flower areas, or other designated preservation areas.
Exception: Undeveloped land that has been continuously maintained in a natural
vegetative state.
   (E)   Rodent harborage. All structures and exterior property shall be kept
free from rodent harborage and infestation. Where rodents are found, they shall
be promptly exterminated by approved processes which will not be injurious to
human health. After extermination, proper precautions shall be taken to
eliminate rodent harborage and prevent reinfestation.
   (F)   Exhaust vents. Pipes, ducts, conductors, fans or blowers shall not
discharge gases, steam, vapor, hot air, grease, smoke, odors, or other gaseous
or particulate wastes directly upon abutting or adjacent public or private
property or that of another tenant.
   (G)   Accessory structures. All accessory structures, including detached
garages, fences and walls, shall be maintained structurally sound and in good
repair.
   (H)   Motor vehicles. Except as provided for in other regulations, no
inoperative or unlicensed motor vehicle shall be parked, kept or stored on any
premises, and no motor vehicle shall at any time be in a state of major
disassembly, disrepair, or in the process of being stripped or dismantled.
Painting of motor vehicles is prohibited unless conducted inside an approved
spray booth. For specific requirements related to the removal of wrecked or
inoperable vehicles, refer to §
96.114(B). Exception: A motor vehicle of any type is permitted to undergo major
overhaul, including body work, provided that such work is performed inside a
structure or similarly enclosed area designed and approved for such purposes.
2012 S-18
   (I)   Defacement of property. No person shall willfully or wantonly damage,
mutilate or deface any exterior surface of any structure or building on any
private or public property by placing thereon any marking, carving, or
graffiti. It shall be the responsibility of the owner to restore said surface
to an approved state of maintenance and repair.
(Ord. 442, passed 3-19-12) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.024 SWIMMING POOLS, SPAS AND HOT TUBS.
   (A)   Swimming pools. Swimming pools shall be maintained in a clean and
sanitary condition, and in good repair.
   (B)   Enclosures. Private swimming pools, hot tubs and spas, containing
water more than 24 inches (610 mm) in depth shall be completely surrounded by a
fence or barrier at least 48 inches (1,219 mm) in height above the finished
ground level measured on the side of the barrier away from the pool. Gates and
doors in such barriers shall be self-closing, self-latching, and securable by
lock or other device. Self-closing and self-latching gates shall be maintained
such that the gate will positively close and latch when released from an open
position of six inches (152 mm) from the gatepost. No existing pool enclosure
shall be removed, replaced or changed in a manner that reduces its
effectiveness as a safety barrier.
(Ord. 442, passed 3-19-12) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.025 EXTERIOR STRUCTURE.
   (A)   General. The exterior of a structure shall be maintained in good
repair, structurally sound and sanitary so as not to pose a threat to the
public health, safety or welfare.
   (B)   Protective treatment. All exterior surfaces, including but not limited
to doors, door and window frames, cornices, porches, trim, balconies, decks and
fences shall be maintained in good condition. Exterior wood surfaces, other
than decay-resistant woods, shall be protected from the elements and decay by
painting or other protective covering or treatment. Peeling, flaking and
chipped paint shall be eliminated and surfaces repainted. All siding and
masonry joints as well as those between the building envelope and the perimeter
of windows, doors, and skylights shall be maintained weather resistant and
water tight. All metal surfaces subject to rust or corrosion shall be coated to
inhibit such rust and corrosion and all surfaces with rust or corrosion shall
be stabilized and coated to inhibit future rust and corrosion. Oxidation stains
shall be removed from exterior surfaces. Surfaces designed for stabilization by
oxidation are exempt from this requirement.
   (C)   Premises identification. Buildings shall have approved address numbers
placed in a position to be plainly legible and visible from the street or road
fronting the property. These numbers shall contrast with their background.
Address numbers shall be Arabic numerals or alphabet letters. Numbers shall be
a minimum of three inches (76.2 mm) high with a minimum stroke width of 0.5
inch (12.7 mm) on residential structures and shall be a minimum of six inches
(152.4 mm) high with a minimum stroke width of 0.5 inch (12.7 mm) for
commercial structures.
   (D)   Structural members. All structural members shall be maintained free
from deterioration, and shall be capable of safely supporting the imposed dead
and live loads.
   (E)   Foundation walls. All foundation walls shall be maintained plumb and
free from open cracks and breaks and shall be kept in such condition so as to
prevent the entry of rodents and other pests.
   (F)   Exterior walls. All exterior walls shall be free from holes, breaks,
and loose or rotting materials; maintained weatherproof and properly surface
coated where required to prevent deterioration.
   (G)   Roofs and drainage. The roof and flashing shall be sound, tight, and
not have defects that admit rain. Roof drainage shall be adequate to prevent
dampness or deterioration in the walls or interior portion of the structure.
Roof drains, gutters and downspouts shall be maintained in good repair and free
from obstructions. Roof water shall not be discharged in a manner that creates
a public nuisance.
   (H)   Decorative features. All cornices, belt courses, corbels, terra cotta
trim, wall facings and similar decorative features shall be maintained in good
repair with proper anchorage and in a safe condition.
   (I)   Overhang extensions. All overhang extensions including but not limited
to canopies, marquees, signs, metal awnings, fire escapes, standpipes and
exhaust ducts shall be maintained in good repair and be properly anchored so as
to be kept in a sound condition. When required, all exposed surfaces of metal
or wood shall be protected from the elements and against decay or rust by
periodic application of weather-coating materials, such as paint or similar
surface treatment.
   (J)   Stairways, decks, porches and balconies. Every exterior stairway,
deck, porch and balcony, and all appurtenances attached thereto, shall be
maintained structurally sound, in good repair, with proper anchorage and
capable of supporting the imposed loads.
   (K)   Chimneys and towers. All chimneys, cooling towers, smoke stacks, and
similar appurtenances shall be maintained structurally safe and sound, and in
good repair. All exposed surfaces of metal or wood shall be protected from the
elements and against decay or rust by periodic application of weather coating
materials, such as paint or similar surface treatment.
   (L)   Handrails and guards. Every handrail and guard shall be firmly
fastened and capable of supporting normally imposed loads and shall be
maintained in good condition.
   (M)   Window, skylight, and door frames. Every window, skylight, door and
frame shall be kept in sound condition, good repair and weather tight.
      (1)   Glazing. All glazing materials shall be maintained free from cracks
and holes.
      (2)   Operable windows. Every window, other than a fixed window, shall be
easily opened and capable of being held in position by window hardware.
   (N)   Insect screens. Any and all residential property and residential
apartments which are not serviced by a central heat and air conditioning unit
or units shall be required to have an insect screen to provide for ventilation
of habitable areas. Such insect screens shall be supplied with approved tightly
fitting screens of not less than 16 mesh per inch (16 mesh per 25 mm) and every
swinging door shall have a self-closing device in good working condition.
   (O)   Doors. All exterior doors, door assemblies and hardware shall be
maintained in good condition. Locks at all entrances to dwelling units, rooming
units and guestrooms shall tightly secure the door. Locks on means of egress
doors shall be in accordance with §
96.097.
   (P)   Basement hatchways. Every basement hatchway shall be maintained to
prevent the entrance of rodents, rain and surface drainage water.
   (Q)   Guards for basement windows. Every basement window that is operable
shall be supplied with rodent shields, storm windows or other approved
protection against the entry of rodents.
   (R)   Building security. Doors, windows or hatchways for dwelling units,
room units or housekeeping units shall be provided with devices designed to
provide security for the occupants and property within.
      (1)   Doors. Door providing access to a dwelling unit, rooming unit or
housekeeping unit that is rented, leased or let shall be equipped with a single
cylinder deadbolt lock meeting specifications set forth herein. Such deadbolt
locks shall be operated only by the turning of a knob on the inside or a key on
the outside and shall have a lock throw of not less than one inch. For the
purpose of this section, a sliding bolt shall not be considered an acceptable
deadbolt lock. Such deadbolt locks shall be installed according to
manufacturer’s specifications and maintained in good working order. All
deadbolt locks required by this section shall be designed and installed in such
a manner so as to be operable inside of the dwelling unit, rooming unit or
housekeeping unit without the use of a key, tool, combinations thereof or any
other special knowledge or effort.
      (2)   Windows. Operable windows located in whole or in part within six
feet (1,828 mm) above ground level or a walking surface below that provide
access to a dwelling unit, rooming unit, or housekeeping unit that is rented,
leased or let shall be equipped with window sash locking devices.
      (3)   Basement hatchways. Basement hatchways that provide access to a
dwelling unit, rooming unit or housekeeping unit that is rented, leased or let
shall be equipped with devices that secure the units from unauthorized entry.
(Ord. 442, passed 3-19-12) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.026 INTERIOR STRUCTURE.
   (A)   General. The interior of a structure and equipment therein shall be
maintained in good repair, structurally sound and in a sanitary condition.
Occupants shall keep that part of the structure which they occupy or control in
a clean and sanitary condition. Every owner of a structure containing a rooming
house, housekeeping units, a hotel, a dormitory, two or more dwelling units or
two or more nonresidential occupancies, shall maintain, in a clean and sanitary
condition, the shared or public areas of the structure and exterior property.
   (B)   Structural members. All structural members shall be maintained
structurally sound and be capable of supporting the imposed loads.
   (C)   Interior surfaces. All interior surfaces, including windows and doors,
shall be maintained in good, clean and sanitary condition. Peeling, chipping,
flaking or abraded paint shall be repaired, removed or covered. Cracked or
loose plaster, decayed wood and other defective surface conditions shall be
corrected.
   (D)   Stairs and walking surfaces. Every stair, ramp, landing, balcony,
porch, deck or other walking surface shall be maintained in sound condition and
good repair.
   (E)   Handrails and guards.  Every handrail and guard shall be firmly
fastened and capable of supporting normally imposed loads and shall be
maintained in good condition.
   (F)   Interior doors. Every interior door shall fit reasonably well within
its frame and shall be capable of being opened and closed by being properly and
securely attached to jambs, headers or tracks as intended by the manufacture of
the attachment hardware.
(Ord. 442, passed 3-19-12) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.027 HANDRAILS AND GUARDRAILS.
   (A)   General. Every exterior and interior flight of stairs having more than
four risers shall have a handrail on one side of the stair and every open
portion of a stair, landing, balcony, porch, deck, ramp or other walking
surface which is more than 30 inches (762 mm) above the floor or grade below
shall have guards. Handrails shall not be less than 30 inches (762 mm) high or
more than 42 inches (1,067 mm) high measured vertically above the nosing of the
tread or above the finished floor of the landing or walking surfaces. Guards
shall not be less than 30 inches (762 mm) high above the floor of the landing,
balcony, porch, deck, or ramp or other walking surface.
   (B)   Exception. Guards shall not be required where exempted by the adopted
building code.
(Ord. 442, passed 3-19-12) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.028 RUBBISH AND GARBAGE.
   (A)   Accumulation of rubbish or garbage. All exterior property and
premises, and the interior of every structure, shall be free from any
accumulation of rubbish or garbage.
   (B)   Disposal of rubbish. Every occupant of a structure shall dispose of
all rubbish in a clean and sanitary manner by placing such rubbish in approved
containers.
      (1)   Rubbish storage facilities. The occupant of every premises shall
keep and maintain approved covered containers for rubbish and be responsible
for the removal of rubbish.
      (2)   Refrigerators. Refrigerators and similar equipment not in operation
shall not be discarded, abandoned or stored on premises without first removing
the doors, securing the doors with locks, chain, wire, or rope or using other
reasonable methods to prevent opening.
   (C)   Disposal of garbage. Every occupant of a structure shall dispose of
garbage in a clean and sanitary manner by placing such garbage in an approved
garbage disposal facility or an approved leak-proof garbage container.
(Ord. 442, passed 3-19-12) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.029 EXTERMINATION.
   (A)   Infestation. All structures shall be kept free from insect and rodent
infestation. All structures in which insects or rodents are found shall be
promptly exterminated by approved processes that will not be injurious to human
health. After extermination, proper precautions shall be taken to prevent
reinfestation.
   (B)   Owner. The owner of any structure shall be responsible for
extermination within the structure prior to renting or leasing the structure.
   (C)   Single occupant. The occupant of a one-family dwelling or of a single-
tenant nonresidential structure shall be responsible for extermination on the
premises.
   (D)   Multiple occupancy. The owner of a structure containing two or more
dwelling units, a multiple occupancy, a rooming house or a nonresidential
structure shall be responsible for extermination in the public or shared areas
of the structure and exterior property. If infestation is caused by failure of
an occupant to prevent such infestation in the area occupied, the occupant
shall be responsible for extermination.
   (E)   Occupant. The occupant of any structure shall be responsible for the
continued rodent and pest-free condition of the structure. Exception: Where the
infestations are caused by defects in the structure, the owner shall be
responsible for extermination.
(Ord. 442, passed 3-19-12) Penalty, see §
96.999
LIGHT, VENTILATION AND OCCUPANCY LIMITATIONS
§ 96.040 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall govern the minimum conditions and
standards for light, ventilation and space for occupying a structure.
(Ord. 442, passed 3-19-12)
§ 96.041 RESPONSIBILITY.
   The owner of the structure shall provide and maintain light, ventilation and
space conditions in compliance with these requirements. A person shall not
occupy as owner-occupant, or permit another person to occupy, any premises that
do not comply with the requirements of this subchapter.
(Ord. 442, passed 3-19-12) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.042 ALTERNATIVE DEVICES.
   In lieu of the means for natural light and ventilation herein prescribed,
artificial light or mechanical ventilation complying with the International
Building Code shall be permitted.
(Ord. 442, passed 3-19-12)
§ 96.043 LIGHT.
   (A)   Habitable spaces. Every habitable space shall have at least one window
of approved size facing directly to the outdoors or to a court. The minimum
total glazed area for every habitable space shall be 8% of the floor area of
such room. Wherever walls or other portions of a structure face a window of any
room and such obstructions are located less than three feet (914 mm) from the
window and extend to a level above that of the ceiling of the room, such window
shall not be deemed to face directly to the outdoors nor to a court and shall
not be included as contributing to the required minimum total window area for
the room. Exception: Where natural light for rooms or spaces without exterior
glazing areas is provided through an adjoining room, the unobstructed opening
to the adjoining room shall be at least 8% of the floor area of the interior
room or space, but not less than 25 square feet (2.33 sq. m.). The exterior
glazing area shall be based on the total floor area being served.
   (B)   Common halls and stairways. Every common hall and stairway in
residential occupancies, other than in one- and two- family dwellings, shall be
lighted at all times with at least a 60 watt standard incandescent light bulb
for each 200 square feet (19 sq. m.) of floor area or equivalent illumination,
provided that the spacing between lights shall not be greater than 30 feet
(9,144 mm). In other than residential occupancies, means of egress, including
exterior means of egress stairways shall be illuminated at all times the
building space served by the means of egress is occupied with a minimum of one
footcandle (11 lux) at floors, landings and treads.
   (C)   Other spaces. All other spaces shall be provided with natural or
artificial light sufficient to permit the maintenance of sanitary conditions,
and safe occupancy of the space and utilization of the appliances, equipment
and fixtures.
(Ord. 442, passed 3-19-12) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.044 VENTILATION.
   (A)   Habitable spaces. Every habitable space shall have at least one
operable window. The total operable area of the window in every room shall be
equal to at least 45% of the minimum glazed area required in §
96.043(A). Exception: Where rooms and spaces without openings to the outdoors
are ventilated through an adjoining room, the unobstructed opening to the
adjoining room shall be at least 8% of the floor area of the interior room or
space, but not less than 25 square feet (2.33 sq. m.). The ventilation openings
to the outdoors shall be based on a total floor area being ventilated.
   (B)   Bathrooms and toilet rooms. Every bathroom and toilet room shall
comply with the ventilation requirements for habitable spaces as required by
division (A) above, except that a window shall not be required in such spaces
equipped with a mechanical ventilation system. Air exhausted by a mechanical
ventilation system from a bathroom or toilet room shall discharge to the
outdoors or attic and shall not be recirculated.
   (C)   Cooking facilities. Unless approved through the certificate of
occupancy, cooking shall not be permitted in any rooming unit or dormitory
unit, and a cooking facility or appliance shall not be permitted to be present
in a rooming unit or dormitory unit. Exception: Where specifically approved in
writing by a Code Enforcement Officer.
   (D)   Process ventilation. Where injurious, toxic, irritating or noxious
fumes, gases, dusts or mists are generated, a local exhaust ventilation system
shall be provided to remove the contaminating agent at the source. Air shall be
exhausted to the exterior and not be recirculated to any space.
   (E)   Clothes dryer exhaust. Clothes dryer exhaust systems shall be
independent of all other systems and shall be exhausted in accordance with the
manufacturer’s instructions.
(Ord. 442, passed 3-19-12) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.045 OCCUPANCY LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Privacy. Dwelling units, hotel units, housekeeping units, rooming
units and dormitory units shall be arranged to provide privacy and be separate
from other adjoining spaces.
   (B)   Minimum room widths. A habitable room, other than a kitchen, shall not
be less than seven feet (2,134 mm) in any plan dimension. Kitchens shall have a
clear passageway of not less than three feet (914 mm) between counter fronts
and appliances or counter fronts and walls.
   (C)   Minimum ceiling heights. Habitable spaces, hallways, corridors,
laundry areas, bathrooms, toilet rooms and habitable basement areas shall have
a clear ceiling height of not less than seven feet (2,134 mm). Exceptions:
      (1)   In one- and two- family dwellings, beams or girders spaced not less
than four feet (1,219 mm) on center and projecting not more than six inches
(152 mm) below the required ceiling height.
      (2)   Basement rooms in one- and two-family dwellings occupied
exclusively for laundry, study or recreation purposes, having a ceiling height
of not less than six feet eight inches (2,033 mm) with not less than six feet
four inches (1,932 mm) of clear height under beams, girders, ducts and similar
obstructions.
      (3)   Rooms occupied exclusively for sleeping, study or similar purposes
and having a sloped ceiling over all or part of the room, with a clear ceiling
height of at least seven feet (2,134 mm) over not less than one-third of the
required minimum floor area. In calculating the floor area of such rooms, only
those portions of the floor area with a clear ceiling height of five feet
(1,524 mm) or more shall be included.
   (D)   Bedroom requirements. Every bedroom shall comply with the requirements
of divisions (D)(1) through (D)(5) below.
      (1)   Area for sleeping purposes. Every bedroom occupied by one person
shall contain at least 70 square feet (6.5 sq. m.) of floor area, and every
bedroom occupied by more than one person shall contain at least 50 square feet
(4.6 sq. m.) of floor area for each occupant thereof.
      (2)   Access from bedrooms. Bedrooms shall not constitute the only means
of access to other bedrooms or habitable spaces and shall not serve as the only
means of egress from other habitable spaces. Exception: Units that contain
fewer than two bedrooms.
      (3)   Water closet accessibility. Every bedroom shall have interior
access to at least one water closet and one lavatory without passing through
another bedroom. Additionally, every bedroom in a dwelling unit shall have
access to at least one water closet and lavatory located in the same story as
the bedroom or an adjacent story.
      (4)   Prohibited occupancy. Kitchens and non-habitable spaces shall not
be used for sleeping purposes.
      (5)   Other requirements. Bedrooms shall comply with the applicable
provisions of this chapter including, but not limited to, the light,
ventilation, room area, ceiling height and room width requirements of this
subchapter; the plumbing facilities and water-heating facilities requirements
of §§
96.055 et seq.; the heating facilities and electrical receptacle requirements
of §§
96.075 et seq.; and the smoke detector and emergency escape requirements of §§
96.095 et seq. 
   (E)   Overcrowding. Dwelling units shall not be occupied by more occupants
than permitted by the minimum area requirements of Table 1.
TABLE 1 - MINIMUM AREA REQUIREMENTS
Minimum Area in Square Feet
Space 1-2 occupants 3-5 occupants 6 or more occupants
TABLE 1 - MINIMUM AREA REQUIREMENTS
Minimum Area in Square Feet
Space       1-2 occupants         3-5 occupants         6 or more occupants
Living room No requirements       120                   150
(a) (b)
Dining room No requirements       80                    100
(a) (b)
Bedrooms    Shall comply with §  Shall comply with §  Shall comply with §
            96.045(D)             96.045(D)             96.045(D)
For SI: 1 square foot = 0.093 sq. m.
(a) See §
96.045(E)(2) for combined living room/dining room spaces.
(b) See §
96.045(E)(1) for limitations on determining the minimum occupancy area for
sleeping purposes.
 
      (1)   Sleeping area. The minimum occupancy area required by Table 1 shall
not be included as a sleeping area in determining the minimum occupancy area
for sleeping purposes. All sleeping areas shall comply with division (D) above.
      (2)   Combined spaces. Combined living room and dining room spaces shall
comply with the requirements of Table 1 if the total area is equal to that
required for separate rooms and if the space is located so as to function as a
combination living room/dining room.
   (F)   Efficiency unit. Nothing in this section shall prohibit an efficiency
living unit from meeting the following requirements:
      (1)   A unit occupied by not more than two occupants shall have a clear
floor area of not less than 220 square feet (20.4 sq. m.). A unit occupied by
three occupants shall have clear floor area of not less than 320 square feet
(29.7 sq. m.). These required areas shall be exclusive of the areas required by
divisions (F)(2) and (F)(3).
      (2)   The unit shall be provided with a kitchen sink, cooking appliance
and refrigeration facilities, each having a clear working space of not less
than 30 inches (762 mm) in front. Light and ventilation conforming to this
chapter shall be provided.
      (3)   The unit shall be provided with a separate bathroom containing a
water closet, lavatory and bathtub or shower.
      (4)   The maximum number of occupants shall be three.
   (G)   Food preparation. All spaces to be occupied for food preparation
purposes shall contain suitable space and equipment to store, prepare and serve
foods in a sanitary manner. There shall be adequate facilities and services for
the sanitary disposal of food wastes and refuse, including facilities for
temporary storage.
(Ord. 442, passed 3-19-12) Penalty, see §
96.999
PLUMBING FACILITIES AND FIXTURE REQUIREMENTS
§ 96.055 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this chapter shall govern the minimum plumbing systems,
facilities and plumbing fixtures to be provided.
(Ord. 442, passed 3-19-12)
§ 96.056 RESPONSIBILITY.
   The owner of the structure shall provide and maintain such plumbing
facilities and plumbing fixtures in compliance with these requirements. A
person shall not occupy as owner-occupant or permit another person to occupy
any structure or premises which does not comply with the requirements of this
chapter.
(Ord. 442, passed 3-19-12) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.057 REQUIRED FACILITIES.
   (A)   Dwelling units. Every dwelling unit shall contain its own bathtub or
shower, lavatory, water closet and kitchen sink which shall be maintained in a
sanitary, safe working condition. The lavatory shall be placed in the same room
as the water closet or located in close proximity to the door leading directly
into the room in which the water closet is located. A kitchen sink shall not be
used as a substitute for the required lavatory.
   (B)   Rooming houses. At least one water closet, lavatory and bathtub or
shower shall be supplied for each four rooming units.
   (C)   Employees’ facilities. A minimum of one water closet, one lavatory and
one drinking facility shall be available to employees.
   (D)   Drinking facilities. Drinking facilities shall be a drinking fountain,
water cooler, bottled water cooler or disposable cups next to a sink or water
dispenser. Drinking facilities shall not be located in toilet rooms or
bathrooms.
(Ord. 442, passed 3-19-12) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.058 TOILET ROOMS.
   (A)   Privacy. Toilet rooms and bathrooms shall provide privacy and shall
not constitute the only passageway to a hall or other space, or to the
exterior. A door and interior locking device shall be provided for all common
or shared bathrooms and toilet rooms in a multiple dwelling.
   (B)   Location. Toilet rooms and bathrooms serving hotel units, rooming
units or dormitory units or housekeeping units, shall have access by traversing
not more than one flight of stairs and shall have access from an interior
common hall or passageway.
   (C)   Location of employee toilet facilities. Toilet facilities shall have
access from within the employees’ working area. The required toilet facilities
shall be located not more than one story above or below the employees’ working
area and the path of travel to such facilities shall not exceed a distance of
500 feet (152 m). Employee facilities shall either be separate facilities or
combined employee and public facilities. Exception: Facilities that are
required for employees in storage structures or kiosks, which are located in
adjacent structures under the same ownership, lease or control, shall not
exceed a travel distance of 500 feet (152 m) from the employees’ regular
working area to the facilities.
   (D)   Floor surface. In other than dwelling units, every toilet room floor
shall be maintained to be a smooth, hard, nonabsorbent surface to permit such
floor to be easily kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
(Ord. 442, passed 3-19-12) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.059 PLUMBING SYSTEMS AND FIXTURES.
   (A)   General. All plumbing fixtures shall be properly installed and
maintained in working order, and shall be kept free from obstructions, leaks
and defects and be capable of performing the function for which such plumbing
fixtures are designed. All plumbing fixtures shall be maintained in a safe,
sanitary and functional condition.
   (B)   Fixture clearances. Plumbing fixtures shall have adequate clearances
for usage and cleaning.
   (C)   Plumbing system hazards. Where it is found that a plumbing system in a
structure constitutes a hazard to the occupants or the structure by reason of
inadequate service, inadequate venting, cross connection, back-siphonage,
improper installation, deterioration or damage or for similar reasons, the Code
Official shall require the defects to be corrected to eliminate the hazard.
(Ord. 442, passed 3-19-12) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.060 WATER SYSTEM.
   (A)   General. Every sink, lavatory, bathtub or shower, drinking fountain,
water closet or other plumbing fixture shall be properly connected to either a
public water system or to an approved private water system. All kitchen sinks,
lavatories, laundry facilities, bathtubs and showers shall be supplied with hot
or tempered and cold running water.
   (B)   Contamination. The water supply shall be maintained free from
contamination, and all water inlets for plumbing fixtures shall be located
above the flood-level rim of the fixture. Shampoo basin faucets, janitor sink
faucets and other hose bibs or faucets to which hoses are attached and left in
place, shall be protected by an approved atmospheric-type vacuum breaker or an
approved permanently attached hose connection vacuum breaker.
   (C)   Supply. The water supply system shall be installed and maintained to
provide a supply of water to plumbing fixtures, devices and appurtenances in
sufficient volume and at pressures adequate to enable the fixtures to function
properly, safely, and free from defects and leaks.
   (D)   Water heating facilities. Water heating facilities shall be property
installed, maintained and capable of providing an adequate amount of water to
be drawn at every required sink, lavatory, bathtub, shower and laundry facility
at a temperature not less than 110°F (43°C). A gas-burning water heater shall
not be located in any bathroom, toilet room, bedroom or other occupied room
normally kept closed, unless adequate combustion air is provided. An approved
combination temperature and pressure-relief valve discharge pipe shall be
properly installed and maintained on water heaters.
(Ord. 442, passed 3-19-12) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.061 SANITARY DRAINAGE SYSTEM.
   (A)   General. All plumbing fixtures shall be properly connected to either a
public sewer system or to an approved private sewage disposal system.
   (B)   Maintenance. Every plumbing stack, vent, waste and sewer line shall
function properly and be kept free from obstructions, leaks and defects.
(Ord. 442, passed 3-19-12) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.062 STORM DRAINAGE.
   Drainage of roofs and paved areas, yards and courts, and other open areas on
the premises shall not be discharged in a manner that creates a public
nuisance.
(Ord. 442, passed 3-19-12) Penalty, see §
96.999
MECHANICAL AND ELECTRICAL REQUIREMENTS
§ 96.075 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall govern the minimum mechanical and
electrical facilities and equipment to be provided.
(Ord. 442, passed 3-19-12)
§ 96.076 RESPONSIBILITY.
   The owner of the structure shall provide and maintain mechanical and
electrical facilities and equipment in compliance with these requirements. A
person shall not occupy as owner-occupant or permit another person to occupy
any premises which does not comply with the requirements of this subchapter.
(Ord. 442, passed 3-19-12) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.077 HEATING FACILITIES.
   (A)   Facilities required. Heating facilities shall be provided in
structures as required by this section.
   (B)   Residential occupancies. Dwellings shall be provided with heating
facilities capable of maintaining a room temperature of 65°F (18°C) in all
habitable rooms, bathrooms and toilet rooms. Cooking appliances shall not be
used to provide space heating to meet the requirements of this section.
   (C)   Heat supply. Every owner and operator of any building who rents,
leases or lets one or more dwelling unit, rooming unit, dormitory or guestroom
shall supply heat sufficient to maintain a temperature of not less than 65°F
(18°C) in all habitable rooms, bathrooms, and toilet rooms. Exception: When the
outdoor temperature is less than 20°F (-7°C), maintenance of the minimum room
temperature shall not be required provided that the heating system is operating
at its full design capacity.
   (D)   Room temperature measurement. The required room temperatures shall be
measured three feet (914 mm) above the floor near the center of the room and
two feet (610 mm) inward from the center of each exterior wall.
(Ord. 442, passed 3-19-12) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.078 MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Mechanical appliances. All mechanical appliances, fireplaces, solid
fuel-burning appliances, cooking appliances and water heating appliances shall
be properly installed and maintained in a safe working condition, and shall be
capable of performing the intended function.
   (B)   Removal of combustion products. All fuel-burning equipment and
appliances shall be connected to an approved chimney or vent. Exception: Fuel-
burning equipment and appliances which are labeled for unvented operation.
   (C)   Clearances. All required clearances to combustible materials shall be
maintained.
   (D)   Safety controls. All safety controls for fuel-burning equipment shall
be maintained in effective operation.
   (E)   Combustion air. A supply of air for complete combustion of the fuel
and for ventilation of the space containing the fuel-burning equipment shall be
provided for the fuel-burning equipment.
   (F)   Energy conservation devices. Devices intended to reduce fuel
consumption by attachment to a fuel-burning appliance, to the fuel supply line
thereto, or to the vent outlet or vent piping therefrom, shall not be installed
unless labeled for such purpose and the installation is specifically approved.
(Ord. 442, passed 3-19-12) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.079 ELECTRICAL FACILITIES.
   (A)   Facilities required. Every occupied building shall be provided with an
electrical system in compliance with the requirements of this section and §
96.080 below.
   (B)   Service. The size and usage of appliances and equipment shall serve as
a basis for determining the need for additional facilities. Dwelling units
shall be served by a three-wire, 120/140 volt, single phase electrical service
having a rating of not less than 60 amperes.
   (C)   Electrical system hazards. Where it is found that the electrical
system in the structure constitutes a hazard to the occupants or the structure
by reason of inadequate service, improper fusing, insufficient receptacle and
lighting outlets, improper wiring or installation, deterioration or damage, or
for similar reasons, the Code Official shall require the defects to be
corrected to eliminate the hazard.
(Ord. 442, passed 3-19-12) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.080 ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Installation. All electrical equipment, wiring and appliances shall be
properly installed and maintained in a safe and approved manner.
   (B)   Receptacles. Every habitable space in a dwelling shall contain at
least two separate and remote receptacle outlets. Every laundry area shall
contain at least one grounded-type receptacle or a receptacle with a ground
fault circuit interrupter. Every bathroom shall contain at least one
receptacle. Any new bathroom receptacle outlet shall have ground fault circuit
interrupter protection.
   (C)   Lighting fixtures. Every public hall, interior stairway, toilet room,
kitchen, bathroom, laundry room, boiler room and furnace room shall contain at
least one electric lighting fixture.
(Ord. 442, passed 3-19-12) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.081 ELEVATORS, ESCALATORS AND DUMBWAITERS.
   (A)   General. Elevators, dumbwaiters and escalators shall be maintained to
sustain safely all imposed loads, to operate properly, and to be free from
physical and fire hazards. The most current certificate of inspection shall be
on display at all times within the elevator or attached to the escalator or
dumbwaiter; or the certificate shall be available for public inspection in the
office of the building operator.
   (B)   Elevators. In buildings equipped with passenger elevators, at least
one elevator shall be maintained in operation at all times when the building is
occupied. Exception: Buildings equipped with only one elevator shall be
permitted to have the elevator temporarily out of service for testing or
servicing.
(Ord. 442, passed 3-19-12) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.082 DUCT SYSTEMS.
   Duct systems shall be maintained free of obstructions and shall be capable
of performing the required function.
(Ord. 442, passed 3-19-12) Penalty, see §
96.999
FIRE SAFETY REQUIREMENTS
§ 96.095 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall govern the minimum conditions and
standards for fire safety relating to structures and exterior premises,
including fire safety facilities and equipment to be provided.
(Ord. 442, passed 3-19-12)
§ 96.096 RESPONSIBILITY.
   The owner of the premises shall provide and maintain fire safety facilities
and equipment in compliance with these requirements. A person shall not occupy
as owner-occupant or permit another person to occupy any premises that do not
comply with the requirements of this subchapter.
(Ord. 442, passed 3-19-12) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.097 MEANS OF EGRESS.
   (A)   General. The occupant shall maintain a safe, continuous and
unobstructed path of travel shall be provided from any point in a building or
structure to the public way. Means of egress shall comply with the Arkansas
Fire Prevention Code.
   (B)   Aisles. The required width of aisles in accordance with the Arkansas
Fire Prevention Code shall be unobstructed.
   (C)   Locked doors. All means of egress doors shall be readily openable from
the side from which egress is to be made without the need for keys, special
knowledge or effort, except where the door hardware conforms to that permitted
by the Arkansas Fire Prevention Code.
   (D)   Emergency escape openings. Required emergency escape openings shall be
maintained in accordance with the building codes in effect at the time of
construction, and the following. Required emergency escape and rescue openings
shall be operational from the inside of the room without the use of keys or
tools. Bars, grilles, grates or similar devices are permitted to be placed over
emergency escape and rescue openings provided the minimum net clear opening
size complies with the building codes that were in effect at the time of
construction and such devices shall be releasable or removable from the inside
without the use of a key, tool or greater force than that which is required for
normal operation of the escape and rescue opening.
(Ord. 442, passed 3-19-12) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.098 FIRE-RESISTANCE RATINGS.
   (A)   Fire-resistance-related assemblies. The required fire-resistance
rating of fire-resistance-rated walls, fire stops, shaft enclosures, partitions
and floors shall be maintained.
   (B)   Opening protectives. Required opening protectives shall be maintained
in an operative condition. All fire and smokestop doors shall be maintained in
operable condition. Fire doors and smoke barrier doors shall not be blocked or
obstructed or otherwise made inoperable.
(Ord. 442, passed 3-19-12) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.099 FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS.
   (A)   General. All systems, devices and equipment to detect a fire, actuate
an alarm, or suppress or control a fire or any combination thereof shall be
maintained in an operable condition at all times in accordance with the
Arkansas Fire Prevention Code.
   (B)   Smoke alarms. Single or multiple-station smoke alarms shall be
installed and maintained in all residences, regardless of occupant load at all
of the following locations:
      (1)   One in the ceiling or wall outside of each separate sleeping area
in the immediate vicinity of bedrooms.
      (2)   In each room used for sleeping purposes.
      (3)   In each story within a dwelling unit, including basements and
cellars but not including crawl spaces and uninhabitable attics. In dwellings
or dwelling units with split levels and without an intervening door between the
adjacent levels, a smoke alarm installed on the upper level shall suffice for
the adjacent lower level provided that the lower level is less than one full
story below the upper level. Single or multiple-station smoke alarms shall be
installed in other groups in accordance with the Arkansas Fire Prevention Code.
(Ord. 442, passed 3-19-12) Penalty, see §
96.999
NUISANCES
§ 96.110 INTENT.
   (A)   It is the intent of this chapter to prevent and abate nuisances within
the municipal boundaries of the city.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the word NUISANCE is defined as any
act, omission, or property condition that is detrimental to the health, safety
and welfare of the public in that it:
      (1)   Injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety of
others;
      (2)   Offends decency;
      (3)   Is offensive to the senses;
      (4)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs or tends to obstruct, or
renders dangerous for passage any public or private street, highway, sidewalk,
stream, ditch or drainage;
      (5)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or the use of
property; or
      (6)   Essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life and
property; or tends to depreciate the value of the property of others.
(Ord. 442, passed 3-19-12)
§ 96.111 PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to cause, permit, maintain or
allow the creation or maintenance of a nuisance within the City of White Hall.
(Ord. 442, passed 3-19-12) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.112 ILLUSTRATIVE ENUMERATION OF A NUISANCE.
   The maintaining, using, placing, depositing, leaving or permitting to be or
remain on any public or private property of any of the following items,
conditions or actions is hereby declared to be and constitute a nuisance;
provided, however, this enumeration shall not be deemed or construed to be
conclusive, limiting or restrictive:
   (A)   Noxious weeds and other rank vegetation.
   (B)   Accumulations or storage of rubbish, garbage, materials, metals,
lumber, and other materials.
   (C)   Any condition which provides harborage for rats, mice, snakes and
other vermin.
   (D)   Dilapidated structures.
   (E)   All unnecessary or unauthorized noises and annoying vibrations,
including animal noises.
   (F)   All disagreeable or obnoxious odors and stenches, as well as the
conditions, substances or other causes which give rise to the emission or
generation of such odors and stenches.
   (G)   The carcasses of animals or fowl not disposed of within a reasonable
time after death.
   (H)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream, lake, canal or
body of water by sewage, dead animals, creamery, industrial wastes or other
substances.
   (I)   Any building, structure or other place or location where any activity
which is in violation of local, state, or federal law is conducted, performed
or maintained.
   (J)   Any accumulation of stagnant water permitted or maintained on any lot
or piece of ground.
   (K)   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas, soot, or cinders in unreasonable
quantities.
   (L)   Graffiti.
   (M)   Inoperable, wrecked or abandoned motor vehicles, or any parts thereof.
   (N)   Unsafe equipment, including, but not limited to, any boiler, heating
equipment, elevator, moving stairway, electrical wiring or device, flammable
liquid containers or other equipment on the premises or within the structure
which is in such disrepair or condition that it is a hazard to life, health,
property or safety of the public or occupants of the premises or structure.
   (O)   The use of tarpaulins, canvas, plastic, oil cloth, sheeting and other
similar materials as fencing or to shield or enclose any structure (including,
without limitation, openings for windows, doors, walls, roofs, garage doors or
carports) except when temporarily necessary to perform repairs under a properly
issued building permit.
   (P)   Permanent or temporary basketball goals (except those approved by the
city) on any public street or on any right-of-way adjacent to a public street.
(Ord. 442, passed 3-19-12)
§ 96.113 GENERAL REMEDIES.
   (A)   Other remedies unaffected. The remedies found in this subchapter are
not intended to displace any other remedies of law or equity found in the
common or statutory law of the state that may be available to the city, a
citizen of the city, or any public or private entity to abate or prevent a
nuisance.
   (B)   Citations. Code Enforcement Officers are authorized to issue citations
or notices of violations to any person in violation of §
96.111.
   (C)   Abatement. In addition to the authority found in this section, Code
Enforcement Officers are authorized to take such action as may be reasonable
necessary to abate nuisances within the city. For the specific nuisances that
are defined in §
96.114 below, Code Enforcement Officers may use the associated method of
abatement which is deemed to be both a reasonable and necessary response by the
city to abate a nuisance.
(Ord. 442, passed 3-19-12) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.114 REMEDIES FOR SPECIFIC NUISANCES.
   (A)   Uncut weeds, grass, and unsanitary articles. All property owners and
occupants within the municipal boundaries of the city are required to cut weeds
and grass, remove garbage, rubbish and other unsanitary articles and things
from their property, and to eliminate, fill up or remove stagnant pools of
water or any other unsanitary thing, place or condition which might become a
breeding place for mosquitoes, flies, and germs harmful to the health of the
community. For specific requirements related to the required maintenance of
grass and weeds, refer to §
96.023(D).
      (1)   Authorized abatement. If the owner of any lot or other real
property within the city shall neglect or refuse to remove, abate or eliminate
any condition as may be provided for under division (A), after having been
given a notice of violation with seven days’ notice in writing to do so by a
Code Enforcement Officer, the city is hereby authorized to take such action is
necessary to correct the condition, including but not limited to entering upon
the property and having such weeds, rank grass or other vegetation cut and
removed, or eliminating any unsanitary and unsightly condition, or causing
necessary repairs to be made and charging the cost thereof to the owner of the
premises, which shall constitute a lien thereon. The abovementioned seven days’
notice shall be calculated by counting the first day of the seven day period as
the day after written notice is given to the owner, by counting every calendar
day, including weekends and holidays, and by establishing the deadline to take
the above required actions as 11:59 p.m. on the seventh day. The city reserves
the right to secure a lien for its costs, including a priority clean-up lien
pursuant to A.C. § 14-54-903.
      (2)   Special notice rules for weed lots. For the purpose of this
section, a WEED LOT is a previously platted and subdivided lot that is vacant
or upon which an unsafe and vacant structure is located and that contains
debris, rubbish, or grass contrary to this chapter. Due to the continual growth
cycle of vegetation on weed lots, continuous abatement is often necessary. Thus
the seven day notice of violation described in division (A)(1) shall be issued
with the following additional statement, “Work to abate this nuisance will not
be complete until the end of the growing season.” No additional notice of
violation need be given unless and until the growing season concludes and
further abatement is necessary.
   (B)   Inoperable or wrecked motor vehicles and any parts thereof. The
accumulation of inoperable or wrecked motor vehicles in the city is degrading
to the environment, property values, and the aesthetic beauty of the city.
Thus, the only location where an inoperable or wrecked motor vehicle, or any
parts thereof, may be parked, kept, or stored within the city is in an approved
storage area on property that is properly zoned and permitted for that purpose.
The parking, keeping, or storing of inoperable or wrecked motor vehicles, or
any parts thereof, at any other location, or unauthorized area thereon, in the
city is declared to be a nuisance and may be cited for violation of §
96.023(H) and, if necessary, abated as provided in division (B)(1), below.
      (1)   Presumption of inoperability. A vehicle shall be deemed inoperable
when one or more of the following conditions exist:
         (a)   It has not been moved for more than three days.
         (b)   One or more tires are flat.
         (c)   One or more wheels are missing.
         (d)   The hood or trunk is raised or missing and has appeared to
remain so for more than three days.
         (e)   Weeds or grass have grown up around the vehicle.
         (f)   The engine is missing.
         (g)   The vehicle has no current vehicle tags or registration.
         (h)   The door or doors, fender or fenders are removed or missing.
         (i)   The front or rear windshield is broken, removed or missing, or
the side windows are broken or removed or missing.
      (2)   Removal of inoperable motor vehicles near public streets. If an
owner or occupant of the property within the city shall neglect or refuse to
remove an inoperable motor vehicle that is parked, kept or stored near a public
street without proper authority, a Code Enforcement Officer may cause the
removal of the inoperable motor vehicle, provided that a notice of violation is
affixed to the vehicle for a period of no less than three days which shall
state that the vehicle is a nuisance and order the property owner, occupant, or
whoever has an interest in the vehicle to remove it from the property. If the
vehicle is found on private property with one or more occupiable structures, a
copy of the notice shall additionally be placed on one of the structures. For
purposes of this section a vehicle shall be deemed “near” a public street if it
can be seen with the unaided eye from a public street.
      (3)   Removal of other inoperable motor vehicles. If an owner or occupant
of property within the city shall neglect or refuse to remove an inoperable
motor vehicle that is parked, kept or stored without proper authority but away
from public streets, a Code Enforcement Officer may cause the removal of the
inoperable motor vehicle, provided that a notice of violation is affixed to the
vehicle for a period of no less than 30 days which shall state that the vehicle
is a nuisance and order the property owner, occupant, or whoever has an
interest in the vehicle to remove it from the property. If the vehicle is found
on private property with one or more occupiable structures, a copy of the
notice shall additionally be placed on one of the structures.
   (C)   Impediments to city streets, easements, or right-of-way. The city owns
property rights throughout the jurisdiction of this chapter which are necessary
to the efficient flow of traffic, storm water, utility service, and the like.
Impediments to these property rights are declared to be a public nuisance as
they reduce the public benefit of public property and can endanger the health
and welfare of the citizens who use and depend upon these property rights. Code
Enforcement Officers shall have the authority to order the immediate removal of
any impediment to the use of public streets, sidewalks, drains, ditches,
utilities, easements, or other right-of-ways. If the apparent owner of the
impediment is not known, available, or willing to remove the impediment, a Code
Enforcement Officer may cause the same to be removed. Any person who is
aggrieved by the actions of a Code Enforcement Officer under this division may
appeal the same pursuant to §
96.137.
      (1)   Special rules for basketball goals. Code Enforcement Officers and
law enforcement officers shall have the authority to order the immediate
removal of any permanent or temporary basketball goal (unless approved by the
city) that is on any public street or on any right-of-way adjacent to a public
street. If the apparent owner of the basketball goal is unknown, unavailable,
or unwilling to remove the basketball goal, a Code Enforcement Officer or law
enforcement officer may seize and remove it to a city storage site where it may
be reclaimed by the owner. Any person who seeks to reclaim a basketball goal
and offers proof of ownership (such as the testimony of a witness), may obtain
custody of the goal after paying an administrative reclamation fee of $25 per
goal. Any person who is aggrieved by the actions taken under this division may
appeal the same pursuant to §
96.137.
      (2)   Shopping carts. Code Enforcement Officers shall have the authority
to seize any shopping cart that is left unattended on any public streets,
sidewalks, drains, ditches, utilities, easements, or other right-of ways. Any
cart so seized shall be removed to a city storage site where it may be
reclaimed by the owner. Any person seeking to reclaim a seized shopping cart
and offering proof of ownership (such as a label on the shopping cart), may
obtain custody of the shopping cart after paying an administrative reclamation
fee of $25 per cart. Any person who is aggrieved by the actions of a Code
Enforcement Officer under this division may appeal the same pursuant to §
96.137.
      (3)   Property deemed abandoned. Any property seized by the city pursuant
to division (C) shall be deemed abandoned after 30 days and properly disposed
of by the Code Enforcement Officer.
   (D)   Nuisance structures. Any building or other structure which is in such
a dilapidated condition that it is unsafe or unfit for human habitation, or
kept in such an unsanitary condition that it is a menace to the health and
safety of people residing in the vicinity thereof, or presents a more than
ordinarily dangerous fire hazard in the vicinity where it is located shall
constitute a nuisance.
      (1)   Definitions. For purposes of this subchapter, the following terms
are defined as follows:
         UNFIT STRUCTURE FOR HUMAN OCCUPANCY. A structure is UNFIT FOR HUMAN
OCCUPANCY whenever the Code Official finds that such structure is unsafe,
unlawful or, because of the degree to which the structure is in disrepair or
lacks maintenance, is unsanitary, vermin or rat infested, contains filth and
contamination, or lacks ventilation, illumination, sanitary or heating
facilities or other essential equipment required by this chapter, or because
the location of the structure constitutes a hazard to the occupants of the
structure to the public.
         UNLAWFUL STRUCTURE. One found in whole or in part to be occupied by
more persons than permitted under this chapter, or that was erected, altered or
occupied contrary to law.
         UNSAFE STRUCTURE. One that is found to be dangerous to the life,
health, property or safety of the public or the occupants of the structure by
not providing minimum safeguards to protect or warn occupants in the event of
fire, or because such structure contains unsafe equipment or is so damaged,
decayed, dilapidated, structurally unsafe or of such faulty construction or
unstable foundation, that partial collapse is possible.
      (2)   Vacating of unfit or unsafe structures and utility services. Any
premises declared as unsafe or unfit for human habitation by a Code Enforcement
Officer Department and so designated by placard, shall be vacated within seven
days after notice of such action has been given to both the owner and occupant
of the building. On the eighth day after said notice the Code Enforcement
Department shall notify all utilities to discontinue services to the dwelling
or dwelling unit. After utility services are cut off no further services shall
be made available until a rehabilitation permit is obtained or until the
Director of Code Enforcement notifies utilities that services may be provided
to the dwelling or dwelling unit.
         (a)   Placarding. Upon failure of the owner or person responsible to
comply with the notice of violation for a nuisance structure or equipment
within the time given, the Code Official shall then post on the premises or on
defective equipment a placard bearing the word “NUISANCE” and a statement of
the penalties provided for occupying the premises, operating the equipment or
removing the placard.
         (b)   Placard removal. The Code Official shall remove the placard
referred to in this division whenever the defect or defects upon which the
placarding actions were based have been eliminated. Any person who defaces or
removes a condemnation placard without the approval of the Code Official shall
be subject to the penalties provided by this chapter.
      (3)   Prohibited occupancy. Any person who shall occupy placarded
premises and any owner or responsible person of placarded premises who allows
another person to occupy such placarded premises shall be subject to the
penalties provided by this chapter.
      (4)   Abatement. When warranted, Code Enforcement Officers may perform
work to secure, abate and otherwise cause a nuisance structure to conform with
this chapter and seek reimbursement for the cost thereof in the manner provided
by law.
      (5)   Condemnation. When warranted, Code Enforcement Officers may
initiate condemnation proceedings under §
96.135.
(Ord. 442, passed 3-19-12) Penalty, see §
96.999
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 96.130 CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS.
   (A)   General. This chapter shall be enforced by all Code Enforcement
Officers of the City of White Hall. For the purposes of this chapter, a CODE
ENFORCEMENT OFFICER shall be defined as any city employee who has been duty
sworn and authorized to uphold the ordinances of the city and laws of the state
related to property uses, maintenance, nuisances, inspections, issuances of
building permits, certifications and licensing, and the like, within the
municipal boundaries of the city. This chapter may also be enforced by any and
all duly sworn law enforcement officers of the City Police Department.
   (B)   Identification. All Code Enforcement Officers shall carry proper
identification and present the same upon request when performing duties under
this chapter.
   (C)   Rule-making authority. The Code Enforcement Officer shall have
authority as necessary in the interest of public health, safety and general
welfare, to adopt and promulgate administrative and procedural rules and to
interpret and implement the provisions of this chapter in a manner consistent
with the intent thereof. Such rules shall not have the effect of waiving
structural or fire performance requirements specifically provided for in this
chapter, or of violating accepted engineering methods involving public safety.
Rules and interpretations made pursuant to this division are considered to be
administrative determinations subject to appeal as provided by §
96.137. No citations may be issued based upon a rule or interpretation under
this division until interested parties have been informed about the decision
and been afforded an opportunity to appeal. The Code Enforcement Officer shall
maintain, or cause to be maintained, a file of all administrative rules made
pursuant to this division which shall be available for copy and inspection by
the public.
   (D)   Modifications. Whenever there are practical difficulties involved in
carrying out the provisions of this chapter, the Code Enforcement Officer shall
have the authority to grant modifications for individual cases, provided the
Code Enforcement Officer shall first make written findings that a special
condition or circumstance exists such that the strict letter of this chapter is
impractical and the modification is in compliance with the intent and purpose
of this chapter and that such modification does not lessen health, life and
fire safety requirements. The details of action granting modifications shall be
recorded and entered in the department files.
(Ord. 442, passed 3-19-12)
§ 96.131 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Right of entry. Code Enforcement Officers are authorized to enter
structures or premises at reasonable times to inspect subject to constitutional
restrictions on unreasonable searches and seizures. If entry is refused or not
obtained, the officers may pursue such search authorizations as are provided by
law.
   (B)   Inspections. Code Enforcement Officers shall make all of the
inspections required by this chapter. All reports of such inspections shall be
in writing and be certified by the responsible officer. Code Enforcement
Officers are authorized to rely upon a responsible expert opinion as the
officer deems necessary to report upon unusual technical issues that arise.
   (C)   Required testing. Whenever there is insufficient evidence of
compliance with the provisions of this chapter, or evidence that a material or
method does not conform to the requirements of this chapter, or in order to
substantiate claims for alternative materials or methods, the Senior Code
Enforcement Officer shall have the authority to require tests to be made as
evidence of compliance at no expense to the jurisdiction. Reports of tests
shall be recorded and entered in the department files.
   (D)   Material and equipment reuse. Materials, equipment and devices shall
not be reused unless a Code Enforcement Officer finds that such elements are in
good repair or have been reconditioned and tested when necessary, placed in
good and proper working condition and approved.
(Ord. 442, passed 3-19-12)
§ 96.132 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Violations. It shall be unlawful for a person, firm or corporation to
be in conflict with or in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Citations. Code Enforcement Officers are hereby authorized to issue
citations to any person, firm or corporation in conflict with or in violation
of any of the provisions of this chapter. Issuances of citations must comply
with the Arkansas Rules of Criminal Procedures. Jefferson County District Court
shall have exclusive jurisdiction over citations issued pursuant to the
chapter.
   (C)   Appeals. Any person after being found guilty of a violation or after
entering a plea of guilty or nolo contendere to a violation shall have those
appellant rights granted under the laws of the State of Arkansas, U.S.
Constitution and Arkansas Rules of Criminal Procedure. Appeals of convictions
of violation will be with Jefferson County Circuit Court.
(Ord. 442, passed 3-19-12) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.133 REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATES, LICENSES AND PERMITS.
   (A)   General. The purpose of this section is to provide a procedure for the
revocation of various certificates, licenses and permits issued by the city to
prevent the use of structures described in division (B). The certificates,
licenses and permits subject to revocation under this chapter are those
relating to the particular or general use of property; including, without
limitation and for the purpose of illustration only: certificates of occupancy,
zoning variances, certification of appropriateness, business licenses, sign
permits, building permits, electrical and plumbing inspection approvals,
conditional use permits, special use permits, and the like.
   (B)   Administrative revocation.
      (1)   Code Enforcement Officers shall have the authority to initiate
administrative revocation of any such certificate, license or permit, if he or
she has a reasonable belief that the use of the property or structure:
         (a)   Poses a danger to the health and welfare of the public;
         (b)   Threatens property or safety of any citizen;
         (c)   Violates the terms and/or the scope of the certificate, license,
or permit; or
         (d)   Lacks compliance with applicable state licensing laws and
requirements.
      (2)   The non-emergency administrative revocation of a certificate,
license, or permit shall follow the procedures of notice and determination
provided in §
96.134 below.
   (C)   Temporary emergency orders.  The Code Enforcement Officer shall have
the authority to issue a temporary emergency order in conjunction with notice
of an administrative revocation as described in division (B) above. The
temporary emergency order shall have the effect of prohibiting all activity
that may be harmful to the public or any person and suspending any certificate,
license, or permit authorizing the same. The Code Enforcement Officer may issue
a temporary emergency order when he or she has a reasonable belief that the use
of the property or structure:
      (1)   Poses an imminent danger to the health, safety or welfare of the
public; or
      (2)   Threatens the life or poses an imminent danger of serious injury to
any citizen.
   (D)   Service of temporary emergency orders. Service of temporary emergency
orders may be made by any Code Enforcement Officer upon the owner, manager,
employee, or occupant of a structure that is subject to the provisions of
division (C). If no one is located at the structure, the temporary emergency
order shall be affixed to the structure and written notice shall proceed
according to §
96.134(B). All notices for the division shall clearly state “Temporary
Emergency Order” and conform to the requirements of §
96.134(A).
   (E)   Special uses, conditional uses, and other authorizations issued by
City Council. The City Council may revoke a special use, conditional use, or
any other authorization to use property or conduct business that violates the
terms of the use or threatens the property or safety of any citizen, or is
detrimental to the health, safety or welfare of the public. Such a revocation
may be performed at any regular or special meeting of City Council. The
revocation shall be based upon the report of a Code Enforcement Officer,
complaint of a citizen, or sua sponte action by City Council.
(Ord. 442, passed 3-19-12)
§ 96.134 PROCEDURES; NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Notice of violation. “Notice of Violations” shall be written on
standardized or letter form approved by the Code Enforcement Officer that shall
include the following information:
      (1)   The name of the owner, if known;
      (2)   An address or description of the real estate sufficient for
identification;
      (3)   A description of the violation or violations;
      (4)   Rights of appeal under §
96.137;
      (5)   A statement that citations may be issued and fines assessed in
addition to any administrative remedy imposed by the city;
      (6)   Include a statement that the city has a right to cause repairs or
demolition to be made and that the costs may be assessed against the owner and
the property of the owner; and
      (7)   The information required by A.C. § 14-54-903, if applicable.
   (B)   Method of service.  
      (1)   Posting; delivery. Administrative notices (such as a notice of
violation) may be issued by any person authorized under A.C. § 14-54-903 by
posting on the subject property and:
         (a)   By personal service;
         (b)   By regular mail or certified mail, return receipt requested; or
         (c)   When the identity or whereabouts of a person is unknown, by
weekly publication in a newspaper having general circulation throughout the
city for two consecutive weeks.
      (2)   Notice by mail. Notice by mail shall be sent to the owner’s address
of record with the applicable county treasurer or collector. When sent to the
proper address with proper postage, notice by mail shall be deemed properly
served without regard as to whether the owner or occupant accepted the mail or
the mail was otherwise returned.
   (C)   Transfer of ownership. After receiving a notice of violation, it shall
be unlawful for the owner of any property or structure to sell, transfer,
mortgage, lease or otherwise alienate or dispose of the same until:
      (1)   The property or structure has been caused to conform with this
chapter; or
      (2)   The owner shall provide the other party a true copy of any notice
of violation issued by a Code Enforcement Officer and shall furnish to the Code
Enforcement Officer a signed and notarized statement from the other party
accepting responsibility for the property or structure.
   (D)   Exceptions. The notice of violation requirements of this section shall
not apply to the issuances of citations. Issuance of citations must comply with
the procedures described in §
96.132(B).
(Ord. 442, passed 3-19-12) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.135 CONDEMNATION.
   (A)   Authority. In addition to other penalties provided herein but not in
lieu thereof, the City Council may condemn structures through the passage of a
resolution, after a public hearing that shall include:
      (1)   A description of the structures;
      (2)   The owner or owners of the structures; and
      (3)   Findings that the structures are unfit for human occupancy, or
otherwise detrimental to the life, property or safety of the public.
   (B)   Keeping condemned structures prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any
person to own, keep or maintain any structure within the corporate limits of
the city which is condemned by resolution of the City Council.
   (C)   Notices. The Code Enforcement Department shall be responsible for
publication, mailing or delivery of all notices required to condemn structures.
      (1)   Prior notice of proposed condemnation. The owner of the structure
will be provided notice of any proposed condemnation action no less than ten
calendar days prior to consideration by City Council. If appropriate, any and
all lien holders will also be provided notice of any proposed condemnation
action no less than ten calendar days prior to consideration by City Council.
Notice will be provided by the method described in §
96.134(B).
      (2)   Notice of condemnation. After a structure has been condemned by
resolution as provided in this chapter, a certified copy of such resolution
will be mailed to the owners thereof, by the method described in §
96.134(B), and if appropriate, may be recorded in the property records of the
Jefferson Circuit/County Clerk.
      (3)   Notice of certification of costs. After a condemned structure has
been removed at city expense, the owner will be provided not less than ten
calendar days’ prior notice of any action to certify costs by City Council. If
appropriate, any and all lien holders will also be provided no less than ten
calendar days’ prior notice of any action to certify costs by City Council.
Notice will be provided by the method described in §
96.134(B).
   (D)   Destruction and removal. Condemned structures shall be destroyed and
removed from the premises.
      (1)   Destruction and removal by owner. The owner of any structure that
has been condemned by resolution of City Council is permitted to cause, at his
or her own expense, to have the same destroyed and removed within 30 days after
the city has provided notice under division (C)(2). No person is allowed to
repair or refurbish a condemned structure without an agreement approved by City
Council that guarantees repairs will be done in a proper and timely fashion. It
is the owner’s responsibility to obtain a sponsor for any legislation that
would allow the repair or refurbishment of a condemned structure.
      (2)   Destruction and removal by city. If the condemned structure has not
been torn down and removed, or otherwise abated, within 30 days after the
notice requirements of division (C)(2) have been met, then the Code Enforcement
Officer shall supervise the removal of any such structure in such a manner as
deemed appropriate under existing circumstances. If the structure has a
substantial value, it or any saleable materials thereof may be sold at public
sale to the highest bidder for cash using procedures provided by law. The cost
of removal will be presented to the City Council for certification and
collection from the owner.
   (E)   Disposition of proceeds of sale or salvage of condemned structures.
All the proceeds of the sale or salvage of any structure, and all fines
collected from the provisions of this subchapter shall be paid by the persons
collecting the same to the City Treasurer. If any such structure, or the
saleable materials thereof, be sold for an amount which exceeds all costs
incidental to the abatement of the nuisance, including the cleaning up of the
premises by the city, plus any fines imposed, the balance thereof will be
returned by the City Treasurer to the former owners of the house, building and/
or structure constituting the nuisance.
   (F)   Lien on property for net costs. If the city has any net costs in the
removal of any condemned house, building or structure, the city shall have a
lien on the property as provided by A.C. §§ 14-54-903 and 14-54-904.
   (G)   Penalty for violation of subchapter. A penalty as provided by this
chapter is hereby imposed against the owners of any structure condemned by
resolution of the City Council 30 days after such structure has been condemned;
and each day thereafter such nuisance be not abated constitutes a separate and
distinct offense, provided the notice as provided in division (C)(2) above has
been given within ten calendar days after such structure has been condemned.
   (H)   Transfer of ownership. After receiving a notice of condemnation, it
shall be unlawful for the owner of any structure to sell, transfer, mortgage,
lease, or otherwise alienate or dispose of the same until:
      (1)   The property or structure has been caused to conform with this
chapter; or
      (2)   The owner shall provide the other party a true copy of any notice
of violation issued by a Code Enforcement Officer and shall furnish to the Code
Enforcement Officer a signed and notarized statement from the other party
accepting responsibility for the property or structure.
   (I)   Restrictions on utility services to structures declared condemned.
      (1)   The city shall not provide or permit another to provide public or
private utility services, such as water, gas or electricity to any building or
house that has been condemned by the City Council pursuant to A.C. § 14-56-203.
      (2)   Division (I)(1) of this section shall not preclude the temporary
use of such utility services as may be deemed necessary during construction,
repair or alteration. The Code Enforcement Officer shall be responsible for
making the determination as to when such temporary services may be necessary.
   (J)   Court action authorized. If City Council determines that a particular
structure be judicially condemned, the City Council shall direct the City
Attorney to bring such action in the name of the city; and the only notice to
be given to the owners and lien holders will be that as now provided for by
law. When any such structure has been declared judicially to be a nuisance by a
court of law, a penalty as provided by this chapter is hereby imposed against
the owners thereof from the date such finding is made by the court; and each
day thereafter such nuisance is not abated constitutes a separate and distinct
offense.
(Ord. 442, passed 3-19-12) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.136 EMERGENCY PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Temporary safeguards. Notwithstanding other provisions of this
chapter, whenever, in the opinion of the Code Enforcement Officer, there is
imminent danger due to an unsafe condition, the Code Official shall order the
necessary work to be done, including the boarding up of openings, to render
such structure temporarily safe whether or not the legal procedure herein
described has been instituted; and shall cause such other action to be taken as
the Code Official deems necessary to meet such emergency.
   (B)   Closing streets. When necessary for public safety, the Code Official
shall temporarily close structures and close, or order the authority having
jurisdiction to close, sidewalks, streets, public ways and places adjacent to
unsafe structures, and prohibit the same from being utilized.
   (C)   Emergency repairs. For the purposes of this section, the Code
Enforcement Officer shall employ the necessary labor and materials to perform
the required work as expeditiously as possible. Costs incurred in the
performance of emergency work shall be paid by the city. The City Attorney may
institute appropriate action against the owner of the premises where the unsafe
structure is or was located for the recovery of such costs.
(Ord. 442, passed 3-19-12)
§ 96.137 APPEALS.
   (A)   Administrative appeal. Administrative determinations may be appealed
to the City Council. The following actions are not subject to administrative
appeal and shall be appealed in the manner provided by law for those particular
actions:
      (1)   Citations heard in Jefferson County District Court; and
      (2)   Condemnations heard in City Council or a court of law.
   (B)   Timely submission of appeal. Unless otherwise provided in this
chapter, any person affected by a “notice of violation” or other administrative
determination under this chapter may appeal the determination by submitting a
written application to the Code Enforcement Department within five days,
excluding weekends and holidays, after notice of determination has been made.
   (C)   Contents of appeal. A request for an administrative appeal must be
made upon forms approved by the City Council or in any written form that
contains the following information:
      (1)   The date the appeal is submitted;
      (2)   The name and address of the appellant;
      (3)   The address of affected property;
      (4)   A description of the administrative decision being appealed; and
      (5)   The desire that the administrative decision be overturned or
reviewed.
   (D)   Notice of hearing. The City Council shall consider the appeal at the
next available date. The appellant shall be provided notice of the hearing by
first class mail sent to the address shown on the request for administrative
appeal no less than five days, excluding weekends and holidays, prior to the
hearing.
   (E)   Actions pending appeal. No Code Enforcement Officer may take action
based upon an administrative decision while that decision is being appealed
except those listed below:
      (1)   Citations issued under §
96.132(B);
      (2)   Condemnations under §
96.135; or
      (3)   Temporary emergency orders issued under §
96.133(C) and (D).
   (F)   Conduct of hearing. Hearings shall be conducted in an open forum
according to such procedural rules as may be adopted by the City Council. No
administrative decision of a Code Enforcement Officer may be overturned unless
a determination is made that:
      (1)   The true intent of this chapter or the rules legally adopted
thereunder have been incorrectly interpreted;
      (2)   The provisions of this chapter do not fully apply; or
      (3)   The requirements of this chapter are adequately satisfied by other
means.
   (G)   Orders. Upon the conclusion of an appeal, the City Council shall
timely issue orders to guide the actions of the Code Enforcement Department
regarding the appeal.
(Ord. 442, passed 3-19-12)
§ 96.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violations declared to be strict liability misdemeanors. Any person
who is convicted of a violation of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, and the violation shall be deemed a strict liability offense.
   (B)   Fines. Except as otherwise provided, a person convicted of violating
any provision of this chapter shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $500,
or double such sum for each repetition thereof. If the violation is continuous
in nature, the penalty for allowing the continuance thereof is a fine not to
exceed $250 for each day that the violation is unlawfully continued. The judge
will determine the actual fine.
(Ord. 442, passed 3-19-12)
CHAPTER 97: ALARM SYSTEMS
Section
   
97.01   Response to all alarms
   
97.02   Record of false alarms
   
97.03   Defense to the violation
 
   
97.99   Penalty
§ 97.01 RESPONSE TO ALL ALARMS.
   The City Police Department and Fire Department shall respond to all
residential and commercial automatic burglar and fire alarms.
(Ord. 337, passed 4-17-03)
§ 97.02 RECORD OF FALSE ALARMS.
   The City Police Department and Fire Department shall keep a written record
of false alarms for each alarm they respond to, noting the date, address and
time of response.
(Ord. 337, passed 4-17-03)
§ 97.03 DEFENSE TO THE VIOLATION.
   The resident or commercial business owner and/or manager may present to the
City Court written proof of maintenance and repair of the alarm system as an
affirmative defense to the violation.
(Ord. 337, passed 4-17-03)
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   Within a six-month period, if more than one false alarm is responded to, the
resident or the owner and/or manager of the commercial business shall be
penalized as follows:
         First offense         Written warning
         Second offense         $25 fine
         Third offense         $50 fine
         Each additional offense   Mandatory court appearance
(Ord. 337, passed 4-17-03)
CHAPTER 98: CANVASSING, SOLICITATION, AND PEDDLING
Section
   
98.01   Legislative findings
   
98.02   Definitions
   
98.03   Application for license
   
98.04   Contents of application
   
98.05   Denial of application
   
98.06   Appeal
   
98.07   Hours of solicitation
   
98.08   “No peddlers/solicitors” signs
   
98.09   Expiration of license
§ 98.01 LEGISLATIVE FINDINGS.
   A chapter to protect against the criminal activity necessarily associated
with individuals requesting funds from the citizens of the city. And, to ensure
the First Amendment rights of all individuals engaging in any protected
speech.   
(Ord. 484, passed 3-21-16)
§ 98.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms, and phrases, and their derivations, when used in
this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except
where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
   CANVASSER. Any person who attempts to make personal contact with a resident
at his/her residence without prior specific invitation or appointment from the
resident for the primary purpose of furthering any non-commercial cause,
including but not limited to: a particular religion, philosophy, ideology,
political party, issue, or candidate, even if incidental to such purpose the
canvasser accepts the donation of money for or against such case.
   DEPARTMENT. The Police Department.
   MAYOR. The current Mayor of White Hall, Arkansas.
   PEDDLER. Any person who, without invitation, goes from house to house or
from place to place in the city selling or taking orders for or offering to
sell or take orders for goods, wares and merchandise for present or future
delivery or for services to be performed immediately or in the future whether
such person has, carries or exposes a sample of such goods, wares and
merchandise or not and whether he is collecting advance payments on such sales
or not.
   POLICE CHIEF. The current Chief of the White Hall Police Department.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who without invitation, goes upon private property, to
request contribution of funds of anything of value, or sell goods or services
for any non-commercial purposes.
(Ord. 484, passed 3-21-16)
§ 98.03 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Peddlers and solicitors are required to apply for a license under this
chapter.
   (B)   Applicants for license under this chapter shall complete the
application provided by the Police Department and then return the completed
application to the Chief of Police. Once completed and returned, the Police
Chief, or in his absence a designated representative, will either approve or
deny the application based on whether the applicant has provided all
information required under §
98.04, and not in violation of any provisions in §
98.05.
   (C)   All applications must be approved or denied within three business days
of receipt of the completed application. Notice of the decision must be in
writing and mailed to the applicant at the address provided on the application.
If a denial is made, then the Chief of Police will provide each reason why the
application was denied.
   (D)   Canvassers are exempt from all requirements set out in this chapter.
(Ord. 484, passed 3-21-16)
§ 98.04 CONTENTS OF APPLICATION.
   The application shall contain the following information:
   (A)   The name, address, and phone number of the peddler or solicitor;
   (B)   A copy of a photo identification card of the peddler or solicitor;
   (C)   The name and address of the person, firm or corporation for whom the
peddler or solicitor is acting on behalf;
   (D)   The length of service of each peddler or solicitor with such entity;
   (E)   The nature or character of the goods, wares merchandise or services to
be offered by the peddler;
   (F)   A statement as to any convictions of any felonies, or crimes of
dishonesty, the date, the nature of the offense and the penalty assessed
therefor.
(Ord. 484, passed 3-21-16)
§ 98.05 DENIAL OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   The Chief of Police may deny an application under this chapter or
revoke a license issued under this chapter ONLY for the following causes:
      (1)   False statement(s) contained in the application for license;
      (2)   False statement(s) made in the course of carrying on his/her
business as peddler or solicitor;
      (3)   Failure to complete the application;
      (4)   Any violation of this chapter;
      (5)   Conviction of a felony within the previous five years of the
application for license; during the pendency of the application for license; or
during the life of the issued license.
   (B)   In the case of a revocation of a license, the Chief of Police shall
give notice of the revocation and state the reasons for the revocation by
mailing such notice to the applicant at the address provided on the
application.
(Ord. 484, passed 3-21-16)
§ 98.06 APPEAL.
   (A)   In the event that any applicant desires to appeal from any denial or
revocation made under the provisions of this chapter, such applicant or any
other person aggrieved shall file written notice of such appeal with the Mayor.
   (B)   The Mayor shall hold a hearing within three days of notice of the
appeal, at which time the Mayor shall hear and receive evidence, written and
oral upon all matters involved. The Mayor will provide written notice of the
decision, either affirming or reversing the decision of the Chief of Police,
within days of the hearing.
   (C)   If an applicant is still unsatisfied with the result they can file
written notice of appeal to the City Council with the Mayor. The appeal shall
be heard at the next regular meeting of the City Council. The decision of the
City Council will give no deference to the decision made by the Chief of Police
or Mayor, and will be made in writing within three days of the hearing.
   (D)   The Mayor shall notify, in writing, each applicant who appeals of the
time and place of the next scheduled City Council meeting. At each appeal the
applicant may provide evidence on their behalf.
(Ord. 484, passed 3-21-16)
§ 98.07 HOURS OF SOLICITATION.
   No peddling or soliciting shall occur between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 8:
00 a.m.
(Ord. 484, passed 3-21-16)
§ 98.08 “NO PEDDLERS/SOLICITORS” SIGNS.
   It is unlawful for any peddler or solicitor to perform or attempt to perform
the acts described in this chapter at any residence and/or business whereon a
sign bearing the words “No Peddlers,” “No Solicitors” or words of similar
import is painted or affixed so as to be exposed to public view.
(Ord. 484, passed 3-21-16)
§ 98.09 EXPIRATION OF LICENSE.
   A license granted under this chapter will expire 365 days after the issuance
of the license.
(Ord. 484, passed 3-21-16)
CHAPTER 99: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
99.01   Policy
   
99.02   Definitions
   
99.03   Unlawful practice
   
99.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
99.05   Discrimination in the financing of housing
   
99.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services
   
99.07   Exemption
   
99.08   Administration
   
99.09   Education and conciliation
   
99.10   Enforcement
   
99.11   Investigations; subpoenas; giving of evidence
   
99.12   Enforcement by private persons
§ 99.01 POLICY.
   It is the policy of the city to provide, within constitutional limitations,
for fair housing throughout its jurisdiction.
(Ord. 424, passed 6-21-10)
§ 99.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
99.04, 99.05, or 99.06.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or portion thereof which is occupied as,
or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or more families,
and any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or
location thereon of any such building, structure, or portion thereof.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual.
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees
in bankruptcy, receivers, and fiduciaries.
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the right to occupy premises owned by the occupant.
(Ord. 424, passed 6-21-10)
§ 99.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below and §
99.07, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
set forth in §
99.04 shall apply to all dwellings except as exempted by division (B) below.
   (B)   Nothing in §
99.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner; provided, that
such private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family
houses at any one time; provided further, that in the case of the sale of any
such single-family house by a private individual owner not residing in such
house at the time of such sale or who was not the most recent resident of such
house prior to such sale, the exemption granted by this division shall apply
only with respect to one such sale within any 24 month period; provided
further, that such bona fide private individual owner does not own any interest
in, nor is there owned or reserved on his or her behalf, under any express or
voluntary agreement, title to or any right to all or a portion of the proceeds
from the sale or rental of, more than three such single-family houses at any
one time; provided further, that the sale or rental of any such single-family
house shall be excepted from the application of this title only if such house
is sold or rented: (A) without the use in any manner of the sales or rental
facilities or the sales or rental services of any real estate broker, agent, or
salesperson, or of such facilities or services of any person in the business of
selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any such broker,
agent, salesperson, or person; and (B) without the publication, posting or
mailing, after notice of any advertisement or written notice in violation of §
99.04(C) of this chapter, but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use
of attorneys, escrow agents, abstractors, title companies, and other such
professional assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer the title; or
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B) above, a person shall be deemed to be
in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
agent, other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in
providing sales or rental facilities or sales or rental services in two or more
transactions involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest
therein; or
      (3)   He or she is the owner of any dwelling designed or intended for
occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 424, passed 6-21-10)
§ 99.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
99.03, and except as exempted by §§
99.03(B) and 99.07, it is unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, or national
origin.
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, or
national origin.
   (C)   To make, print or publish, or cause to be made, printed or published
any notice, statement, or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of
a dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination based
on race, color, religion, or national origin, or an intention to make any such
preference, limitation, or discrimination.
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, or
national origin that any dwelling is not available for inspection, sale, or
rental when such dwelling is in fact so available.
   (E)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or prospective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
or national origin.
(Ord. 424, passed 6-21-10)
§ 99.05 DISCRIMINATION IN THE FINANCING OF HOUSING.
   It shall be unlawful for any bank, building and loan association, insurance
company or other corporation, association, firm or enterprise whose business
consists in whole or in part in the making of commercial real estate loans, to
deny a loan or other financial assistance to a person applying therefor for the
purpose of purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or maintaining a
dwelling, or to discriminate against him or her in the fixing of the amount,
interest rate, duration, or other terms or conditions of such loan or other
financial assistance, because of the race, color, religion, or national origin
of such person or of any person associated with him or her in connection with
such loan or other financial assistance or the purposes of such loan or other
financial assistance, or of the present or prospective owners, lessees,
tenants, or occupants of the dwelling or dwellings in relation to which such
loan or other financial assistance is to be made or given, provided that
nothing contained in this section shall impair the scope or effectiveness of
the exception contained in §
99.03(B).
(Ord. 424, passed 6-21-10)
§ 99.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers organization
or other service, organization, or facility relating to the business of selling
or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her in the terms or
conditions of such access, membership, or participation, on account of race,
color, religion, or national origin.
(Ord. 424, passed 6-21-10)
§ 99.07 EXEMPTION.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by, or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color, or
national origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not
in fact open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or
purposes provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a
commercial purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodgings to
its members or from giving preference to its members.
(Ord. 424, passed 6-21-10)
§ 99.08 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The Chief Executive Officer of the city shall have the authority and
responsibility for administering this chapter.
   (B)   The Chief Executive Officer may delegate any of these functions,
duties, and powers to employees of the city or to boards of such employees,
including functions, duties, and powers with respect to investigating,
conciliating, hearing, determining, ordering, certifying, reporting or
otherwise acting as to any work, business, or matter under this chapter. The
Chief Executive Officer shall by rule prescribe such rights of appeal from the
decisions of his or her hearing examiners to other hearing examiners or to
other officers in the city, to boards of officers or to him or herself, as
shall be appropriate and in accordance with law.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies shall administer their programs
and activities relating to housing and urban development in a manner
affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter and shall cooperate with
the Chief Executive Officer to further such purposes.
(Ord. 424, passed 6-21-10)
§ 99.09 EDUCATION AND CONCILIATION.
   Immediately after the enactment of this chapter, the Chief Executive Officer
shall commence such educational and conciliatory activities as will further the
purposes of this chapter. He or she shall call conferences of persons in the
housing industry and other interested parties to acquaint them with the
provisions of this chapter and his or her suggested means of implementing it,
and shall endeavor with their advice to work out programs of voluntary
compliance and of enforcement.
(Ord. 424, passed 6-21-10)
§ 99.10 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any person who claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing
practice or who believes that he or she will be irrevocably injured by a
discriminatory housing practice that is about to occur (hereafter “person
aggrieved”) may file a complaint with the Chief Executive Officer. Complaints
shall be in writing and shall contain such information and be in such form, as
the Chief Executive Officer requires. Upon receipt of such a complaint, the
Chief Executive Officer shall furnish a copy of the same to the person or
persons who allegedly committed or is or was about to commit the alleged
discriminatory housing practice. Within 30 days after receiving a complaint, or
within 30 days after the expiration of any period of reference under division
(C) below, the Chief Executive Officer shall investigate the complaint and give
notice in writing to the person aggrieved whether he or she intends to resolve
it. If the Chief Executive Officer decides to resolve the complaints, he or she
shall proceed to try to eliminate or correct the alleged discriminatory housing
practice by informal methods of conference, conciliation, and persuasion.
Nothing said or done in the course of such informal endeavors may be made
public or used as evidence in a subsequent proceeding under this chapter
without the written consent of the persons concerned. Any employee of the Chief
Executive Officer who shall make public any information in violation of this
provision shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof
shall be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than one year.
   (B)   A complaint under division (A) above shall be filed within 180 days
after the alleged discriminatory housing practice occurred. Complaints shall be
in writing and shall state the facts upon which the allegations of a
discriminatory housing practice are based. Complaints may be reasonably and
fairly amended at any time. A respondent may file an answer to the complaint
against him or her and with the leave of the Chief Executive Officer, which
shall be granted whenever it would be reasonable and fair to do so, may amend
his or her answer at any time. Both complaints and answers shall be verified.
   (C)   If within 30 days after a complaint is filed with the Chief Executive
Officer, he or she has been unable to obtain voluntary compliance with this
chapter, the person aggrieved may, within 30 days thereafter, file a complaint
with the Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development. The
Chief Executive Officer will assist in filing.
   (D)   If the Chief Executive Officer has been unable to obtain voluntary
compliance within 30 days of the complaint, the person aggrieved may, within 30
days hereafter, commence a civil action in any appropriate court against the
respondent named in the complaint, to enforce the rights granted or protected
by this chapter, insofar as such rights relate to the subject of the complaint.
If the court finds that a discriminatory housing practice has occurred or is
about to occur, the court may enjoin the respondent from engaging in such
practice or order such affirmative action as may be appropriate.
   (E)   In proceedings brought pursuant to this section, the burden of proof
shall be on the complainant.
   (F)   Whenever an action filed by an individual shall come to trial, the
Chief Executive Officer shall immediately terminate all efforts to obtain
voluntary compliance.
(Ord. 424, passed 6-21-10)
§ 99.11 INVESTIGATIONS; SUBPOENAS; GIVING OF EVIDENCE.
   (A)   In conducting an investigation, the Chief Executive Officer shall have
access at all reasonable times to premises, records, documents, individuals,
and other evidence or possible sources of evidence and may examine, record, and
copy such materials and take and record the testimony or statements of such
persons as are reasonably necessary for the furtherance of the investigation;
provided, however, that the Chief Executive Officer first complies with the
provisions of the Fourth Amendment relating to unreasonable searches and
seizures. The Chief Executive Officer may issue subpoenas to compel his or her
access to or the production of such materials, or the appearance of such
persons, and may issue interrogatories to a respondent, to the same extent and
subject to the same limitations as would apply if the subpoenas or
interrogatories were issued or served in aid of a civil action in the United
States district court for the district in which the investigation is taking
place. The Chief Executive Officer may administer oaths.
   (B)   Upon written application to the Chief Executive Officer, a respondent
shall be entitled to the issuance of a reasonable number of subpoenas by and in
the name of the Chief Executive Officer to the same extent and subject to the
same limitations as subpoenas issued by the Chief Executive Officer him or
herself. Subpoenas issued at the request of a respondent shall show on their
face the name and address of such respondent and shall state that they were
issued at his or her request.
   (C)   Witnesses summoned by subpoena of the Chief Executive Officer shall be
entitled to the same witness and mileage fees as are witnesses in proceedings
in United States district courts. Fees payable to a witness summoned by a
subpoena issued at the request of a respondent shall be paid by him or her.
   (D)   Within five days after service of a subpoena upon any person, such
person may petition the Chief Executive Officer to revoke or modify the
subpoena. The Chief Executive Officer shall grant the petition if he or she
finds that the subpoena requires appearance or attendance at an unreasonable
time or place, that it requires production of evidence which does not relate to
any matter under investigation, that it does not describe with sufficient
particularity the evidence to be produced, that compliance would be unduly
onerous, or for other good reason.
   (E)   In case of contumacy or refusal to obey a subpoena, the Chief
Executive Officer or person at whose request it was issued may petition for
enforcement in the municipal or state court for the district in which the
person to whom the subpoena was addressed resides, was served, and the like.
   (F)   Any person who willfully fails or neglects to attend and testify or to
answer any lawful inquiry or to produce records, documents, or other evidence,
if in his or her power to do so, in obedience to the subpoena or lawful order
of the Chief Executive Officer shall be fined not more than $1,000 or
imprisoned not more than one year, or both. Any person who, with intent thereby
to mislead the Chief Executive Officer, shall make or cause to be made any
false entry or statement of fact in any report, account, record, or other
document submitted to the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to his or her
subpoena or other order, or shall willfully neglect or fail to make or cause to
be made full, true, and correct entries in such reports, accounts, records, or
other documents, or shall willfully mutilate, alter, or by any other means
falsify any documentary evidence, shall be fined not more than $1,000 or
imprisoned not more than one year, or both.
   (G)   The grantee’s attorney shall conduct all litigation in which the Chief
Executive Officer participates as a party or as amicus pursuant to this
chapter.
(Ord. 424, passed 6-21-10)
§ 99.12 ENFORCEMENT BY PRIVATE PERSONS.
   (A)   The rights granted by §§
99.03,
99.04,
99.05, and
99.06 may be enforced by civil actions in state or local courts of general
jurisdiction. A civil action shall be commenced within 180 days after the
alleged discriminatory housing practice occurred; provided, however, that the
court shall continue such civil case brought pursuant to this section or §
99.10(D) from time to time before bringing it to trial or renting dwellings.
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion or national origin, in any of the activities, services, organizations
or facilities described in this chapter; or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection to participate.
   (C)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been, or in order to
discourage such or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or encouraging other
persons to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion or national origin, in any of the activities, services, organizations
or facilities described in this chapter, or participating lawfully in speech or
peaceful assembly opposing any denial of the opportunity to so participate
shall be fined not more than $1,000, or imprisoned not more than one year, or
both; and if bodily injury results shall be fined not more than $10,000, or
imprisoned not more than ten years, or both; and if death results shall be
subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for life.
(Ord. 424, passed 6-21-10)
CHAPTER 100: INSTALLATION IN RIGHT-OF-WAY FOR CERTAIN PUBLIC UTILITY AND
COMMUNICATION PROVIDERS
Section
   
100.01   Authority acknowledged
   
100.02   Local compliance mandated
   
100.03   Fee imposed
   
100.04   Payment
   
100.05   Interference with right-of-way or other services prohibited
   
100.06   Restoration of property, damages
   
100.07   Maintenance
   
100.08   Audit
   
100.09   Liaison
   
100.10   Violations
   
100.11   Territory modifications
§ 100.01 AUTHORITY ACKNOWLEDGED.
   The city hereby acknowledges that certain public utility and communication
providers have been authorized by Arkansas law to install lines and facilities
in the city right-of-way (“franchisees”).
(Ord. 556, passed 4-15-24)
§ 100.02 LOCAL COMPLIANCE MANDATED.
   Pursuant to A.C. § 14-200-101(b) and A.C. § 23-19-205(d), franchisees shall
comply with city ordinances that govern the construction, development, and use
of land in the city including, without limitation, the zoning ordinance, the
subdivision ordinance, building permit requirements, excavation permit
requirements, requirements to block or cut streets, permits to install
attachments to city property, and the like. To the extent that any requirement
within a city ordinance is in irreparable conflict with a federal or state law,
the federal or state law will prevail, but only to the extent of the conflict.
(Ord. 556, passed 4-15-24)
§ 100.03 FEE IMPOSED.
   (A)   Public utilities. For purposes of this chapter the term “public
utility” shall have the meaning assigned by A.C. § 14-200-101(a). A franchisee
that is a public utility shall pay to the city an amount equal to 4.25% of the
gross revenue collected by the franchisee from the franchisee's customers in
the city (“franchise fee”). The imposition of this franchise fee shall be
imposed gradually as follows:
      (1)   The franchise fee shall increase to 2.25% and continue at this rate
for a period of two years (the "initial period”);
      (2)   After the initial period, the franchise fee shall increase by 2% to
4.25%.
      (3)   For franchisees that only provide telephone service, franchise fees
shall consist of revenues from basic local service only. This section shall not
be interpreted to limit the authority of a public utility to collect from its
customers an amount that equals the franchise fee assessed.
   (B)   Cable and video communications. For purposes of this chapter, the
terms “cable service” and “video service" shall have the meanings assigned by
A.C. § 23-19-202. A franchisee that provides cable service and/or video service
shall pay to the city an amount equal to 5% of the gross revenue collected by
the franchisee from the franchisees customers in the city ("video service fee")
as described in A.C. § 23-19-206. This section shall not be interpreted to
limit the authority of a cable service provider or video service provider to
collect from its customers an amount that equals the video service fee
assessed.
(Ord. 556, passed 4-15-24)
§ 100.04 PAYMENT.
   Franchisees shall tender payment of fees assessed under this chapter on a
quarterly basis. On the forty-fifth day after the close of each calendar
quarter during which services were provider, franchisees shall tender the
appropriate payment to the City Clerk with a report of gross revenues from the
city and such additional information as may be required to demonstrate
compliance with this chapter. Late payments shall be accompanied with interest
calculated at 10% per annum, or the maximum amount allowed by law.
(Ord. 556, passed 4-15-24)
§ 100.05 INTERFERENCE WITH RIGHT-OF-WAY OR OTHER SERVICES PROHIBITED.
   Franchisee shall not interfere with the use of public rights-of-way for
traffic or the furnishing of services by utilities or other communication
providers. Franchisee shall strictly comply with the Arkansas Underground
Facilities Damage Prevention Act (A.C. §§ 14-271-101, et seq.), national
standards for the construction of communication facilities (such as, the
National Electric Code and National Electric Safety Code), ordinances of
general applicability governing work in the right-of-way, appearance standards
established under the Historic Districts Act (A.C. §§ 14-172-201, et seq.), and
appearance standards lawfully established by public or private right.
(Ord. 556, passed 4-15-24)
§ 100.06 RESTORATION OF PROPERTY, DAMAGES.
   Franchisee shall promptly repair or fairly compensate property owners for
damage to property or harm to persons caused by franchisee, contractors on
behalf of franchisee, or both, within the city.
(Ord. 556, passed 4-15-24)
§ 100.07 MAINTENANCE.
   Franchisees shall maintain public utility and communication infrastructure
in a commercially reasonable manner. Franchisees shall remove any public
utility communication infrastructure that is defective or unused for over one
year; provided that, underground infrastructure may be abandoned in place when
the city determines that the burden of removal outweighs the benefit of
removal.
(Ord. 556, passed 4-15-24)
§ 100.08 AUDIT.
   Franchisees shall maintain records for a period of three years after each
franchise payment is due. Upon reasonable advance written notice, the city may
audit a franchisee's records no more than once per calendar year.
(Ord. 556, passed 4-15-24)
§ 100.09 LIAISON.
   Franchisees shall identify one or more employees of the franchisee to serve
as a liaison to responsively communicate with the city regarding any issues of
the franchisee that may arise in the city. The franchisee will provide the city
the name, title, phone number, and email address of such liaisons to the City
Clerk and ensure that such information is current at all times.
(Ord. 556, passed 4-15-24)
§ 100.10 VIOLATIONS.
   Failure of a franchisee to comply with the requirements of this chapter
shall not be deemed a violation unless and until 30 days have elapsed since the
city provided written notice of the compliance failure to the franchisee and
the franchisee has failed or refused to correct the same, in which case the
franchisee shall be subject to the penalties described in A.C. § 14-200-102.
Additionally, the City Attorney is authorized to file complaints or other legal
actions in such forums as may be deemed necessary or advisable to enforce the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 556, passed 4-15-24)
§ 100.11 TERRITORY MODIFICATIONS.
   The City Clerk shall notify franchisees of any change to the city's
municipal boundary. Franchisees shall apply this chapter to all newly acquired
areas no later than 90 days after such notification is made.
(Ord. 556, passed 4-15-24)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110. OCCUPATION TAX
      
111. CABLE TELEVISION
      
112. FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS
      
113. SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
CHAPTER 110: OCCUPATION TAX
Section
   
110.01   License required; terms
   
110.02   Gross value of stock inventory
   
110.03   Delinquency penalty
   
110.04   Form of license
   
110.05   License for each separate business
   
110.06   Posting license
   
110.07   Nontransferability
   
110.08   Privileges not included in schedule or other ordinance
   
110.09   Fraudulent affidavit
   
110.10   Prerequisite to issuance of license
   
110.11   Licensing guidelines for fund raising events
   
110.12   License tax schedule
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 LICENSE REQUIRED; TERMS.
   (A)   The carrying on of any business, profession, or occupation of whatever
kind or nature within the city is hereby declared to be a privilege and any
person, firm or corporation engaged in any business, occupation or profession
of whatsoever kind or nature within the city shall pay an annual occupation tax
for the privilege of carrying on such business, occupation or profession within
the city unless otherwise herein expressly provided, all occupation license
taxes shall be payable upon January 1 of each year and shall expire upon
December 31.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, whether as
principal or agent, to commence, engage in, or carry on any form of the
aforesaid business, occupations, or corporations within the city without having
first paid the occupation tax and procured a license therefor.
(Ord. 237, passed 11-13-95) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.02 GROSS VALUE OF STOCK INVENTORY.
   Any person, firm or corporation within the city engaging in the business of
selling any and all kinds of goods, wares and merchandise, whether raw
materials or finished products, or both, from a regularly established place of
business maintained within the city shall pay on the first day of January
of each year an annual occupation tax to be based on the gross value of the
average stock inventory for the preceding year, as set out in §
110.12. The value of the goods shall be the price paid therefor by the
taxpayer. Said inventory shall be furnished to the city in a sworn affidavit
setting forth the amount of such average inventory. The Clerk-Treasurer or a
duly authorized deputy shall have the right to check and audit the stock,
books, records of any person, firm or corporation subject to the license fees
as provided in this section. Should any person, firm or corporation refuse to
allow the Clerk-Treasurer to examine the stocks, books and records, the Clerk-
Treasurer shall refuse to issue a license to such person, firm or corporation,
provided, however, if a license has been issued the Clerk-Treasurer shall
immediately revoke such license under such circumstances.
(Ord. 237, passed 11-13-95)
§ 110.03 DELINQUENCY PENALTY.
   The Clerk/Treasurer shall collect penalties for failure to pay occupation
tax as provided in this chapter as follows:
   (A)   Thirty percent of amount due when the payment is 30 days past the due
date of January 31 of said year.
   (B)   Fifty percent of amount due when the payment is 60 days past the due
date of January 31 of said year.
(Ord. 237, passed 11-13-95; Am. Ord. 558, passed 9-16-24)
§ 110.04 FORM OF LICENSE.
   It shall be the duty of the Clerk-Treasurer upon receipt of the amount of
occupation tax provided herein to issue a license for every person, firm or
corporation liable to pay such a tax, and to state in each license issued the
amount thereof, the period of time covered thereby, the name of the person,
firm or corporation to whom issued, the business occupation or profession being
carried on, and in no sense shall mistake in stating or computing the amount of
a license due, prevent or prejudice the collection by the city of what shall
actually be due under this chapter. The Clerk-Treasurer will not issue an
occupation license to any person who is delinquent in the payment of occupation
license for preceding years; nor shall they issue an occupation license to any
person whose place of business does not conform to the city zoning laws or
other regulations pertaining to buildings. It shall be the duty of the
Department of Planning and Zoning to provide the proper data to the Clerk-
Treasurer for this purpose.
(Ord. 237, passed 11-13-95)
§ 110.05 LICENSE FOR EACH SEPARATE BUSINESS.
   Any person, firm or corporation engaging in more than one business,
occupation or profession,
and for which a license is required of each, shall pay for and take out a
separate license for each such business, occupation or profession.
(Ord. 237, passed 11-13-95) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.06 POSTING LICENSE.
   Each license shall be posted in a conspicuous place where such business,
occupation or profession is carried on, and the holder of such license shall
show such license to any agent of the city upon request.
(Ord. 237, passed 11-13-95) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.07 NONTRANSFERABILITY.
   The licenses issued hereunder shall not be transferrable, and the licenses
issued so state on the face thereof.
(Ord. 237, passed 11-13-95)
§ 110.08 PRIVILEGES NOT INCLUDED IN SCHEDULE OR OTHER ORDINANCE.
   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized to collect privilege taxes on
businesses, occupations or professions not included in this chapter or covered
by any city ordinance. Such taxes shall be reasonable and comparable with the
privilege taxes of similar businesses, and such privilege tax shall be in the
amount of not less than $20 nor more than $50 per year. Such privilege tax so
set shall be effective until superseded by city ordinance.
(Ord. 237, passed 11-13-95)
§ 110.09 FRAUDULENT AFFIDAVIT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly and willfully make any
false written affidavit as to the amount of stock on hand, or volume or gross
receipts, revenues, or business, or amount of capital invested in business, or
number of employees or vehicles used, or to file such false affidavits with the
Clerk/Treasurer or any license collector or inspector or any deputy license
inspector or collector, for the purpose of defrauding the city by procuring a
license for a less sum than is lawfully due by the affiant, or his principal.
(Ord. 237, passed 11-13-95) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.10 PREREQUISITE TO ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   A letter of compliance from the state department of health must be presented
to the Clerk-Treasurer or proper city authority before a privilege license can
be issued in applicable cases.
(Ord. 237, passed 11-13-95)
§ 110.11 LICENSING GUIDELINES FOR FUND RAISING EVENTS.
   When nonprofit organizations sponsor a fund raising event such as circus,
carnivals, etc. the following guidelines shall be followed:
   (A)   If the nonprofit organization takes the risk of the venture and does
not guarantee the vendor a predetermined amount of remuneration for his
services, the city shall not charge a fee for holding the event.
   (B)   If the nonprofit organization is guaranteed a predetermined amount of
remuneration by the vendor and the risk of the venture is born by the vendor,
the city will charge the vendor an occupation license for the event.
(Ord. 237, passed 11-13-95)
§ 110.12 LICENSE TAX SCHEDULE.
 
Business Base Annual Charge + Variable
Business                                                                          Base Annual Charge + Variable
Administrative office complex                                                     $ 100.00
Advertising airplane                                                              35.00
Each person engaged in hauling tail signs or doing skywriting
Advertising signs:                                                                 
(1)   Billboards                                                               35.00 + $3.50 per billboard
(2)   Electrical and neon sign installation                                    35.00 ($100.00) electrical
                                                                                  permit required
Air conditioning and heating (HVAC):                                              100.00 + $5,000.00 bond
Air conditioning and heating:                                                     75.00 + bond
Installation only
Amusement, carnivals                                                              25.00 per week
Amusement clubs                                                                   25.00
No alcohol served
Amusement shows, events, exhibitions, etc., other than circus or carnival (where  25.00 first day
admission is charged, for profit)                                                 10.00 each additional day
Apartments/duplexes                                                               25.00 per unit
(2 or more units in same building)
Appliance sales and service                                                       50.00 + 10.00 each mechanic
Art, antique, gift shops                                                          Stock tax scale
Auctioneer:
(1)   Resident                                                                  
(2)   Transient                                                                   $ 25.00
State law reference - auctioneer license,                                            25.00 per sale
A.C. § 26-77-204
Automobile:                                                                        
(1)   Repair shop 1-3 mechanics                                                   25.00
Each additional mechanic                                                             10.00
(2)   Service station:                                                            20.00 per nozzle or dispenser
(includes operation of battery charger, cold drink                                 
box, wash/grease rack, accessories up to $500.00                                   
per pump)                                                                          
(3)   Car wash:                                                                 
Automatic, per unit                                                                  50.00
User operated, per stall                                                             15.00
(4)   New car sales                                                               100.00
Used car sales                                                                       100.00
(5)   Wrecker and towing service                                                  35.00
Barbershops/beauty shops:                                                          
First chair                                                                          25.00
Each additional chair                                                                7.50
Billiards and pool tables:                                                         
First table                                                                          25.00
Each additional table                                                                10.00
Other coin operated amusement/vending machines                                       5.00 each
Blacksmith                                                                           35.00
Bridal counselor                                                                     25.00
Cafeteria, café, restaurant, or any place where food is prepared and served to      35.00
the public                                                                         
                                                                                  
Where food is consumed on parking lot or outside building where served, in           35.00
addition to where food is consumed inside building                                 
                                                                                  
In addition for each seating space                                                 
                                                                                     .50
Carpet:                                                                            
Carpet and rug laying                                                             See contractors
Carpet/rug/mattress cleaning                                                         $ 25.00
Catering service                                                                     50.00
Ceramic shop                                                                         25.00
Chemical manufacturer and/or dealer:                                               
(1)   Agent/salesman:                                                           
(a) Resident                                                                         25.00
(b) Transient                                                                     See peddlers
(2)   Merchant/dealer                                                          Stock tax scale
Clothing store:                                                                    
(1)   New/seconds                                                              Stock tax scale
(2)   Used                                                                     Stock tax scale
Coffee, tea, cheese products, spices:                                              
Where sold from truck or car on a door to door basis                              See peddlers
(with or without premiums)
Contractors:                                                                       
   All contractors must furnish a $5,000.00 bond and pay $10.00 each for        
employees in excess of five.                                                       
   All general contractors or builders will be responsible for their            
subcontractors to have their city occupation license before they will be           
permitted to start work.                                                           
   (1)   Class I, building permits $0 - $50,000                              
   (2)   Class II, building permits $50,000 - $200,000                         100.00 + $5,000.00 bond
   (3)   Class III, building permits $200,000 - $500,000                       300.00 + $5,000.00 bond
   (4)   Class IV, building permits over $500,000                              500.00 + $5,000.00 bond
   (5)   Class V                                                               700.00 + $5,000.00 bond
                                                                                    75.00 + 5,000.00 bond
Contractors:                                                                       
Subcontractors shall include, but not be limited to the following:                 
(a)   Floor finishing                                                           
(b)   Concrete finishing                                                        
(c)   Insulation and weather stripping                                          
(d)   Masonry, block, brick, store work                                         
(e)   Roofers                                                                   
(f)   Painting and decorating (includes paper                                   
hangers)                                                                           
(g)   Carpentry                                                                 
(h)   Plumbing                                                                  
(I)   Electrical                                                                
(j)   Tile setters                                                              
(k)   Cabinet inst.                                                             
(l)   Carpet/rug laying                                                         
(6)   Class VI: All persons engaged in the major                                
construction of roads or the laying of sewer mains/trunk lines or laterals, per      $ 75.00
tradesman                                                                          
(7)   Class VII:                                                                
(a)   Housemovers                                                               
(b)   Housewreckers                                                               50.00 + $5,000.00 bond
                                                                                     50.00 + $5,000.00 bond
Cosmetics:                                                                         
Retail selling from door to door in residential areas                             See peddlers
Dancing school or:                                                                 
(1)   Private instructor                                                          35.00
(2)   School                                                                      35.00
Developers (one who builds to sell three or more houses                              50.00
per year)
Drapery shop                                                                         50.00
Dressmakers:                                                                       
(1)   Independent                                                                 25.00
(2)   Dressing firm                                                               25.00 + $15.00 per
                                                                                  dressmaker
Dry cleaning and laundry                                                           
Pickup and delivery                                                                  35.00
Drug store                                                                        Stock tax scale
Electricians                                                                      See contractors
Electronic repairs                                                                   $ 50.00
Exterminators                                                                        $ 50.00
Doing repair work                                                                    35.00
Fence: sales and installation                                                        50.00
Financial institutions                                                               200.00
Fire extinguisher sales and services                                                 25.00
Fireworks (Police or Fire Chief approval)                                            250.00
Flea market                                                                          200.00 + $5.00 per booth or
(Must have Health Department approval)                                            vendor per weekend
Florist and greenhouse                                                               25.00
Florist:                                                                           
(1)   Retail (does not include nursery)                                           35.00
(2)   Wholesale                                                                   50.00
(3)   Leasing                                                                     25.00
(4)   Each tax in addition to each other appropriate tax                        
(5)   Nursery                                                                  Stock tax scale
                                                                                   
Foundry: 1 to 3 mechanics                                                            35.00
Fruit stand                                                                       Stock tax scale
Furniture repair and upholstery:                                                   
1 to 3 repairmen                                                                     50.00
Funeral home                                                                         150.00 + 25.00 per car
Fortune tellers, palm readers                                                        100.00
Gardener                                                                             50.00
Grease trap service                                                                  50.00
Grocery store                                                                     Stock tax scale
Gun dealer or shop                                                                Stock tax scale
Hardware, retail/wholesale                                                        Stock tax scale
Health spa/club/tanning salon                                                        50.00
Home rentals (more than 2)                                                           100.00 + $50.00 each home
Hotel/motel:                                                                       
(1)   1 - 20 units                                                                5.00 per unit
(2)   Over 20 units                                                               100.00 + $6.00 per unit over 20
House builders                                                                    See contractors
House movers                                                                      See contractors
House demolishers                                                                 See contractors
Household repairs:                                                                   $ 50.00
Small appliances, stove, sewing machine, etc.                                      
(1)   Appliances:                                                               
(a)   Independent mechanic                                                        50.00 + 10.00 each mechanic
(b)   Appliance repair shop, more than one                                        50.00 + 10.00 each
mechanic                                                                           
(2)   Automobile, all types of repair not otherwise stated                        50.00
(3)   Bicycle                                                                   
(4)   Electronic repair                                                           35.00
(a)   Independent                                                               
(b)   Shop                                                                        35.00
(5)   Gas motor and small engines                                                 50.00
(6)   Refrigeration repair:                                                       35.00
(a)   Independent mechanic                                                      
(b)   Appliance repair shop, more than one                                        35.00
mechanic                                                                             50.00
(7)   Shoe repair                                                               
(8)   All other repair, not otherwise listed                                      35.00
                                                                                     35.00
Ice cream cart/truck                                                                 25.00
Installment goods sellers:                                                         
One operator self-employed                                                           35.00
All over one operator, each                                                          50.00
Insurance                                                                            100.00
Janitorial services                                                                  35.00
Karate                                                                               50.00
Landscape work, landscaping                                                          35.00 + 5.00 per employee
Locksmith                                                                            35.00
Machine shop                                                                         50.00
Manufacturers                                                                      
(1)   1 - 3 employees                                                             35.00
(2)   4 - 50 employees                                                            50.00 + $5.00 per employee
                                                                                 over 3
(3)   51 - 200                                                                    150.00 + $5.00 per employee
                                                                                 over 50
(4)   201 - 400                                                                   500.00 + $5.00 per employee
                                                                                  over 200
Merchant not otherwise listed                                                     Stock tax scale
Milk delivery door to door                                                           $ 35.00
Minstrel shows, per day                                                              50.00
Motorcycle dealers, new/used                                                      Stock tax scale
Nursery, child or day care                                                           5.00 per child
(More than 10 requires Health Department approval)
Nursery, shrubbery, trees, greenhouse, in addition to any                         Stock tax scale
other business tax
Nursing home/nursing service or retirement home:                                   
(1)   Profit                                                                      50.00 + $5.00 per bed
(2)   Nonprofit                                                                Exempt
Pawn brokers                                                                         125.00
Peddlers:                                                                            1,000.00 bond and appropriate peddler's fee
                                                                                  
Peddler, itinerant and transient                                                     25.00 per month
(1)   Peddler on foot - confections and kindred lines, dry goods and merchandisdo not pro rate
                                                                                  
(2)   Peddler - produce, retail                                                   25.00 per month
                                                                                 do not pro rate
                                                                                  
(3)   Peddler - truck, autos or other vehicles, sales, peddling food products,    25.00 per vehicle per year
confections, tobacco and/or other merchandise                                     do not pro rate
Pet care - grooming and breeding                                                     35.00
Pet shop and supplies                                                             Stock tax scale
Plumbers                                                                          See contractors
Pallet manufacturing                                                              See manufacturers
Photographers:                                                                     
(1)   Itinerant, per week                                                         35.00
(2)   Quick finish                                                                25.00
Professionals:                                                                     
All professionals shall be calculated per firm member or associate; it is the      
responsibility of company owners to collect from employees and pay tax as a        
company entity and not individually.                                               
                                                                                  
(1)   Accountant and auditor, licensed                                            $ 150.00
(2)   Accountant/bookkeeper, unlicensed                                           100.00
(3)   Chiropractor                                                                150.00
(4)   Dental hygienist or assistant                                               35.00
(5)   Dentist                                                                     150.00
(6)   Engineer                                                                    100.00
(7)   Interior decorator                                                          50.00
(8)   Manicurist                                                                  35.00
(9)   Medical doctor                                                              150.00
(10)   Music teacher                                                              25.00
(11)   Nurses, registered                                                         35.00
(12)   Optician                                                                   50.00
(13)   Optometrist                                                                150.00
(14)   Other professionals, licensed                                              100.00
(15)   Other paraprofessionals                                                    50.00
(16)   Pharmacist                                                              Stock tax scale
(17)   Real estate agencies:                                                      100.00
(18)   Surveyor                                                                 
(19)   Veterinarian                                                               50.00
                                                                                     150.00
Real estate developers                                                               50.00
Rummage sales                                                                        5.00 per weekend
Slot machines                                                                      
(1)   Amusement games such as rifles, miniature football, golf, baseball, hocke   5.00 each machine
bumper pool, tennis and other miniature games where the charge for playing is      
collected by a mechanical device                                                   
(2)   Weight and vending machines requiring a penny                             
(3)   Music machines, marble machines, etc., where such machines require $.05 o   2.50 each machine
more                                                                                 5.00 each machine
(4)   Merchandise vending machines requiring $.05 or more                       
                                                                                     5.00 each machine
Solicitors                                                                        See peddlers
Small gasoline motor repair shop: lawn mowers, outboard,                             $50.00 + 10.00 each mechanic
etc.
Stock tax scale (based on wholesale inventory)                                     
Less than $2,000.00                                                                  15.00
$2,000.00 to $3,999.00                                                               20.00
$4,000.00 to $5,999.00                                                               25.00
$6,000.00 to $7,999.00                                                               30.00
$8,000.00 to $9,999.00                                                               35.00
$10,000.00 to $11,999.00                                                             40.00
$12,000.00 to $13,999.00                                                             45.00
$14,000.00 to $15,999.00                                                             50.00
$16,000.00 to $17,999.00                                                             55.00
$18,000.00 to $19,999.00                                                             60.00
$20,000.00 to $24,999.00                                                             80.00
$25,000.00 to $29,999.00                                                             100.00
$30,000.00 to $34,999.00                                                             120.00
$35,000.00 to $39,999.00                                                             140.00
$40,000.00 to $44,999.00                                                             160.00
$45,000.00 to $49,999.00                                                             180.00
$50,000.00 to $54,999.00                                                             200.00
$55,000.00 to $100,000.00                                                            200.00 + $20.00 for every
                                                                                 $5,000.00 up to $100,000.00
Over $100,000.00                                                                     380.00 + $25.00 for every
                                                                                  $5,000.00 over $100,000.00
Storage rental                                                                       50.00 + $5.00 each unit
Savings and loan associations                                                        175.00
Sporting goods store                                                              Stock tax scale
Trailer park or mobile home park:                                                    35.00
Per trailer                                                                          5.00 per space
Mobile home rental                                                                   10.00 per rental
Tree service: pruning, treating, feeding, trimming, felling,
(does not include right-of-way clearing or maintenance for utility lines)            50.00
$5,000.00 bond required
Taxidermist                                                                          35.00
Uniform rental                                                                       35.00
Vending Machines                                                                     $25.00
Washateria-laundromat:                                                             
First ten washing machines                                                           $ 25.00
Each additional machine over ten                                                     3.00
Each dryer unit                                                                      3.00
Welding shop:                                                                        35.00
Each employee                                                                        5.00
 
(Ord. 237, passed 11-13-95; Am. Ord. 364, passed 11-15-04; Am. Ord. 558, passed
9-16-24)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
      Any person, firm or corporation doing business in the city without
payment of the city occupation tax and without having been issued a license to
transact its business shall upon conviction in the city court be deemed guilty
of a misdemeanor and shall be fined in a sum of not less than $5 and not more
than $500 and each day of violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 237, passed 11-13-95)
CHAPTER 111: CABLE TELEVISION
Section
   
111.01   Agreement incorporated by reference
§ 111.01 AGREEMENT INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE.
   From time to time the city shall sign an agreement granting a franchise with
various providers to operate a cable television system. The agreements shall be
incorporated by reference in this chapter as if set out in full. A list of such
agreements can be found in this Code under Table of Special Ordinances, Table
III Franchises.
CHAPTER 112: FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
112.01   Adoption of regulations by reference
§ 112.01 ADOPTION OF REGULATIONS BY REFERENCE.
   The definitions; the inspection of food-service establishments; the
issuance, suspension and revocation of permits to operate food-service
establishments; the prohibiting of the sale of adulterated or misbranded food
or drink; and the enforcement of this chapter shall be regulated in accordance
with any applicable U.S. public health code and any applicable state health
code.
(Ord. 78, passed 10-14-74) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 113: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
   
113.01   Purpose and intent
   
113.02   Definitions
   
113.03   Classifications
   
113.04   Conditional use permit required
   
113.05   Location
   
113.06   Non-conforming uses
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate sexually oriented businesses
to promote the health, safety and general welfare of citizens of the city and
to establish reasonable and uniform regulations to prevent the concentration of
sexually oriented businesses within the city. The provisions of this chapter
have neither the purpose nor effect of imposing a limitation or restriction on
the content of any communicative materials, including sexually oriented
materials. Similarly, it is not the intent nor effect of this chapter to
restrict or deny access by adults to sexually oriented materials protected by
the First Amendment or to deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of
sexually oriented entertainment to their intended market, unless otherwise
restricted by law.
(Ord. 413, passed 8-18-08)
§ 113.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT ARCADE. Any place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein
coin-operated or slug-operated or electronically, electrically or mechanically
controlled image-producing devices are maintained to show images to five or
fewer viewers at one time and where the images so displayed are distinguished
or characterized by the depicting or describing of specified sexual activities
or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE or ADULT VIDEO STORES. A commercial establishment which, as
one of its principal business purposes, offers for sale or rental, for any form
of consideration, any one or more of the following:
      (1)   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes or video reproduction,
slides or other visual representations which depict or describe specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas; or
      (2)   Instruments, devices or paraphernalia which are designed for use in
connection with specified sexual activities.
   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, restaurant or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features:
      (1)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity;
      (2)   Live performances which are characterized by the exposing of
specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities; or
      (3)   Films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides or other
photographic reproductions which are characterized by the depiction of
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. Commercial establishment where, for any form
of consideration, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or similar
photographic reproductions are regularly shown which are characterized or
distinguished by an emphasis on matter depicting or relating to specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT THEATERS. A theater, concert hall, auditorium or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features persons who appear in a state of nudity
or live performances which are characterized by the exposure of specified
anatomical areas or specified sexual activities.
   CONDITIONAL USE.  A use which may be conditionally permitted in a zone,
subject to the provisions of §
154.047 of the city zoning code.
   NUDITY or STATE OF NUDITY.
      (1)   The appearance of bare human buttocks, anus, male genitals, female
genitals or female breast.
      (2)   A state of dress that fails to opaquely cover a human buttocks,
anus, male genitals, female genitals or areola of the female breast.
   PERSON. An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation, association
or other legal entity.
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT. Any land within the city limits zoned as R-1, R-2, or
R-MH and single family or multiple family residential use, as defined by the
city zoning ordinance.
   SEMI-NUDE. A state of dress in which clothing covers no more than the
genitals, pubic region and/or the female breast, as well as portions of the
body covered by supporting straps or devices.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. An adult arcade, adult bookstore or adult video
store, adult cabaret, adult motion picture theater or adult theater whose
inventory, merchandise or performances are characterized by a preponderance of
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks and female breast below a point immediately above the areola;
and
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernible turgid state even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.
      (1)   Human genitals in state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
      (2)   Act of human masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy; and
      (3)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks or female breast.
(Ord. 413, passed 8-18-08)
§ 113.03 CLASSIFICATIONS.
   Sexually oriented businesses are classified as follows:
   (A)   Adult arcade;
   (B)   Adult bookstore or adult video stores;
   (C)   Adult cabarets;
   (D)   Adult motion picture theaters; and
   (E)   Adult theaters.
(Ord. 413, passed 8-18-08)
§ 113.04 CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Sexually oriented businesses shall not be allowed in any zoning district
except commercial where they may be allowed as a conditional use pursuant to §
154.047 of the city zoning code. All sexually oriented businesses shall secure
a conditional use permit from the City Planning Commission in accordance with
the rules and regulations of said code prior to opening a business or being
issued an occupational license.
(Ord. 413, passed 8-18-08) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.05 LOCATION.
   (A)   A person commits an offense if that person operates or causes to be
operated a sexually oriented business within 660 feet of:
      (1)   A church, synagogue, mosque, temple or building which is used
primarily for religious worship and related religious activities;
      (2)   A public or private elementary school, middle school, secondary or
post-secondary school, pre-school, nursery school or child care facility
(school includes the school grounds);
      (3)   A neighborhood park or family residential center; or
      (4)   A hospital, medical clinic or nursing facility.
   (B)   A person commits an offense if that person causes or permits the
operation, establishment or maintenance of a sexually oriented business within
660 feet of a boundary of residential zone (R-1, R-2, R-MH), or any single
family or multiple family residential use.
   (C)   A person commits an offense if that person causes or permits the
operation, establishment or maintenance of a sexually oriented business within
660 feet of another sexually oriented business, or within 660 feet of any room,
building, premises, place or establishment that sells or dispenses any
alcoholic beverage, which means, but is not limited to, distilled spirits, wine
or beer.
   (D)   For the purposes of divisions (A), (B) and (C) of this section,
measurement shall be made in a straight line, without regard to intervening
structures or objects, for the nearest portion of the building or structure
used as part of the premises where a sexually oriented business is conducted,
to the nearest property line of the premises of a use listed in divisions (A),
(B) and (C) of this section. Presences of a city, county or other political
subdivision boundary shall be irrelevant for the purposes of calculating and
applying the distance requirements of this section.
(Ord. 413, passed 8-18-08) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.06 NON-CONFORMING USES.
   A sexually oriented business lawfully operating as a conforming use is not
rendered a non-conforming use by the subsequent location of a use defined in §
113.05(A), (B) or (C) within 660 feet of the property line of a sexually
oriented business. This provision applies only to an ongoing sexually oriented
business, not to a sexually oriented business that has been terminated for any
reason or discontinued for a period of 90 days or more subsequent to the
location of the use defined in §
113.05(A), (B) or (C).
(Ord. 413, passed 8-18-08) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any part of this chapter, upon conviction, is
punishable by a fine not to exceed $500.
   (B)   If the violation is, in its nature, continuous in respect to time, the
penalty for allowing the continuance thereof is a fine not exceed $250 for each
day that the same is unlawfully continued.
   (C)   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented
business in violation of §
113.04 will be subject to a suit for injunction as well as prosecution for
criminal violations.
(Ord. 413, passed 8-18-08)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST CITY REGULATIONS
      
131.   SMOKING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST CITY REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
130.01   Discharge of firearms
   
130.02   Littering
   
130.03   Hunting prohibited within the city limits
Curfew
   
130.15   Definitions
   
130.16   Curfew for juveniles
   
130.17   Exceptions
   
130.18   Parental responsibility
   
130.19   Enforcement procedure
 
   
130.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 130.01 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge firearms of any kind,
within the city limits.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge any type of a pellet, B-B, air rifle
or pistol, or any such weapon which is gas, air or spring operated, within the
city limits.
   (C)   This section shall not be construed to prohibit any officer of the law
from discharging a firearm in the performance of his duty, or any citizen from
discharging a firearm when lawfully defending himself or another.
   (D)   Individuals belonging to an organized educational group which
encourages and teaches the safe handling of firearms, will be permitted to
shoot projectile at a specific target in a controlled environment, provided
they are under parental supervision. The only type of air rifle allowed will be
a low power, spring-type air rifle in which the spring is compressed to the
same degree each time the gun is
cocked and the same amount of air power is available with each shot. Members of
such organized groups may have target practice within the city, providing the
target is in a safe location with the appropriate backstops and; site is
approved by the Police Department. A parental supervisor must be present at all
times where any firing or target practice is done.
(Ord. 219, passed 6-14-93) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 LITTERING.
   The throwing, placing or otherwise depositing any paper, cans, bottles or
other trash, refuse or garbage upon the streets, any other public property or
upon the property of any other person within the city limits is hereby
prohibited.
(Ord. 39, passed 12-16-69) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 HUNTING PROHIBITED WITHIN THE CITY LIMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to hunt within the corporate limits of the city,
except for the provisions of division (D).
     (B)   The firearm, archery equipment, or other hunting equipment,
apparatus, implement or aid, as well as any animal or game killed or secured,
in possession of the hunter when cited or arrested for a violation of division
(A) or (D), shall be seized by the law enforcement officer for use as evidence.
   (C)   A violation of this section shall be deemed a misdemeanor, and upon
conviction thereof, punishable by a fine of not less than $300 or more than
$500, and any firearm, hunting equipment, implement, apparatus (such as archery
equipment), or animal or game seized by the law enforcement officer pursuant to
division (B) shall be forfeited by the court as contraband.
   (D)   The hunting of a deer with a bow and arrow shall be allowed during
that period of time authorized by the Arkansas Game and Fish Commission for an
archery season, provided the hunter meets each of the three following
provisions:
      (1)   The individual wishing to hunt must adhere to all game and fish
rules and regulations.
      (2)   The hunter must get written permission of the landowner of the site
where they wish to hunt.
      (3)   The hunter must give the Police Department notice of his or her
intent to hunt and provide a mailing address and telephone number to be kept on
file with the department.
   (E)   The Mayor and the Chief of Police, each individually, shall have the
authority to suspend the hunting authorized under division (D) if they deem it
to be in the interests of public safety.
(Ord. 346, passed 11-17-03; Am. Ord. 399, passed 8-20-07)
CURFEW
§ 130.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   JUVENILE OR MINOR. Any person under the age of 18 or, in equivalence
phrasing often herein employed, any person 17 years of age or less.
   NORMAL SCHOOL HOURS. All the time between the hours of 8:30 a.m. and 3:30
p.m. Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday.
   PARENT. Any person having custody of a juvenile as a natural or adoptive
parent, as a legal guardian, as a person who stands in loco parentis, as a
person to whom legal custody has been given by order of a court of competent
jurisdiction.
   REMAIN. To stay behind, to tarry and to stay unnecessarily upon the streets,
including the congregating of groups (or of interacting minors) totalling three
or more persons in which any juvenile involved would not be using the streets
for ordinary or serious purposes such as mere passage or going home.
   STREET. A way or place, of whatever nature, open to the use of the public as
a matter of right for purposes of vehicular travel or in the case of a sidewalk
thereof for pedestrian travel. The term street includes that legal right-of-
way, including but not limited to traffic lanes, the curb, the sidewalks
whether paved or unpaved, and any grass plots or other grounds found within the
legal right-of-way of a street. The term street applies irrespective of what it
is called or formally named, whether alley, avenue, court, road or otherwise.
The term STREET shall also include shopping centers, parking lots, parks,
playgrounds, public buildings, the common areas of public housing developments,
and similar areas that are open to the use of the public.
   TIME OF NIGHT. As referred to herein is based upon the prevailing standard
of times, whether Central Standard Time or Central Daylight Savings Time,
generally observed at that hour by the public in the city, prima facie the time
then observed in the city police station.
   YEARS OF AGE. Continues from the birthday, such as the seventeenth to (but
not including the day of) the next, such as the eighteenth birthday, making it
clear that seventeen or less years of age be treated as equivalent to the
phrase “under 18 years of age.”
(Ord. 206, passed 11-9-92; Am. Ord. 354, passed 4-19-04)
§ 130.16 CURFEW FOR JUVENILES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person 17 or less years of age (under 18) to be
or remain in or upon the streets within the city at night during the period
ending at 5:00 a.m. and beginning:
   (A)   At 12:30 a.m. on Friday and Saturday nights,
   (B)   11:00 p.m. on all other nights; and
   (C)   During normal school hours.
(Ord. 206, passed 11-9-92; Am. Ord. 354, passed 4-19-04) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.17 EXCEPTIONS.
   In the following exceptional cases, a minor on a city street during the
nocturnal hours prescribed for minors shall not, however, be considered in
violation of the curfew ordinance.
   (A)   When accompanied by a parent of such minor.
   (B)   When accompanied by an adult, at least 21 years of age, who is not the
parent and who is authorized by a parent of such minor to take said parent's
place in accompanying said minor for a designated period of time and purpose
within the specified area.
   (C)   When exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as free exercise of religion, freedom of speech and the
right of such exercise by a written communication, signed by the juvenile and
countersigned, by a parent of the juvenile with their home address and
telephone number, specifying when, where and in what manner the juvenile will
be on the streets at night (during hours when the curfew ordinance is otherwise
applicable to said minor) in the exercise of a First Amendment right.
   (D)   In case of reasonable necessity for a juvenile remaining on the
streets, but only after the juvenile's parent has communicated to the person
designated by the Chief of Police to receive such notifications the facts
establishing the reasonable necessity relating to specified streets at a
designated time for a described purpose including points of origin and
destination. A copy of the communication, or of the police record thereof, duly
certified by the Chief of Police to be correct, with an appropriate notation of
the time it was received and of the names and addresses of the parent and
juvenile, shall be admissible evidence.
   (E)   When returning home from within one hour after the termination of a
school or city sponsored activity, or an activity of a religious or other
voluntary association, of which prior notice, indicating the place and probable
time of termination, has been given in writing, to and duly filed for immediate
reference by, the person designated by the Chief of Police.
   (F)   When engaging in the duties of bona fide employment or traveling
directly, without undue delay or detour from home to the place of employment,
or from the place of employment to the home.
   (G)   When the minor is in a motor vehicle for the purpose of interstate
travel, either through, beginning or ending in the city.
   (H)   It shall be an affirmative defense that the school which the juvenile
attends is not in session; the juvenile is a high school graduate or has an
equivalent certificate; or has an official excused absence from the school. A
suspension or expulsion shall not be an affirmative defense to this subchapter.
(Ord. 206, passed 11-9-92; Am. Ord. 345, passed 4-19-04)
§ 130.18 PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a parent of a juvenile to permit or allow the
juvenile to be or remain upon any city street under circumstances not
constituting an exception to, or otherwise beyond the scope of, the curfew
ordinance. This subchapter is intended to hold neglectful or careless parents
to a reasonable community standard of parental responsibility through an
objective test. It shall be no defense that a parent was indifferent to the
activities or conduct or whereabouts of such juvenile.
   (B)   Police procedures shall be refined in light of experience and may
provide that the police officer may deliver to a parent or guardian thereof a
juvenile under appropriate circumstances.
   (C)   When a parent or guardian has come to take charge of the juvenile, and
the appropriate information has been recorded, the juvenile shall be released
to the custody of such parent. If the parent cannot be located or fails to take
charge of the juvenile, then the juvenile shall be released in accordance with
Arkansas and Federal law.
   (D)   In the case of a first violation by a juvenile, the Police Department
shall by certified mail or direct service, send and/or deliver to a parent
written notice of the violation with a warning that any subsequent violation
will result in full enforcement of the curfew ordinance, including enforcement
of parental responsibility and of applicable penalties.
(Ord. 206, passed 11-9-92)
§ 130.19 ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   If a police officer reasonably believes that juvenile is on the
streets in violation of this curfew ordinance, the officer shall notify the
juvenile that he or she is in violation of the ordinance and shall require the
juvenile to provide his or her name, address, and telephone number and how to
contact his or her parent or guardian.
   (B)   In determining the age of the juvenile and in the absence of
convincing evidence, a police officer shall use his or her best judgement in
determining age.
(Ord. 206, passed 11-9-92)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   In the case of any violation of §
130.01 by a minor child, the parent(s), legal guardian or other person(s)
having actual control and custody of such minor child shall be charged and
liable as a principle with the violation hereof. Any person violating the
provisions of §
130.01 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine
of not less than $25 nor more than $100 for each and every offense, and each
time said firearms or air guns, B-B guns etc., are discharged shall constitute
a separate offense. (Ord. 219, passed 6-14-93)
   (B)   Any person or persons violating the provisions of §
130.02 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof be fined in
any sum not less than $1 and not more than $100. (Ord. 39, passed 12-16-69)
   (C)   If, after the warning notice pursuant to §
130.18 of a first violation by a juvenile, a parent violates §
130.18 (in connection with a second violation by the juvenile), this shall be
treated as a first
offense by the parent. For parental offenses, a parent may be fined not less
that $50, nor more than $500. Any juvenile who shall violate any of the
provisions of the curfew ordinance (§§ 130.15 through 130.19) more than three
times shall be reported by the Chief of Police to the juvenile authorities as a
juvenile in need of supervision, and the Chief of Police shall refer the matter
to the Jefferson County Prosecuting Attorney and/or the Arkansas Department of
Human Services and/or other appropriate authorities. (Ord. 206, passed 11-9-92)
CHAPTER 131: SMOKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
131.01   Smoking prohibited in city buildings
   
131.02   Signs in buildings
   
131.03   Designated areas
   
131.04   Rules
   
131.05   Exclusions
   
131.06   Fine
   
131.07   Smoking in White Hall City Hall, James “Jitters” Morgan Community
Center, Crenshaw Springs Water Park, City Hall and White Hall City Park
   
131.08   Definitions
   
131.09   Smoking prohibited
   
131.10   Posting of signs
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 SMOKING PROHIBITED IN CITY BUILDINGS.
   Smoking of cigarettes, pipes, or cigars is hereby prohibited within any
building occupied by the city or any of its political subdivisions or
department, except in areas so designated by the Mayor or department head.
(Ord. 474, passed 8-18-14)
§ 131.02 SIGNS IN BUILDINGS.
   The city shall place conspicuous signs in all buildings occupied by the city
or used for city purposes indicating that the buildings are no smoking areas.
(Ord. 474, passed 8-18-14)
§ 131.03 DESIGNATED AREAS.
   The Mayor or department heads may designate areas where the smoking of
cigarettes, cigars and pipes may be allowed for city workers for the general
public. Such areas on or in city properties will be clearly defined and
designated by the Mayor or department head.
(Ord. 474, passed 8-18-14)
§ 131.04 RULES.
   The Mayor or department head may prepare rules and regulations for the act
of smoking in these areas which may be applied to both city employees and the
general public.
(Ord. 474, passed 8-18-14)
§ 131.05 EXCLUSIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to any building owned by the city which is
leased, rented or otherwise devised to another person or entity.
(Ord. 474, passed 8-18-14)
§ 131.06 FINE.
   Violation of this chapter is a misdemeanor and is punishable by a fine not
to exceed $100 plus court costs.
(Ord. 474, passed 8-18-14)
§ 131.07 SMOKING IN WHITE HALL CITY HALL, JAMES "JITTERS" MORGAN COMMUNITY
CENTER, CRENSHAW SPRINGS WATER PARK AND WHITE HALL CITY PARK.
   The purpose of this chapter is to protect the public health, safety and
welfare through the prohibition and regulation of smoking in public access
areas of White Hall City Hall, Crenshaw Springs Water Park, James “Jitters”
Morgan Community Center and White Hall City Park within the city.
(Ord. 474, passed 8-18-14)
§ 131.08 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply:
   BUILDING. The building owned or operated by the city, its agents, entities,
employees, lessees, and/or subdivisions.
   CITY. The City of White Hall, Arkansas.
   CRENSHAW SPRINGS WATER PARK. Any area enclosed by the fence surrounding the
park and the parking lot adjacent to the park.
   ENCLOSED AREA. Any indoor area(s) or room(s) used by or accessible to the
general public in the James "Jitters" Morgan Community Center, Crenshaw Springs
Water Park, City Hall, or City Park within the city.
   PUBLIC ACCESS AREA. Any enclosed area within the James "Jitters" Morgan
Community Center used by or accessible to the general public.
   SMOKE (OR SMOKING). The lighting of any cigarette, cigar, pipe tobacco, or
other like material, or the possession of any lighted cigarette, cigar, pipe,
tobacco, or other like material, regardless of its compositions.
   WHITE HALL CITY PARK. Any areas within the park of the city including but
not limited to the ball fields.
(Ord. 474, passed 8-18-14)
§ 131.09 SMOKING PROHIBITED.
   Smoking is prohibited and shall be unlawful in public access areas of the
James "Jitters" Morgan Community Center, Crenshaw Springs Water Park, City Hall
and White Hall City Park.
(Ord. 474, passed 8-18-14)
§ 131.10 POSTING OF SIGNS.
   Recognizing that a majority of the public will voluntarily comply with
posted no-smoking regulations, provided that the signs are clearly posted and
reasonable, the city, its agents, entities, employees, and lessees shall
provide and comply with the following provisions:
   (A)   Signs which designate non-smoking areas in the James "Jitters" Morgan
Community Center, Crenshaw Springs Water Park, City Hall, and White Hall City
Park shall be clearly, sufficiently, and conspicuously posted in every
building, room or other area so covered by this chapter.
   (B)   The manner of such posting, including the wording, size, color,
design, and placement of posting, whether on the corridors, doors, stands,
tables, walls or elsewhere, shall be at the discretion of the city, its agents,
employees, lessees, subdivisions or other persons having control of such
building, room or other areas, as long as clarity, conspicuousness and
sufficiency are apparent in communicating the intent of this chapter.
   (C)   Signs shall conspicuously posted indicating "No smoking" or "No
smoking except in designated areas" with each sign being clearly visible either
upon entry of said buildings, room, or area.
(Ord. 474, passed 8-18-14)
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   Any individual violating the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not
less than $25 nor more than $500.
(Ord. 474, passed 8-18-14)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150. BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151. ELECTRICAL CODE
      
152. FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
153. SUBDIVISIONS
      
154. ZONING CODE
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Adoption of Standard Codes
   
150.01   Building Code
   
150.02   Plumbing Code
   
150.03   Mechanical Code
   
150.04   Rules and regulations for energy efficiency standards for new building
construction
   
150.05   Nuisance Abatement and Property Maintenance Code
   
150.06   Energy Code
   
150.07   Certificate of occupancy
Unsafe Buildings
   
150.15   Costs for and enforcement of liens
Building Numbering and Street Naming
   
150.30   Establishment of system
   
150.31   Base line; location of addresses, block and building numbering
   
150.32   Survey made by city
   
150.33   Distinctive numbers or names
   
150.34   Plat book, official map
   
150.35   Zoning Official to inform parties of numbering limits
   
150.36   Application to city for assignment of correct number
   
150.37   System of street naming
   
150.38   Subdivision plats to contain report of Planning Commission regarding
proposed streets
   
150.39   Authority of City Council to change names
Permit Fees
   
150.45   Building permit fees
   
150.46   Plumbing, electrical and HVAC fees
 
   
150.99   Penalty
ADOPTION OF STANDARD CODES
§ 150.01 BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   Adoption by reference. The Arkansas Fire Prevention Code, being
particularly the 2012 edition of which not less than three copies have been and
are now filed in the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer are hereby adopted and
incorporated as fully as set forth at length herein, and from the date on which
this subchapter shall take effect, the provisions therein shall be controlling
in the use, construction, repair, maintenance and occupancy of all dwellings,
dwelling units and/or structures within the area of jurisdiction of the city.
For the purpose of this section, the City Inspector, Code Enforcement Officer,
their assistants, or any individual assigned by the Mayor, shall be the
administrative authority authorized to enforce the provisions of this Code.
   (B)   Permit required.
      (1)   No construction, renovation or alteration shall be made in/or of
any building or structure without a written permit therefor being first
obtained from the city license issuing clerk by the person, firm, or
corporation having direct change of such installation.
      (2)   Any work stated prior to securing the required permit will result
in fine that is equivalent to double the normal permit fee.
      (3)   All permits will become invalid if work authorized has not
commenced within six months of permit issuance date, or if the work authorized
has been suspended or abandoned for a period of six months after work has
commenced. Before work can resume a new permit must be obtained. The permit fee
shall be ½ the amount of the original permit provided no changes have been
made. A new, full permit fee shall be required in cases of change of
contractors (sub-contractors are exempt). All permits are valid for a period of
one year (365 days) after which a new permit is required.
   (C)   Bond and license.
      (1)   No persons hall engage in any construction work (as defined by the
Arkansas Fire Prevention Code) until such person shall have secured a license
as hereinafter provided and shall have executed and delivered to the city a
good and sufficient bond in the penal sum of $5,000, with corporate surety,
conditioned for the faithful performance of all such work, to indemnify the
city or any citizen for any damage caused by the failure of such person, firm,
or corporation doing the work entered upon or contracted for, in strict
accordance and compliance with the provisions of this section. Annual renewal
of the bond is required.
      (2)   Upon approval of said bond, the person desiring to do such work
shall secure from the City Clerk-Treasurer a non-transferable occupational
license which shall run until the first day of January next succeeding its
issuance, unless sooner revoked. The person obtaining a license shall pay an
annual license fee to the City Clerk-Treasurer, provided however, that any
license obtained after the first day of July of any year shall be computed at
the rate of ½ of the annual fee. Occupational licenses from other cities will
be accepted with a reduced fee of $25.
   (D)   License to individual. A permit may be issued to a property owner to
do work in his own home provided he has a current contractor’s license with the
state or can submit sufficient proof that he possesses the knowledge and
experience to such a degree that he is capable of constructing or repairing his
own home according to the Arkansas Fire Prevention Code, and can show proof
that he owns the home, is presently residing, or will reside in the structure
after completion. Prior to the issuing of a permit the applicant must submit
plans and specifications to the City Inspector and City Zoning Director for
approval and complete an application.
   (E)   Inspections.
      (1)   Right of entry. City Inspectors are authorized to enter structures
or premises at reasonable times to inspect subject to constitutional
restrictions on unreasonable searches and seizures. If entry is refused or not
obtained, the officers may pursue such search authorizations as are provided by
law.
      (2)   Inspections. City Inspectors shall make all of the inspections
required by this Code. All reports of such inspections shall be documented and
be certified by the responsible officer. Code Enforcement Officers are
authorized to rely upon a responsible expert opinion as the officer deems
necessary to report upon unusual technical issues that arise.
      (3)   Required testing. Whenever there is insufficient evidence of
compliance with the provisions of this Code, or evidence that a material or
method does not conform to the requirements of this Code, or in order to
substantiate claims for alternative materials or methods, the City Inspector
shall have the authority to require tests to be made as evidence of compliance
at no expense to the jurisdiction. Reports of tests shall be recorded an
entered in the department files.
      (4)   Material and equipment reuse. Materials, equipment and devices
shall not be reused unless a City Inspector finds that such elements are in
good repair or have been reconditioned and tested when necessary, placed in
good and proper working condition and approved.
      (5)   Phased inspections.
         (a)   Footing/foundation inspection.
         (b)   Rough-in inspection.
         (c)   Final inspection.
   (F)   Standards. All construction, and all materials within the city shall
conform to the rules and requirements of the Arkansas Fire Prevention Code
current when work is performed or equipment and apparatus installed, however,
the necessity, good service and said results often require more than the
minimum which is specified in the Code. Therefore, the Inspector supervising
the enforcement of this Code will have the responsibility and authority for
making interpretations of the rules, for deciding upon the approval of
equipment, materials, construction, and for granting the special permission
contemplated in a number of the rules and the Inspector, where necessary, shall
follow the code procedure for securing official interpretations of the Code.
   (G)   Demolition permit.
      (1)   Who may apply. Licensed wrecking contractor, or owner of land
(owner of house, where house has been auctioned) where structure is not more
than three stories high and has a floor area of less than 3,000 square feet.
Where the structure exceeds three stories in height or 3,000 square feet, a
permit will require a surety bond in an amount calculated by the city to
indemnify the city or any citizen for any damage caused by the failure of such
person, firm, or corporation doing the work entered upon or contracted for, in
strict accordance and compliance with the provisions of this section.
      (2)   No person shall engage in any demolition work (as defined by the
Arkansas Fire Prevention Code) where a structure is no more than three stories
in height or 3,000 square feet, until such person shall have secured a license
as hereinafter provided, have liability insurance required by state, and shall
have executed and delivered to the city a good and sufficient bond in the penal
sum of $5,000, with corporate surety, conditioned for the faithful performance
of all such work, to indemnify the city or any citizen for any damage caused by
the failure of such person, firm, or corporation during the work entered upon
or contracted for, in strict accordance and compliance with the provisions of
this section. Annual renewal of the bond is required.
      (3)   Upon approval of said bond, the person desiring to do such work
shall secure from the City Clerk-Treasurer a non-transferable occupational
license which shall run until the first day of January next succeeding its
issuance, unless sooner revoked. The person obtaining a license shall pay an
annual license fee to the City Clerk-Treasurer, provided however, that any
license obtained after the first day of July of any year shall be computed at
the rate of ½ the annual fee. Occupational licenses from other cities will be
accepted with a reduced fee of $25.
      (4)   Information to be furnished on the demolition permit.
         (a)   Address and legal description.
         (b)   Dimension and number of stories to compute bond.
         (c)   No demolition permit will be issued until the applicant has
furnished a certificate from the Sewer Department attesting to the fact that he
has met their requirements regarding the closing of the sewer line and all
other service utilities have been discontinued and completely disconnected in
accordance with the rules and requirements of the city.
         (d)   Construction documents and a schedule for demolition must be
submitted when required by the City Inspector. Where such information is
required, no work shall be done until such construction documents or schedule,
or both, are approved.
      (5)   Safety precautions.
         (a)   The work of demolishing any building shall not be commenced
until pedestrian protection is in place as required by the City Inspector.
         (b)   A party wall balcony or horizontal exit shall not be destroyed
unless and until a substitute means of egress has been provided and approved.
         (c)   Hot cutting by oxygen-acetylene or arc torches shall be
permitted only in areas made fire safe by having a ten pound capacity dry
chemical extinguisher within ten feet of the cutting operation. The cutting
torch operator shall be responsible for watching for fires and shall examine
all cutting operations 30 minutes after cutting ceased. A connected hose stream
shall be available to the cutting operation as required by the City Inspector
and/or Fire Department.
         (d)   A charged hose stream shall be provided during all wrecking
operations requiring a safety inspection. See division (G)(6)(b).
         (e)   Where a sprinkler system exists, it shall be kept in operation
on the floors below the point of demolition.
         (f)   Special precautions shall be taken where combustible materials
are in the path of flying sparks.
         (g)   The burning of combustible rubbish is prohibited without written
permission from the Fire Department.
         (h)   Free standing walls, columns, or chimneys shall not be left
overnight.
      (6)   Inspections.
         (a)   On all demolition jobs a final inspection will be made to assure
that:
            1.   All walls shall have been removed to ground level.
            2.   Where a structure has been demolished or removed, the vacant
lot shall be filled and maintained to the existing grade or in accordance with
the ordinances of the city. Provisions shall be made to prevent the
accumulation of water or damage to any foundations on the premises or the
adjoining property.
            3.   No damage shall have been done to public sidewalks, curbs,
gutters, streets, storm sewers, or other city property.
         (b)   On all demolition jobs over 3,000 square feet or over three
stories in height a safety inspection shall be made to assure that:
            1.   The requirements of this chapter concerning barricades,
walkways and proper use of public property shall have been met.
            2.   The safety precautions outlined in division (G)(5) above shall
have been met to the satisfaction of the City Inspector and Fire Department.
      (7)   Completion date.
         (a)   Sixty days shall be allowed for the demolition of buildings with
less than 3,000 square feet and three stories or less in height. A 30-day
extension shall be granted upon written request by the applicant to the
Inspection Department.
         (b)   Ninety days shall be allowed for the demolition of buildings
having an area of 3,000 square feet to 10,000 square feet with the same
extension of time as allowed in division (G)(7)(a) above.
         (c)   On buildings over 10,000 square feet, the completion date shall
be set by the wrecking contractor. The same extension of time shall be allowed
as in division (G)(7)(a) above.
         (d)   If the licensed wrecking contractor has not completed the
demolition work and properly cleared the lot within the allotted time, the
Inspection Department shall request that the City Attorney:
            1.   Require forfeiture of the cash bond;
            2.   Bring suit to require the bonding company to comply with the
requirements of this chapter; or
            3.   In the event that the cash bond or the surety bond will not
cover the cost of completing the demolition work as required by this chapter,
the building official, after ascertaining the costs, shall cause such building
or structure or portion thereof, to be moved and the lot cleared. Fees that may
be incurred by the city for the removal of buildings and clearing of the lot
shall be collected as provided by §
150.15(A) and (B).
         (e)   If the property owner has not completed the demolition work and
cleared the lot within the required period of time of the Inspection Department
shall cause such building to be demolished and the lot cleared. Fees that may
be incurred by the city for the removal of buildings and clearing of lots shall
be collected a provided by §
150.15(A) and (B).
   (H)   Violations. No person, firm, corporation or agent, shall violate a
provision of this section, or fail to comply therewith, or with any of the
requirements of the Code adopted hereby, nor shall any person erect, construct,
alter, demolish or move any structure, in violation of the Codes adopted by
this section.
   (I)   Revocation. The City Inspector is authorized, in writing, suspend or
revoke a permit issued under the provision of this Code wherever the permit is
issued in error, or the basis of incorrect information supplied, or whether it
is determined that the building or structure or portion thereof is in violation
of any ordinance or regulation or any provision of this Code.
(Ord. 31, passed 7-23-68; Am. Ord. 90, passed 11-10-75; Am. Ord. 461, passed 1-
21-14) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02 PLUMBING CODE.
   (A)   Adoption. Arkansas Plumbing Code, being particularly the 2010 edition
as amended, is incorporated by the city as of the date on which this section
shall take effect. The aforementioned Code shall be controlling in the use,
construction, repair, maintenance, and occupancy of any dwelling units and/or
structures within the area of jurisdiction of the aforementioned city, except
that this section shall not apply to the use, repair, maintenance, and
occupancy of any dwelling units and/or structures within the area of
jurisdiction of the city in existence at the time this section shall take
effect of which not less than three copies have been and are now filed in the
office of the City Clerk-Treasurer are hereby adopted and incorporated as fully
as set forth at length herein, and from the date on which this section shall
take effect, the provisions therein shall he controlling in the use,
construction, repair, maintenance and occupancy of all dwellings, dwelling
units and or structures within the area of jurisdiction of the city. For the
purpose of this section, the City Inspector, Code Enforcement Officer, their
assistants, or any individual assigned by the Mayor, shall be the
administrative authority authorized to enforce the provisions of this Code.
   (B)   Permit required.
      (1)   No installation, alteration, repair or removal shall be made in/or
of the plumbing of any building or structure, nor alterations made thereto
without a written permit therefor being first obtained from the city license
issuing clerk by the person, firm, or corporation having direct charge of such
installation.
      (2)   Any work started prior to securing the required permit will result
in fine that is equivalent to double the normal permit fee.
      (3)   All permits will become invalid if work authorized has not
commenced within six months of permit issuance date, or if the work authorized
has been suspended or abandoned for a period of six months after work has
commenced. Before work can resume a new permit must be obtained. The permit fee
shall be ½ the amount of the original permit provided no changes have been
made. A new, full permit fee shall be required in cases of change of
contractors (sub-contractors are exempt). All permits are valid for a period of
one year (365 days) after which a new permit is required.
   (C)   Bond and license.
      (1)   No person shall engage in any plumbing work (as defined by the
Arkansas Plumbing Code) until such person shall have secured a license as
hereinafter provided and shall have executed and delivered to the city a good
and sufficient bond in the penal sum of $5,000, with corporate surety,
conditioned for the faithful performance of all such work, to indemnify the
city or any citizen for any damage caused by the failure of such person, firm,
or corporation doing the plumbing work entered upon or contracted for, in
strict accordance and compliance with the provisions of this section. Annual
renewal of the bond is required.
      (2)   Upon approval of said bond, the person desiring to do such work
shall secure from the City Clerk-Treasurer a non-transferable occupational
license which shall run until the first day of January next succeeding its
issuance, unless sooner revoked. The person obtaining a license shall pay an
annual license fee to the City Clerk-Treasurer, provided, however, that any
license obtained after the first day of July of any year shall be computed at
the rate of ½ of the annual fee. Occupational licenses from other cities will
be accepted with a reduced fee of $25.
   (D)   License to individual. A permit may be issued to a property owner to
do work in his own home provided he has a current plumbing license with the
state or can submit sufficient proof that he possesses the knowledge and
experience to such a degree that he is capable of plumbing his own home
according to the Arkansas Plumbing and Fuel Gas Codes, and can show proof that
he owns the home, is presently residing, or will reside in the structure after
completion. Prior to the issuing of a permit the applicant must submit plans
and specifications to the City Inspector for approval and complete an
application.
   (E)   Inspections.
      (1)   Right of entry. City Inspectors are authorized to enter structures
or premises at reasonable times to inspect subject to constitutional
restrictions on unreasonable searches and seizures. If entry is refused or not
obtained, the officers may pursue such search authorizations as are provided by
law.
      (2)   Inspections. City Inspectors shall make all of the inspections
required by this Code. All reports of such inspections shall be documented and
be certified by the responsible officer. Code Enforcement Officers are
authorized to rely upon a responsible expert opinion as the officer deems
necessary to report upon unusual technical issues that arise.
      (3)   Required testing. Whenever there is insufficient evidence of
compliance with the provisions of this code, or evidence that a material or
method, does not conform to the requirements of this Code, or in order to
substantiate claims for alternative materials or methods, the City Inspector
shall have the authority to require tests to be made as evidence of compliance
at no expense to the jurisdiction. Reports of tests shall he recorded and
entered in the department files.
      (4)   Material and equipment reuse. Materials, equipment and devices
shall not be reused unless a City Inspector finds that such elements are in
good repair or have been reconditioned and tested when necessary, placed in
good and proper working condition and approved.
      (5)   Phased, inspections.
         (a)   Rough-in inspection.
         (b)   Top-out inspection.
         (c)   Final inspection.
   (F)   Standards. All plumbing and all materials within the city shall
conform to the rules and requirements of the Arkansas Plumbing and Fuel Gas
Codes current when work is performed or equipment and apparatus installed,
however, the necessity, good service and said results often require more than
the minimum which is specified in the Code. Therefore, the Inspector
supervising the enforcement of this Code will have the responsibility and
authority for making interpretations of the rules, for deciding upon the
approval of equipment, materials, construction, and for granting the special
permission contemplated in a number of the rules and the Inspector, where
necessary, shall follow the code procedure for securing official
interpretations of the Code.
   (G)   Violations. No person, firm, corporation or agent, shall violate a
provision of this section, or fail to comply therewith, or with any of the
requirements of the Code adopted hereby, nor shall any person erect, construct,
alter, demolish or move any structure, in violation of the Code adopted by this
section.
   (H)   Revocation. The City Inspector is authorized to, in writing, suspend
or revoke a permit issued under the provision of this Code wherever the permit
is issued in error, or the basis of incorrect information supplied, or whether
it is determined that the building or structure or portion thereof is in
violation of any ordinance or regulation or any provision of this Code.
(Ord. 33, passed 8-27-68; Am. Ord. 98, passed 10-11-76; Am. Ord. 461, passed 1-
21-14) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.03 MECHANICAL CODE.
   (A)   Adoption. There is hereby adopted by the city the Arkansas Mechanical
Code being particularly the 2010 edition thereof, save and except such portions
as amended in division (B) below. These rules and regulations are adopted in an
attempt to ensure safe mechanical installations including alterations, repairs,
replacements, equipment, appliances, fixtures, fittings and appurtenances
thereto, so as to safeguard life, health and the public welfare. For the
purpose of this section, the City Inspector, Code Enforcement Officer, their
assistants, or any individual assigned by the Mayor, shall be the
administrative authority authorized to enforce the provisions of this Code. All
heat loss and gain design criteria shall comply with the Arkansas Energy Code.
Three copies of this Code have been and are now on file in the Office of the
City Clerk, and the same are adopted and incorporated, as amended, as if set
out at length herein. The provisions of the aforementioned Code shall be
controlling in the construction of all buildings and other structures within
the corporate city limits, except as regulated by other city ordinances.
Penalty, see §
150.99.
   (B)   Permit required.
      (1)   No installation, alteration, repair or removal shall be made in/or
of the Heating, Ventilation, or Air Conditioning (HVAC) of any building or
structure, nor alterations made thereto without a written permit therefor being
first obtained from the city license issuing clerk by the person, firm, or
corporation having direct charge of such installation.
      (2)   Any work started prior to securing the required permit will result
in fine that is equivalent to double the normal permit fee.
      (3)   All permits will become invalid if work authorized has not
commenced within six months of permit issuance date, or if the work authorized
has been suspended or abandoned for a period of six months after work has
commenced. Before work can resume a new permit must be obtained. The permit fee
shall be ½ the amount of the original permit provided no changes have been
made. A new, full permit fee shall be required in cases of change of
contractors (sub-contractors are exempt). All permits are valid for a period of
one year (365 days) after which a new permit is required.
   (C)   Bond and license.
      (1)   No person shall engage in any HVAC work (as defined by the Arkansas
Mechanical Code) until such person shall have secured a license as hereinafter
provided and shall have executed and delivered to the city a good and
sufficient bond in the penal sum of $5,000, with corporate surety, conditioned
for the faithful performance of all such work, to indemnify the city or any
citizen for any damage caused by the failure of such person, firm, or
corporation doing the HVAC work entered upon or contracted for, in strict
accordance and compliance with the provisions of this section. Annual renewal
of the bond is required.
      (2)   Upon approval of said bond, the person desiring to do such work
shall secure from the City Clerk-Treasurer a non-transferable occupational
license which shall run until the first day of January next succeeding its
issuance, unless sooner revoked. The person obtaining a license shall pay an
annual license fee to the City Clerk-Treasurer, provided, however, that any
license obtained after the first day of July of any year shall be computed at
the rate of ½ of the annual fee. Occupational licenses from other cities will
be accepted with a reduced fee of $25.
   (D)   License to individual. A permit may be issued to a property owner to
do work in his own home provided he has a current HVAC license with the state
or can submit sufficient proof that he possesses the knowledge and experience
to such a degree that he is capable of completing the HVAC his own home
according to the Arkansas Mechanical and Fuel Gas Codes, and can show proof
that he owns the home, is presently residing, or will reside in the structure
after completion. Prior to the issuing of a permit the applicant must submit
plans and specifications to the City Inspector for approval and complete an
application.
   (E)   Inspections.
      (1)   Right of entry. City Inspectors are authorized to enter structures
or premises at reasonable times to inspect subject to constitutional
restrictions on unreasonable searches and seizures. If entry is refused or not
obtained, the officers may pursue such search authorizations as are provided by
law.
      (2)   Inspections. City inspectors shall make all of the inspections
required by this Code. All reports of such inspections shall be documented and
be certified by the responsible officer. Code Enforcement Officers are
authorized to rely upon a responsible expert opinion as the officer deems
necessary to report upon unusual technical issues that arise.
      (3)   Required testing. Whenever there is insufficient evidence of
compliance with the provisions of this Code, or evidence that a material or
method does not conform to the requirements of this Code, or in order to
substantiate claims for alternative materials or methods, the City Inspector
shall have the authority to require tests to be made as evidence of compliance
at no expense to the jurisdiction. Reports of tests shall be recorded and
entered in the department files.
      (4)   Material and equipment reuse. Materials, equipment and devices
shall not be reused unless a City Inspector finds that such elements are in
good repair or have been reconditioned and tested when necessary, placed in
good and proper working condition and approved.
      (5)   Phased inspections.
         (a)   Rough-in inspection.
         (b)   Final inspection.
   (F)   Standards. All HVAC, and all materials within the city shall conform
to the rules and requirements of the current Arkansas Mechanical Code when work
is performed or equipment and apparatus installed, however, the necessity, good
service and said results often require more than the minimum which is specified
in the Code. Therefore, the Inspector supervising the enforcement of this Code
will have the responsibility and authority for making interpretations of the
rules, for deciding upon the approval of equipment, materials, construction,
and for granting the special permission contemplated in a number of the rules
and the Inspector, where necessary, shall follow the Code procedure for
securing official interpretations of the Code.
   (G)   Violations. No person, firm, corporation or agent, shall violate a
provision of this section, or fail to comply therewith, or with any of the
requirements of the code adopted hereby, nor shall any person erect, construct,
alter, demolish or move any structure, in violation of the Code adopted by this
section.
   (H)   Revocation. The City Inspector is authorized to, in writing, suspend
or revoke a permit issued under the provision of this Code wherever the permit
is issued in error, or the basis of incorrect information supplied, or whether
it is determined that the building or structure or portion thereof is in
violation of any ordinance or regulation or any provision of this Code.
(Ord. 107, passed 6-12-78; Am. Ord. 255, passed 7-21-97; Am. Ord. 461, passed
1-21-14) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.04 RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR ENERGY EFFICIENCY STANDARDS FOR NEW BUILDING
CONSTRUCTION.
   The City Council hereby finds that it is in the best interests of the
citizens to formally adopt the Arkansas Energy Code for New Building
Construction Supplements and Amendments.
(Ord. 125, passed 7-13-81; Am. Ord. 461, passed 1-21-14)
§ 150.05 NUISANCE ABATEMENT AND PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
   City of White Hall Nuisance Abatement and Property Maintenance Code, of
which not less than three copies have been and are now filed in the office of
the City Clerk-Treasurer and the same has been adopted and incorporated as
fully as if set forth at length herein, the provisions therein shall be
controlling in the use, maintenance and occupancy of all dwellings, dwelling
units and/or structures within the area of jurisdiction of the city.
(Ord. 461, passed 1-21-14)
§ 150.06 ENERGY CODE.
   There is hereby adopted by the City Council, for the purpose of establishing
rules and regulations for energy efficient standards for new building
construction, this code known as the Arkansas Energy Code for New Building
Construction Supplements and Amendments, particularly the 2011 Arkansas Energy
Code edition thereof and the whole thereof, save and except such portions as
are hereinafter deleted, modified, or amended, of which not less than three
copies have been and now are filed in the office of the City Clerk or City
Treasurer, and the same are hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set
out at length herein, and from the date on which this section shall take
effect, the provisions thereof shall be controlling in the construction of all
buildings and structures therein contained within the corporate limits of the
city.
(Ord. 425, passed 7-19-10; Am. Ord. 450, passed 12-17-12; Am. Ord. 461, passed
1-21-14)
§ 150.07 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Use and occupancy. No building or structure shall be used or occupied,
and no change in the existing occupancy classification of a building or
structure or portion thereof shall be made until the City Inspector has issued
a certificate of occupancy therefor as provided herein. Issuance of a
certificate of occupancy shall not be construed as an approval of a violation
of the provisions of this Code or of other ordinances of the city. Commercial
structures require an additional inspection by the Fire Department before a
certificate of occupancy will be issued.
   (B)   Certificate issued. After the required inspections are completed and
no violations of the provisions of this Code or other federal, state or city
laws that are enforced by the Inspection Department or Fire Department, the
Inspector shall issue a certificate of occupancy.
   (C)   Temporary occupancy. The City Inspector is authorized to issue a
temporary certificate of occupancy before the completion of the entire work
covered by the permit, provided that such portion or portions shall be occupied
safely. The City Inspector shall set a time period which the temporary
certificate of occupancy is valid.
   (D)   Revocation. The City Inspector is authorized to, in writing, suspend
or revoke a certificate of occupancy or completion issued under the provision
of this Code wherever the certificate of occupancy is issued in error, or the
basis of incorrect information supplied, or where it is determined that the
building or structure or portion thereof is in violation of any ordinance or
regulation or any provision of this Code.
(Ord. 461, passed 1-21-14)
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 150.15 COSTS FOR AND ENFORCEMENT OF LIENS.
   When costs are incurred by the city due to any damage caused by the failure
of such person, firm, or corporation doing the work entered upon or contracted
for, in strict accordance and compliance with the provisions of this section
shall be collected as follows:
   (A)   To secure the payment of the cost of removal or demolition of said
real estate there is hereby created a lien against the real estate in favor of
the city. If the structure is removed or demolished by the
enforcing official, he must sell the materials at a public sale. He shall
credit the proceeds of that sale against the cost of the removal or demolition.
   (B)   When such demolition or removal has been completed, the enforcing
official shall cause a statement to be filed with the Circuit Clerk of
Jefferson County, Arkansas, showing the cost and expense of such work and the
amount of money due and owing to the city, a brief description sufficient to
identify the property removed, and the name of the owner thereof. From the date
of filing, the amount shown by such statement to be due and owing to the city
together with 5% interest thereon from the date of completion of such work,
shall be a lien on said property. A suit may be instituted and recovery and
foreclosure of the lien for such amount and interest may be had in the name of
the city in any court having jurisdiction.
(Ord. 91, passed 11-10-75; Am. Ord. 461, passed 1-21-14)
BUILDING NUMBERING AND STREET NAMING
§ 150.30 ESTABLISHMENT OF SYSTEM.
   There is hereby established a uniform system for numbering the property
frontage on all streets, avenues, and public and private ways in the basing
system of the city. All houses and other buildings shall be numbered in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 187, passed 11-13-89)
§ 150.31 BASE LINE; LOCATION OF ADDRESSES, BLOCK AND BUILDING NUMBERING.
   (A)   Anderson Street shall constitute the base line for numbering buildings
along all streets heretofore called avenues running in a northerly and
southerly direction and Dollarway Road shall constitute the base line for
numbering buildings along all streets running in an easterly and westerly
direction.
      (1)   A street running in a northerly direction shall have an address
placed on the rural mail delivery box and/or building indicating its location
north of said base street.
      (2)   A street running in a southerly direction shall have an address
placed on the rural mail delivery box and/or building indicating its location
south of said base street.
      (3)   An avenue running in an easterly direction shall have an address
placed on the rural mail delivery box and/or building indicating its location
east of said base street.
      (4)   An avenue running in a westerly direction shall have an address
placed on the rural mail delivery box and/or building indicating its location
west of said base street.
      (5)   All buildings on diagonal streets shall be numbered the same as
buildings on northeasterly and southwesterly streets if the diagonal runs more
from the northeast to the southwest, and the same rule shall apply on
southeasterly and northwesterly streets if the diagonal runs more from the
southeast to the southwest. All buildings on diagonal streets having a
deviation of exactly 45 degrees, shall be numbered the same as buildings on
northeasterly and southwesterly streets.
   (B)   The numbering of buildings on each street shall be based on its block
number: The block numbering for each street shall have begun at the base line.
All numbers assigned to property and buildings shall be assigned on the basis
of one for each 25 feet of street frontage. Where a lot of record is in excess
of 25 feet of street frontage, with single building occupancy, the building
shall be the nearest number within the sequence of 25-foot segments.
   (C)   (1)   All buildings on the east side of each street shall have an odd
number. All buildings on the west side of each street shall have an even
number.
      (2)   Where any building has more than one entrance serving separate
occupants, a separate number shall be assigned to each entrance serving a
separate occupant, providing said building occupies a lot, parcel, or tract
having a frontage equal to 25 feet for each such entrance. If the building is
not located on a lot, parcel, or tract which would permit the assignment of one
number to each such entrance, numerals and letters shall be used, as set forth
in §
150.33.
   (D)   All buildings facing streets not extending through to the base line
shall be assigned the same relative block numbers derived from the block grid
system as if the said street had extended to the said base line.
(Ord. 187, passed 11-13-89)
§ 150.32 SURVEY MADE BY CITY.
   (A)   The city shall cause the necessary survey to be made and completed to
determine the address of property requiring the assignment of an address or
requiring a change of address under the terms of this subchapter. Thereafter,
there shall be assigned to each house and other residential, commercial,
industrial, or public building located on or gaining access to any street,
avenue, or public way in said basing system, its respective number under the
uniform system provided for in this subchapter according to said survey.
   (B)   When the said survey shall have been completed and each house or
building has been assigned or reassigned its respective number of numbers, the
city shall notify by letter:
      (1)   The owner, occupant, or agent of affected house or building;
      (2)   The U.S. Postal Service, the major utilities serving the address
area, and emergency services such as police and sheriff, fire departments and
ambulance service.
The city shall make a record of the date of the letter sent and the address to
which it was mailed.
   (C)   The owner, occupant, or agent of the affected house or building shall
place or cause to be placed upon each house or building, the number or numbers
assigned under the address system as provided in this subchapter.
   (D)   The numbers shall not be less than two inches high and in a color
contrasting to the building background. The numbers shall also be conspicuously
placed immediately above, on or at the side of the proper door of each building
so that the number can be seen plainly from the street on which the number is
based. Whenever any building is situated so that the number is not clearly
discernible from the street line or vision of the building from the street is
otherwise obscured, the number or numbers assigned shall be placed near the
walk, driveway or common entrance to such buildings, and affixed upon a gate
post, fence, mail box, post, or other appropriate place so as to be easily
discernible. Numbers painted or stenciled on the curb shall not be a lawful
substitute for the display of address numbers prescribed by this subchapter.
(Ord. 187, passed 11-13-89) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.33 DISTINCTIVE NUMBERS OR NAMES.
   (A)   Where only one number can be assigned to any house or building, who
shall desire distinctive numbers for the upper and lower portion of any house
or building, or for any part of any such house or building fronting on any
street; such owner, occupant, or agent shall be assigned the suffix (A), (B),
(C), etc., as may be required. Fractional numbers shall not be used as an
alternative to alphabetical designations.
   (B)   Distinctive names such as 1st Place, Plaza One, or the like, may be
used by owners to name business locations. However, businesses so named shall
also display the correct assigned address number or numbers in accord with this
subchapter.
(Ord. 187, passed 11-13-89) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.34 PLAT BOOK, OFFICIAL MAP.
   For the purpose of facilitating correct numbering, a plat book or official
map of all streets, avenues, and public ways within the city and county service
area showing the proper numbers of all houses or other buildings fronting upon
all streets, avenues, public or private ways shall be kept on file in City
Hall. These plats shall be open to inspection of all persons during the office
hours of the City Hall. Duplicate copies of such plats shall be furnished to
the Zoning Official, inspector and other appropriate city officials.
(Ord. 187, passed 11-13-89) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.35 ZONING OFFICIAL TO INFORM PARTIES OF NUMBERING LIMITS.
   It shall be the duty of the Zoning Official or his designee to inform any
party applying for address numbers therefor of the number or numbers belonging
to or embraced within the limits of any said lot or property as provided in
this subchapter.
(Ord. 187, passed 11-13-89)
§ 150.36 APPLICATION TO CITY FOR ASSIGNMENT OF CORRECT NUMBER.
   (A)   The owner or agent proposing to locate any house, building or
structure in need of an address in the city shall apply to the city for the
assignment of the correct number or numbers.
   (B)   In building permit issuing area, no building permit shall be issued
for structures in need of an address and no mail shall be delivered until the
owner or agent has been assigned the correct address. The applicant is
encouraged to post a temporary sign displaying the assigned address number at
the construction site until such time the permanent number can be displayed.
   (C)   The address must be known by the owner or agent before electrical
service is extended to the proposed building site.
   (D)   Final approval of any structure erected, repaired or altered for
occupancy after the effective date of this subchapter shall be withheld by the
city and no mail shall be delivered until permanent and proper numbers have
been affixed within 30 days to said structure or otherwise in accord with the
procedures of this subchapter.
(Ord. 187, passed 11-13-89)
§ 150.37 SYSTEM OF STREET NAMING.
   (A)   There is hereby established a uniform system of street naming in the
address service area of the city and all streets, avenues, and other public and
private ways shall be named in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter.
      (1)   A street or other public roadway running in the same direction and
having an angular deviation of not more than 90 degrees for a distance of not
more than 350 feet, shall carry the same name unless special circumstances make
such a plan impracticable or not feasible.
      (2)   Street names shall not be duplicated within the address service
area.
      (3)   That part of any street ending in a permanent “dead-end,” or cul-
de-sac, shall not carry the designation street, avenue, or road, but may carry
the designation place, cove, trail, etc.
      (4)   The City Council may adopt further designations or any additional
rules and regulations which may be required from time to time upon
recommendation of the Planning Commission by amending this section.
   (B)   For the purpose of clarifying and systematizing the present street
naming pattern in the address service area and to implement the application of
the matters set forth in division (A) above, there is hereby adopted the
following plan.
      (1)   The Planning Commission, coordinating with the Southeast Arkansas
Regional Planning Commission, is hereby authorized to prepare and present to
the City Council a recommendation for the naming of all unnamed streets,
avenues, and public and private ways within the address service area of the
city and to propose new names to eliminate duplications and sound alike street
names.
      (2)   Guidelines for renaming existing streets may be used as criteria
when considering the changing of a duplicate or sound-alike street name:
         (a)   Does one street have any historical reason for its name?
         (b)   Which street has the least number of structures on it and thus
would require the least number of address changes?
         (c)   Which street has had its name for the longest period of time?
         (d)   Is the name and thoroughfare designation suffix appropriate
according to other street names in the neighborhood?
         (e)   Which street name is used for the longest distance or the most
traveled section?
      (3)   Priorities can be established by numerically weighing the
importance of these items. Streets with the highest total number would be given
priority for name retention.
   (C)   Developers of property are encouraged to propose street names or plats
containing new streets under the guidelines of this subchapter. All such names
are subject to review by the Planning Commission for compliance with this
subchapter.
(Ord. 187, passed 11-13-89)
§ 150.38 SUBDIVISION PLATS TO CONTAIN REPORT OF PLANNING COMMISSION REGARDING
PROPOSED STREETS.
   Every subdivision plat submitted to the City Council for their approval
after the effective date of this subchapter shall bear upon its face, the
report of the Planning Commission of the proper names of any and all streets,
avenues, and public ways proposed for public use including private streets
within the jurisdiction of the city.
(Ord. 187, passed 11-13-89)
§ 150.39 AUTHORITY OF CITY COUNCIL TO CHANGE NAMES.
   The City Council by resolution may change, rename, or name an existing or
newly established street within the limits of said basing system at any time
after the adoption of this subchapter.
(Ord. 187, passed 11-13-89)
PERMIT FEES
§ 150.45 BUILDING PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   The following building permit fees are to be levied by the Inspection
Department of the city.
BUILDING VALUE PERMIT FEE
BUILDING VALUE       PERMIT FEE
$0 to $2,500         $25.00
$2,501 to $5,000     $50.00
$5,001 to $10,000    $100.00
$10,001 to $20,000   $175.00
$20,001 to $30,000   $250.00
$30,001 to $40,000   $300.00
$40,001 to $50,000   $350.00
$50,001 to $75,000   $400.00
$75,001 to $100,000  $450.00
$100.001 to $150,000 $500.00
$150,001 to $200,000 $550.00
$200,001 to $250,000 $600.00
A fee of $600 will apply for the first $250,000 plus $1.00 for each additional
thousand or fraction thereof.
                     
 
   (B)   Project valuation for new construction or additions.
      (1)   The project valuation is valued at up to $80 per square foot for
residential, $100 per square foot for commercial and $25 per square foot for
auxiliary buildings. This valuation will apply for all new construction or
existing buildings that are modified (remodeled).
      (2)   Example: 1,000 square feet residential X $80 = $80,000.
   $80,000 valuation = $450 permit fee.
   (C)   Project valuation for renovation, repair, re-roofing, re-siding and
alike. The project valuation must include all plumbing, electrical and HVAC
work and must also include the cost of all materials, supplies and labor costs
required to install or otherwise complete the work.
(Ord. 381, passed 2-21-06; Am. Ord. 461, passed 1-21-14; Am. Ord. 462, passed
2-18-14; Am. Ord. 464, passed 3-17-14)
§ 150.46 PLUMBING, ELECTRICAL AND HVAC FEES.
   The following fees are to be levied by the Inspection Department of the
city.
   (A)   Plumbing fees. Permit fees are based on the following fee schedule:
      (1)   The plumbing permit fee is based on the total project valuation and
§
150.45 fee schedule. The project valuation must include the cost of all
materials, supplies and labor costs required to install or otherwise complete
the plumbing work.
      (2)   Estimated cost may be reevaluated by the city and additional fees
may be required.
   (B)   Electricity fees. Permit fees are based on the following fee schedule:
      (1)   The electrical permit fee is based on the total project valuation
and §
150.45 fee schedule. The valuation must include the cost of all materials,
supplies and labor costs required to install or otherwise complete the
electrical work.
      (2)   Estimated cost may be reevaluated by the city and additional fees
may be required.
2014 S-19
   (C)   Heat, ventilation, air conditioning (HVAC) fees. Permit fees are based
on the following fee schedule:
      (1)   The HVAC permit fee is based on the total project valuation and §
150.45 fee schedule. The valuation must include the cost of all materials,
supplies and labor costs required to install or otherwise complete the HVAC
work.
      (2)   Estimated cost may be reevaluated by the city and additional fees
may be required.
(Ord. 382, passed 2-21-06; Am. Ord. 461, passed 1-21-14; Am. Ord. 464, passed
3-17-14; Am. Ord. 466, passed 4-21-14)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is otherwise provided shall be subject to the penalties provided in §
10.99.
   (B)   Whoever violates any provision of §
150.02 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Each such person shall be deemed
guilty of a separate offense for each and every day or portion thereof during
which any violation of any of the provisions of this code is committed, or
continued and upon conviction of any such violation such person shall be
punished within the limits and as provided by state laws. (Ord. 33, passed 8-
27-68)
   (C)   Whoever violates any provision of §
150.03 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Violation of the Mechanical Code as
adopted shall be punishable by a fine up to $250. Each day that said violation
continues shall be a separate offense and each day subsequent to the first day
of the violation shall be punishable by a fine of up to $250 per day. (Ord.
255, passed 7-21-97)
CHAPTER 151: ELECTRICAL CODE
Section
   
151.01   Adoption of National Electrical Code
   
151.02   Electrical Inspector
   
151.03   Permit required
   
151.04   Inspections
   
151.05   Standards
   
151.06   Licensing of electricians
   
151.07   Bond required
   
151.08   License and bond prerequisite to permit
   
151.09   Failure to comply
   
151.10   License to individual
   
151.11   Violations
   
151.12   Revocation
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 ADOPTION OF NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE.
   There is hereby adopted for the city for the purpose of establishing rules
and regulations for the construction, alteration, removal, and maintenance of
electric wiring and apparatus, including permits and penalties that certain
electric code known as the National Electric Code of the National Fire
Protection Association, being the current edition with all future amendments
and revisions, of which not less than three copies have been and now are filed
in the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer and the same are hereby adopted and
incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein, and from the date on
which this chapter shall take effect, the provisions thereof shall be
controlling in the construction, alteration, maintenance or removal of all
electric wiring and apparatus within the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. 40, passed 4-28-70; Am. Ord. 58, passed 5-23-72)
§ 151.02 ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR.
   There is hereby created the office of Electrical Inspector who shall be
appointed by the Mayor and approved by a majority of the City Council. The
Electrical Inspector shall be of good moral character,
shall have served four years in the trade and shall be versed in the approved
methods of electrical construction for safety of life and property and the
National Electrical Code.
   (A)   The Electrical Inspector, who for the purpose of this chapter shall be
known as the Electrical Inspector, and hereinafter referred to as such, shall
have the duty and is hereby authorized, empowered,
and directed to regulate and determine the placing of electric wires or other
appliances for electric lights,
heat or power in the city, and to cause all such wires, appliances, or
apparatus to be placed, constructed, and guarded as not to cause fires or
accidents, endangering life or property, and to be constructed as to keep to a
minimum the loss or waste of electric current.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Electrical Inspector to enforce all
provisions of this chapter and he is hereby granted the authority to enter all
buildings in the city in the performance of his duties at any reasonable hour.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Electrical Inspector to inspect and/or
test all electrical work and equipment of apparatus for compliance with the
code whenever electric wiring, appliances or apparatus shall be defective or
hazardous through improper manufacture of improper or insufficient insulation
or for any other reason, he shall at once cause the removal of such defect or
defects, at the expense of the owners of such wiring, appliance or apparatus.
(Ord. 40, passed 4-28-70)
§ 151.03 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No installation, alteration, or removal shall be made in/or of the
wiring of any building or structure for light, heat or power or to increase the
load of energy carried by such wires or equipment, nor shall any building or
structure be wired for electric lights, appliances, motors, apparatus, or
heating devices nor alterations made thereto without a written permit therefor
being first obtained from the city license issuing clerk by the person, firm,
or corporation having direct charge of such installation.
   (B)   Any work started prior to securing the required permit will result in
fine that is equivalent to double the normal permit fee.
   (C)   All permits will become invalid if work authorized has not commenced
within six months of permit issuance date, or if the work authorized has been
suspended or abandoned for a period of six months after work has commenced.
Before work can resume a new permit must be obtained. The permit fee shall be ½
the amount of the original permit provided no changes have been made. A new,
full permit fee shall be required in cases of change of contractors (sub-
contractors are exempt). All permits are valid for a period of one year (365
days) after which a new permit is required.
(Ord. 40, passed 4-28-70; Am. Ord. 461, passed 1-21-14) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.04 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   First inspection. A rough in inspection at that stage of the work as
designated by the Electrical Inspector.
   (B)   Final inspection. Upon the completion of the wiring, installation or
alteration of any building or structure for light, heat, power, appliance, or
apparatus, it shall be the duty of the person, firm or corporation having
direct charge of such to notify the Electrical Inspector who shall, as early as
possible, inspect such wiring, installation, appliance, and apparatus and if
installed, altered and constructed in compliance with the permit and in
accordance with the requirements of this chapter, he shall execute a
certificate of satisfactory inspection, which shall contain the date of such
inspection and the result of his examination, but no such certificate shall be
issued unless such electric wiring, motors, heating devices, appliances, and
apparatus be in strict accord with the rules and requirements and the spirit of
this chapter, nor shall current be turned on such installation, equipment,
appliance, motors, heating device, and apparatus until said certificate be
issued; the amount of fee or charge to be made for such inspections and
certificate to be fixed and determined by the City Council.
(Ord. 40, passed 4-28-70) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.05 STANDARDS.
   All electrical construction, all materials, appliances, motors, heating
devices, and apparatus used in connection with electrical work and the
operation of all electrical apparatus within the city shall conform to the
rules and requirements of the National Electrical Code current when work is
performed or equipment and apparatus installed, however, the necessity, good
service and said results often require larger sizes of wire, more branch
circuits, and better types of equipment than the minimum which is specified in
the National Electric Code. Therefore, the Electrical Inspector supervising the
enforcement of this code will have the responsibility and authority for making
interpretations of the rules, for deciding upon the approval of equipment,
materials, construction, and for granting the special permission contemplated
in a number of the rules and the Electrical Inspector, where necessary, shall
follow the code procedure for securing official interpretations of the code.
(Ord. 40, passed 4-28-70) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.06 LICENSING OF ELECTRICIANS.
   (A)   Master electrician. The term “master electrician” shall mean a person
having the necessary qualifications, training, experience and technical
knowledge to properly plan, lay out and supervise the installation of
electrical wiring, apparatus, the equipment for electric light, heat, power and
other purposes in accordance with the standard rules and regulations governing
such work, and who is qualified under the provisions of this chapter.
      (1)   He must be a person of not less than 21 years of age and of good
moral character.
      (2)   He must be a graduate electrical engineer from a recognized
university or college with at least two years of actual experience installing
wires, conductors, and electrical equipment used inside and outside of
buildings for transmissions of electrical current for light, heat or power, or
      (3)   He must have had at least six years experience, two years as a
journeyman, installing wires, conductors and electrical equipment used inside
and outside of buildings for the transmission of electrical current for light,
heat, or power.
      (4)   No master electrician may be a master electrician for more than one
person, firm, corporation, association or other legal entity.
      (5)   His principal income must be or will be from electrical contract
work.
   (B)   Electrical contractor. The term “electrical contractor” means any
person, firm, co-partnership, corporation, association, or combination thereof
who undertakes or who offers to undertake to plan for, layout, supervise and
install or to make additions, alterations, and repairs in the installation of
wiring, apparatus and equipment for electric light, heat and power for a fixed
sum, price, fee, percentage or other compensation. No persons, firm, co-
partnership, corporation, association or combination thereof shall operate as
an electrical contractor unless he is a licensed master electrician or has a
licensed master electrician in his or its employment.
   (C)   Journeyman electrician.  The term “journeyman electrician” means a
person who possesses the necessary qualifications, training and technical
knowledge to install wires, conductors and electrical equipment in accordance
with plans and specifications supplied for the transmission of electrical
current for light, heat or power. He shall have had at least four years
experience installing wire, conductors and electrical equipment used inside and
outside of buildings for the transmission of electrical current for light,
heat, or power.
   (D)   Apprentice electrician. The term “apprentice electrician” shall mean a
person working or serving to learn or be skilled in any branch of the
electrical trade and cannot perform the actual work of installing, repairing or
maintaining electrical wiring and equipment, unless under the direct
supervision of a master or journeyman electrician. An apprentice is not
required to be licensed under this chapter but his employer must register his
name with the City Electrical Inspector who will issue a certificate of grade
to the apprentice.
   (E)   Maintenance electrician. The term “maintenance electrician” means a
person engaged only in the work of operating the electrical installation in any
certain building or buildings or factory and/or the maintenance of such work.
Every person employed to maintain or supervise the maintenance of electrical
systems or electrical machinery shall be licensed as an electrical maintenance
electrician.
      (1)   He shall have had at least four years experience in the
installation and/or maintenance of electrical wiring and equipment.
      (2)   He shall not be employed by more than one person, firm, corporation
and shall not maintain more than one electrical system.
      (3)   He shall be permitted to make extensions or additions to any class
of electrical work on the premises for which he is employed to maintain,
provided permits and inspections are obtained in accordance with the city’s
electrical ordinance.
   (F)   Grandfather clause. Notwithstanding the provisions of divisions (A)
and (B) above, any person who is employed as a master electrician or is engaged
in business as an electrical contractor on the effective date of this chapter
shall be issued a license upon payment of the license fee, provided such person
certifies and demonstrates to the satisfaction of the City Electrical Inspector
in his application, which shall be filled in within two months after the
effective date of this chapter, that he meets the applicable requirements as
defined in this section.
   (G)   Death of master electrician. In the event of the death of a master
electrician employed by or engaged as an electrical contractor, the City
Electrical Inspector may upon receipt of an affidavit of death, issue a permit
authorizing the contractor of his estate to complete the job or jobs for which
the master electrician was employed, subject to all inspections hereafter
provided for, but any new job contracted for or begun after the date of the
death of the master electrician and/or electrical contractor shall have a
master electrician employed.
   (H)   Responsibility or liability. This chapter shall not be construed to
affect the responsibility or liability of any person, firm or corporation,
owning, operating, controlling or installing electrical materials, devices,
appliances or equivalent for damages to persons or property caused by any
defects therein, nor shall the city be held to assume any such liability by
reason of the approval of any material, devices, appliances, or equipment
authorized hereunder.
(Ord. 40, passed 4-28-70; Am. Ord. 58, passed 5-23-72) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.07 BOND REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage in any electrical work (as defined by the National
Electrical Code) until such person shall have secured a license as hereinafter
provided and shall have executed and delivered to the city a good and
sufficient bond in the penal sum of $5,000, with corporate surety, conditioned
for the faithful performance of all such work, to indemnify the city or any
citizen for any damage caused by the failure of such person, firm, or
corporation doing the electrical work, entered upon or contracted for, in
strict accordance and compliance with the provisions of this section. Annual
renewal of the bond is required.
(Ord. 40, passed 4-28-70; Am. Ord. 461, passed 1-21-14) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.08 LICENSE AND BOND PREREQUISITE TO PERMIT.
   (A)   No permit shall be issued until the party applying for same has given
satisfactory evidence to the Electrical Inspector of his or their ability to do
such electrical work in a safe and satisfactory manner. No permit for
installation or alterations of any wiring, heating devices, motors, appliances
and apparatus shall be issued until the license and bond herein required have
been obtained.
   (B)   Upon approval of said bond, the person desiring to do such work shall
secure from the City Clerk-Treasurer a non-transferable occupational license
which shall run until the first day of January next succeeding its issuance,
unless sooner revoked. The person obtaining a license shall pay an annual
license fee to the City Clerk-Treasurer, provided, however, that any license
obtained after the first day of July of any year shall be computed at the rate
of ½ of the annual fee. Occupational licenses from other cities will be
accepted with a reduced fee of $25.
(Ord. 40, passed 4-28-70; Am. Ord. 461, passed 1-21-14) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.09 FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall fail to correct any defect or
defects in his or her work or to meet the required standards after having been
given notice of the unfit condition by the Electrical Inspector, within a
reasonable time, shall be refused any other permit until such defect or defects
have been corrected and shall be subject to revocation of license for continual
defective work or either upon conviction for violation of the provision of this
chapter. Upon failure to comply with this chapter, the Electrical Inspector
shall have authority, after due notice, to cut out electric current in the
locality concerned.
(Ord. 40, passed 4-28-70)
§ 151.10 LICENSE TO INDIVIDUAL.
   A permit may be issued to a property owner to do work in his own home
provided he has a current master or journeyman electrician’s license with the
city or can submit sufficient proof that he possesses the knowledge and
experience to such a degree that he is capable of wiring his own home according
to this code, and can show proof that he owns the home, is presently residing,
or will reside in the structure after completion. All electrical work shall be
done by the applicant. Prior to the issuing of an electrical permit the
applicant must submit plans and specifications to the Electrical Inspector for
approval and complete an application.
(Ord. 40, passed 4-28-70; Am. Ord. 92, passed 12-8-75)
§ 151.11 VIOLATIONS.
   No person, firm, corporation or agent, shall violate a provisions of this
chapter, or fail to comply therewith, or with any of the requirements of the
code adopted hereby, nor shall any person erect, construct, alter, demolish or
move any structure, in violation of the code adopted by this section.
(Ord. 461, passed 1-21-14)
§ 151.12 REVOCATION.
   The City Inspector is authorized to, in writing, suspend or revoke a permit
issued under the provision of this code wherever the permit is issued in error,
or the basis of incorrect information supplied, or whether it is determined
that the building or structure or portion thereof is in violation of any
ordinance or regulation or any provision of this code.
(Ord. 461, passed 1-21-14)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation found guilty of violating any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be subject to a fine not less than $10 nor
more than $100 together with the costs of such prosecution, or by imprisonment.
Each day during which violation continues shall be a separate offense.
(Ord. 40, passed 4-28-70)
CHAPTER 152: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Statutory authority
   
152.02   Findings of fact
   
152.03   Statement of purpose
   
152.04   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
152.05   Definitions
   
152.06   Methods of reducing flood losses
   
152.07   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
152.08   Interpretation
   
152.09   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
152.10   Compliance
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
152.25   General standards
   
152.26   Risk zone specific standards
Administration
   
152.40   Designation of the Floodplain Administrator
   
152.41   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
   
152.42   Establishment of development permit
   
152.43   Permit procedures
   
152.44   Procedures for variance from the requirements of this code
   
152.45   Appeal Board
 
   
152.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 STATUTORY AUTHORITY.
   The Legislature of the State of Arkansas has in A.C.A. § 14-268-101 et seq.,
delegated the responsibility of local governmental units to adopt regulations
to minimize flood losses. Therefore, the City of White Hall of White Hall,
Arkansas, does hereby ordain as follows.
(Ord. 417, passed 1-20-09)
§ 152.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has identified special
flood hazard areas of White Hall in the current scientific and engineering
report entitled The Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for Jefferson County, Arkansas
and incorporated areas, dated March 16, 2009, with an effective flood insurance
rate map (FIRM) dated March 16, 2009.
   (B)   These special flood hazard areas are subject to periodic flooding
events that result in loss of life and property, pose health and safety
hazards, disrupt commerce and governmental services, and cause extraordinary
public expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which adversely
affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (C)   These periodic flooding events are exacerbated by the cumulative
effect of floodplain developments which cause an increase in flood heights and
velocities, and by the placement of inadequately elevated, inadequately
floodproofed or otherwise unprotected structures or uses vulnerable to floods
into special flood hazard areas. Such structures or uses are inherently
hazardous to other lands because of their adverse impact on flooding events.
(Ord. 417, passed 1-20-09)
§ 152.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare, to prevent adverse impacts from any floodplain development
activities, and to minimize public and private losses due to flooding events in
identified special flood hazard areas. This chapter advances the stated purpose
through provisions designed to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Protect natural floodplains against unwise development;
   (C)   Eliminate adverse impacts of necessary floodplain development;
   (D)   Minimize expenditure of public monies on flood control projects;
   (E)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (F)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions due to flooding events;
   (G)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
special flood hazard areas;
   (H)   Minimize future flood blight areas to help maintain a stable tax base;
and
   (I)   Provide for notice to potential buyers when property is in a special
flood hazard area.
(Ord. 417, passed 1-20-09)
§ 152.04 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   The chapter shall apply to all special flood hazard areas within the
jurisdiction of White Hall.
(Ord. 417, passed 1-20-09)
§ 152.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
Additional definitions for floodplain management terms can be found at 44 CFR §
59.1.
   44 CFR (EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AND ASSISTANCE - NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE
PROGRAM REGULATIONS). Parts 59 through 75 contain federal regulations upon
which local floodplain managements are based.
   44 CFR § 65.12. Contains the section of the federal regulations which
involves revision of flood insurance rate maps to reflect base flood elevations
caused by proposed encroachments.
   100-YEAR FLOOD. Any flood with a 1% chance of occurring in any given year.
The term is misleading, because of its statistical derivation. A 100-YEAR FLOOD
may occur many times in any given 100-year period, or it may not occur at all
in 100 years.
   500-YEAR FLOOD. Any flood with a 0.2% chance of occurring in any given year.
As with the 100-year flood, this term is also misleading, because of its
statistical derivation. A 500-YEAR FLOOD may occur many times in any given 500-
year period, or it may not occur at all in 500 years.
   A RISK ZONES. Special flood hazard areas without detailed studies, where
base flood elevations have not been determined.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURES. Structures which are on the same parcel of property as
the principal structure and the use of which is incidental to the use of the
principle structure (such as garages and storage sheds).
   ADVERSE IMPACT. Any negative or harmful effect.
   AE RISK ZONES. Special flood hazard areas where detailed studies have
determined base flood elevations.
   AH RISK ZONES. Special flood hazard areas characterized by shallow flooding
with ponding effects (where floodwaters accumulate in depressions and linger
until absorbed or evaporated).
   AO RISK ZONES. Special flood hazard areas characterized by shallow flooding
with sheet flow (where floodwaters flow in a broad, shallow sheet rather than
through a narrow channel).
   APPEAL BOARD. A person or persons specifically designated to render
decisions on variance applications and floodplain management complaints.
   AUTOMATIC ENTRY AND EXIT OF FLOODWATERS. The water must be able to enter and
exit with no intervening action from a person.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood profile used as the basis for the NFIP regulations.
The federal government has selected the 100-year flood as the base flood.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood profile used as the basis for the NFIP regulations.
The federal government has selected the 1% chance flood as the base flood.
   BASEMENT. Any enclosed area that is below grade on all sides.
   BFE. The acronym for Base Flood Elevation.
   BUOYANCY. The upward force exerted by water. BUOYANCY can cause underground
tanks to float free and can lift structures off foundations.
   CERTIFICATES OF COMPLIANCE. Formal documents issued by floodplain
administrators certifying that completed projects comply with the requirements
of the local code.
   CFR. The acronym for the Code of Federal Regulations. The Code of Federal
Regulations is the codification of the general and permanent rules published in
the Federal Register by the executive departments and agencies of the federal
government. It is divided into 50 titles that represent broad areas subject to
federal regulation. The federal regulations pertaining to the national flood
insurance program are found in title 44, Emergency Management and Assistance.
   CLEARING. The act of cutting timber or shrubs from an area.
   COMMERCIAL BUSINESS PARK. Typically an area of offices or light industrial
usage, although retail, service, or industrial usage is sometimes included in
supporting roles. For example, a COMMERCIAL BUSINESS PARK of office complexes
may also include restaurants which service these offices.
   CONCRETE DEADMAN ANCHORS. Heavy steel rods embedded in buried sections of
concrete, used to secure items in place under tension.
   COVENANT. A clause in a contract that requires one party to do, or refrain
from doing, certain things. A COVENANT frequently appears as a restriction that
a lender imposes on a borrower.
   CRAWLSPACE. A type of structural foundation where the space beneath the
lowest floor is typically not deep enough to allow a person to stand and not
all four walls are below grade.
   CRITICAL FACILITIES. Includes: governmental facilities that are considered
essential for the delivery of critical services and crisis management (such as
data and communication centers and key governmental complexes); facilities that
are essential for the health and welfare of the whole population (such as
hospitals, prisons, police and fire stations, emergency operations centers,
evacuation shelters and schools); mass transportation facilities (such as
airports, bus terminals, train terminals); lifeline utility systems (including
potable water, wastewater, oil, natural gas, electric power and communications
systems); high potential loss facilities (such as nuclear power plants or
military installations); hazardous material facilities (such as industrial
facilities housing or manufacturing or disposing of corrosives, explosives,
flammable materials, radioactive materials and toxins).
   D ZONES. Areas in which the flood hazard has not been determined, but may be
possible.
   DEED RESTRICTION. Refers to a clause in a deed that limits the future uses
of the property in some respect. DEED RESTRICTIONS may impose a vast variety of
limitations and conditions, for example, they may limit the density of
buildings, dictate the types of structures that can be erected, prevent
buildings from being used for specific purposes or even from being used at all.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate. It
includes, but is not limited to, construction, reconstruction, or placement of
a building, or any addition or substantial improvements to a building.
DEVELOPMENT also includes the installation of a manufactured home on a site,
preparing a site for a manufactured home, or installing/parking a travel
trailer. The installation of utilities, construction of roads, bridges,
culverts or similar projects are also DEVELOPMENTS. Construction or erection of
levees, dams, walls, or fences; drilling, mining, filling, dredging, grading,
excavating, paving, or other alterations of the ground surface are
DEVELOPMENTS. Storage of materials including the placement of gas and liquid
storage tanks are DEVELOPMENTS, as are channel modifications or any other
activity that might change the direction, height, or velocity of flood or
surface waters. DEVELOPMENT will normally not include maintenance of existing
drainage ditches, gardening, plowing, planting, harvesting of crops, or similar
practices that do not involve filling, grading, or construction of levees.
   DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. The permit required for placing a development in the
floodplain.
   EASEMENTS. Rights or permissions held by one person to make specific,
limited use of land owned by another person.
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. Refers to FEMA form 81-31, which for the purposes of
this code must be properly completed by a professional engineer, surveyor or
architect licensed to practice in the State of Arkansas.
   EROSION. The process of soil removal by moving water.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   EXISTING STRUCTURE. For floodplain management purposes, a structure which is
in place before any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other
improvement takes place.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY or FEMA. The federal agency responsible
for administering the National Flood Insurance Program.
   FEMA. The acronym for the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FILL. The placement of natural sand, dirt, soil, rock, concrete, cement,
brick or similar material at a specified location to bring the ground surface
up to a desired elevation.
   FIRM. The acronym for Flood Insurance Rate Map.
   FLOOD FRINGE. The portion of the 100-year floodplain which is outside the
floodway (See definition of FLOODWAY below.)
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (or FIRM). The official flood map of a community on
which FEMA has categorized special flood hazard areas into risk premium zones.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (or FIS). The official report provided by FEMA. It
contains flood profiles, floodway tables, engineering methods, and other
descriptive and technical data.
   FLOODING EVENTS. General or temporary conditions of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from the overflow of inland or tidal
waters, or from the unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters
from any source.
   FLOODPLAIN. Any land area susceptible to inundation by floodwaters from any
source. For the purposes of this code, FLOODPLAIN refers to the land area
susceptible to being inundated by the base flood.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The community official designated in the local
flood damage prevention code as responsible for the code’s administration.
   FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. A permit issued by the local Floodplain
Administrator and is required before beginning any development in an area
designated as a special flood hazard area on the community’s FIRM.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including but not limited to
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain management
regulations.
   FLOODPROOFING. A combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures that reduce or eliminate the risk of
flood damage.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. FEMA form 81-65, which for the purposes of this
code must be properly completed by a professional engineer or architect
licensed to practice in the State of Arkansas.
   FLOODWAY or REGULATORY FLOODWAY. A stream channel and the land to either
side of the stream channel that must remain undeveloped and open in order to
allow floodwaters to pass without increasing the base flood elevation more than
a designated height. For the purposes of this code, the height is one foot.
Severe restrictions or prohibitions are imposed on development within the
floodway.
   FLOW-THROUGH OPENINGS. Openings specifically designed to allow floodwaters
to flow into and out of enclosed spaces, minimizing the danger of foundation or
wall collapse from lateral hydrostatic pressure.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE. A use that requires a location or construction
contrary to the requirements of the code. Shipyards and docks are the most
common examples of FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDANT USES, but in Arkansas, water and
wastewater treatment facilities are often constructed on normally prohibited
sites. Another example of a FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDANT USE might be an addition to
a manufacturing facility with precision equipment which must align with
existing equipment in a pre-existing, pre-FIRM building. Variances may be
granted for FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDANT USES.
   GRADE. The surface of the ground.
   GRADING. To smooth the surface of the ground, typically with heavy
construction equipment.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE (HAG). The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORICAL STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the
Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as meeting the requirements for individual listing on the National
Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the
historical significance of a registered historic district or a district
preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as a registered historic
district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation
programs which have been approved by the Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory or historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior or;
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   HYDRODYNAMIC FORCES. The forces and stresses associated with moving water,
including impacts from objects carried in the water.
   HYDROSTATIC FLOOD FORCES. The forces and stresses associated with standing
floodwaters.
   LACUSTRINE FLOODING. Flooding associated with a lake.
   LATERAL FORCES. The horizontal hydrostatic forces associated with standing
water. Water exerts an equal force in all directions, and as little as three
feet of standing water can generate sufficient lateral force to collapse a
foundation or wall.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). For a typical slab-on-grade construction, the LOWEST FLOOR is the
top of the first floor of the structure. For a typical basement foundation
construction, the elevation of the LOWEST FLOOR is the top of the basement
floor. For a typical crawlspace foundation construction, the elevation of the
LOWEST FLOOR is the top of the first floor of the structure. For a typical
split-level construction, the elevation of the LOWEST FLOOR is the top of the
first living area floor. For a manufactured home installation, the elevation of
the LOWEST FLOOR will be the bottom of the lowest I-beam. The garage floor and
crawlspaces are not the LOWEST FLOOR as long as there are no living areas in
the garage and it is used solely for storage, parking vehicle and entry to the
structure, provided that such enclosure is not built so as to render the
structure in violation of the applicable non-elevation design requirements of §
60.3 of the National Flood Insurance regulations.
   MANUFACTURE HOMES OR STRUCTURES. A structure, transportable in one or more
sections, which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or
without a permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The
term MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreational vehicle.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land subdivided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL (MSL). For the purposes of the NFIP, the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum, to which base flood elevations
shown on a community’s FIRM are referenced.
   MIXED USE STRUCTURES. Structures with both a business and a residential
component, but where the area used for business is less than 50% of the total
floor area of the structure.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For floodplain management purposes, structures for which
the start of construction commenced on or after the date of a floodplain
management regulation adopted by a community and includes any subsequent
improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   NO ADVERSE IMPACT PRINCIPLE. A principle of restricting or prohibiting land
development that does harm or adversely affects someone else’s property or
land.
   NONRESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES. Structures used only for commercial or public
purposes, such as businesses, schools, churches, and the like.
   NO-RISE CERTIFICATES. Formal certifications signed and stamped by a
professional engineer licensed to practice in the State of Arkansas,
demonstrating through hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance
with standard engineering practice that a proposed development will not result
in any increase in flood levels within the community during the occurrence of a
base flood event.
   PIERS. Columns of masonry or other structural material (commonly cement
blocks stacked up to support a manufactured home), usually rectangular, used to
support other structural members. For the purpose of this chapter, PIERS must
be permanent in nature.
   PILINGS. Steel tubes driven to rock or a suitable soil-bearing layer and
connected to the foundation of a structure.
   PONDING. A flooding effect where floodwaters accumulate in shallow
depressions and linger until absorbed or evaporated.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   RISK ZONES. Categorize special flood hazard areas into groupings by the
specific risk of flooding. Zones A, AE, AO, and AH are special flood hazard
areas. See X RISK ZONES in this section.
   RIVERINE FLOODING. Flooding associated with a river or stream channel.
   RV. The acronym for recreational vehicle.
   SCREW AUGERS. Any type of anchor that twists into the soil, typically to a
depth of four feet or more. They are not suitable for securing manufactured
homes against floodwaters because saturated grounds often soften and fail to
hold the anchor in place.
   SECTION 404 WETLANDS PERMIT. A permit required under § 404 of the Clean
Water Act for the discharge of dredged and fill material into any surface water
of the United States. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers issues § 404 permits.
   SFHA. The acronym for special flood hazard area.
   SHALLOW FLOODING. A depth of less than three feet.
   SLAB ANCHORS. Anchors where the hook of the anchor is wrapped around a
horizontal rebar in the slab before the concrete is poured.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS. Geographical areas identified on FEMA flood maps
as being at-risk for flooding. The maps further categorize these areas into
various flood risk zones A, AE, AH, and AO.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement, or other
improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start means
either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site,
such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual START
OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the
external dimensions of the building.
   STATE COORDINATING AGENCY. The agency that acts as a liaison between FEMA
and a community for the purposes of floodplain management. The Arkansas Natural
Resources Commission is the STATE COORDINATING AGENCY for Arkansas.
   STREAM CHANNELS. Depressed natural pathways through which water of any
quantity routinely flows.
   STRUCTURAL DEVELOPMENT. A development that includes the placement or
construction of a structure.
   STRUCTURE. For floodplain management purposes, a walled and roofed building,
including a gas or liquid storage tank that is principally above ground, as
well as a manufactured home.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin where the cost to restore a
structure to its original undamaged state would equal or exceed 50% of the
market value of the structure before any damage occurred. In determining
whether SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE has occurred, estimators must use standard
contractor and materials costs. There are no exceptions for homeowners who make
their own repairs or for discounted or free raw materials.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, remodeling, addition or
improvement to a structure with a cost equaling or exceeding 50% of the market
value of the structure before any improvement. Improvements to correct
identified violations of local health, sanitary or safety codes are not
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENTS, regardless of the cost, as long as they are the
minimum improvement necessary to bring the structure up to code. Alterations to
historical structures are also exempted, as long as the improvement does not
affect the structure’s official status of “historical structure”.
   USES VULNERABLE TO FLOODS. Any land or structural uses that may be
negatively affected by a flood.
   VARIANCE. A formal, written permission from the Appeals Board to construct
or develop in a way that is inconsistent with the requirements of this code.
The VARIANCE only deals with this code; the Appeals Board has no authority to
waive any other governmental requirement, and has no say in the cost of flood
insurance.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in this code is presumed to be in
VIOLATION until such time as that documentation is provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 (or other datum, where specified), of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
   WATERCOURSE ALTERATION. Any change that occurs within the banks of a
watercourse.
   X RISK ZONES. A special group of insurance risk zones. One type, shown as
non-shaded areas on FEMA issued flood maps, indicates a zone where flooding is
not expected to occur. The second type, shown as shaded areas of FEMA flood
maps, indicates a flood hazard area that is expected to be affected by the 500-
year flood, but not by the 100-year base flood.
(Ord. 417, passed 1-20-09)
§ 152.06 METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES.
   This chapter uses the following methods to accomplish the stated purpose:
   (A)   This chapter restricts or prohibits structures or uses in special
flood hazard areas that adversely impact health, safety or property during
flooding events;
   (B)   This chapter requires protection against flood damage for structures
or uses vulnerable to floods at the time of initial construction, or after
substantial improvement of the structure, or after substantial damage has
occurred;
   (C)   This chapter controls the alteration of natural floodplains, stream
channels and natural protective barriers which are involved in the
accommodation and transport of flood waters;
   (D)   This chapter controls floodplain development (structural development,
placement of manufactured structures, clearing, grading, mining, drilling,
dredging, placement of fill, excavating, watercourse alteration, drainage
improvements, roadway or bridge construction, individual water or sewer
installations and other activities) which may increase flood damage by
increasing flood elevations, flood water velocities, or flood discharge
patterns; and
   (E)   This chapter regulates the construction of flood barriers which
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may adversely impact other lands.
(Ord. 417, passed 1-20-09)
§ 152.07 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter does not repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements,
covenants, or deed restrictions. Whenever there is a conflict or overlap
between this chapter and another ordinance, easement, covenant, or deed
restriction, the instrument with the more stringent restrictions applies.
(Ord. 417, passed 1-20-09)
§ 152.08 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions must:
   (A)   Be considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Be liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Be deemed to neither limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 417, passed 1-20-09)
§ 152.09 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes. Documented scientific and engineering data
form the basis for these requirements. On rare occasions, flooding events
greater than those considered for this chapter will occur. In addition, flood
heights may increase over time due to man-made or natural causes. This chapter
does not imply that land outside special flood hazard areas will be free from
flooding, nor that strict adherence to this chapter protects uses permitted
within special flood hazard areas from all flood damages. This chapter
specifically does not create liability on the part of the community, nor any
official or employee of the community, for any flood damages that result while
strictly following this chapter, or from any lawful administrative decision
made under the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 417, passed 1-20-09)
§ 152.10 COMPLIANCE.
   Constructing, locating, substantially altering or changing the use of any
structure or land after the effective date of this chapter requires full
compliance with the provisions of this chapter and all other applicable
regulations.
(Ord. 417, passed 1-20-09) Penalty, see §
152.99
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 152.25 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   The following standards apply to all developments in special flood hazard
areas, regardless of the type of proposed development or the risk zone of the
proposed site.
   (A)   All new and substantial construction or substantial improvements shall
be designed (or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse or lateral movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and
hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
   (B)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials resistant to flood damage.
   (D)   All critical facilities constructed or substantially improved in
special flood hazard areas (SFHA) must be constructed or modified to exceed
500-year flood protection standards or located outside the SFHA.
   (E)   The placement or construction of all new structures must be in full
compliance with the provisions of this code.
   (F)   For the purposes of this code, all mixed-use structures are subject to
the more stringent requirements of residential structures.
   (G)   A substantial improvement or substantial damage to an existing
structure triggers a requirement to bring the entire structure into full
compliance with the provisions of this code. The existing structure, as well as
any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other improvement, must meet
the standards of new construction in this code.
   (H)   Any improvement to an existing structure that is less than a
substantial improvement requires the improvement, but not the existing
structure, to be in full compliance with the provisions of this code.
   (I)   All manufactured homes to be placed within a special flood hazard area
on a community’s FIRM shall be installed using methods and practices which
minimize flood damage. For the purposes of this requirement, manufactured homes
must be elevated and anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of
over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in addition
to applicable state and local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
Screw augers or expanding anchors will not satisfy the requirement of this
provision.
   (J)   The design or location of electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing,
and air conditioning equipment for new structures, or for any improvements to
an existing structure, must prevent water from entering or accumulating within
the components during base flood events.
   (K)   The design of all new and replacement water supply systems must
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system during base
flood events.
   (L)   The design of all new and replacement sanitary sewage systems must
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system during
flooding events, and must prevent sewage discharge from the systems into
floodwaters.
   (M)   The placement of on-site waste disposal systems must avoid impairment
to, or contamination from, the disposal system during base flood events.
   (N)   Construction of basement foundations in any special flood hazard area
is prohibited.
   (O)   New construction and substantial improvements, with fully enclosed
areas (such as garages and crawlspaces) below the lowest floor that are usable
solely for parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other
than a basement and which are below the base flood elevation shall be designed
to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by
allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this
requirement must either be certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect or meet or exceed the following minimum criteria:
      (1)   A minimum of two openings on separate walls having a total net area
of not less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject
to flooding shall be provided;
      (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above
grade; and
      (3)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
   (P)   The placement of recreational vehicles (RV) in special flood hazard
areas must either:
       (1)   Be temporary, as demonstrated by the RV being fully licensed,
being on wheels or a jacking system, attached to the site only by quick
disconnect type utilities and security devices, having no permanently attached
additions, and being immobile for no more than 180 consecutive days; or else
      (2)   Meet all provisions of this Code applicable to manufactured home
structures.
   (Q)   All proposals for the development of a residential subdivision,
commercial business park or manufactured home park/subdivision must have public
utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems
located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage.
   (R)   All proposals for the development of a residential subdivision,
commercial business park or a manufactured home park/subdivision must include
an adequate drainage plan to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (S)   All proposals for the development of a commercial business park or a
manufactured home park/subdivision must include an adequate evacuation plan for
the escape of citizens from affected nonresidential structures during flooding
events.
(Ord. 417, passed 1-20-09)
§ 152.26 RISK ZONE SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In addition to the general standards, the following standards apply to
specific development types in specific risk zones. Risk zones listed in this
code that do not appear on the current FIRM are not applicable.
   (A)   In AE risk zones: special flood hazard areas with base floods
determined.
      (1)   For residential structures in zone AE:
         (a)    For all new residential structures, the top surface of the
lowest floor must have an elevation of two feet or more above the published
BFE. This elevation must be documented on an elevation certificate properly
completed by a professional engineer, surveyor or architect licensed to
practice in the State of Arkansas.
         (b)   For all substantial improvements or substantial damage to
existing residential structures, the entire structure becomes subject to the
requirements of a new residential structure.
         (c)   For any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other
improvement to an existing residential structure that is less than a
substantial improvement, only the improved area, but not the entire structure,
becomes subject to the requirements of a new residential structure.
      (2)   For nonresidential structures in zone AE:
         (a)   All new commercial, industrial or other nonresidential
structures must either:
            1.   Have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated two feet
or more above the base flood level; or
            2.   Be floodproofed such that, together with attendant utility and
sanitary facilities, be designed so that below an elevation of three feet above
the base flood level the structure is watertight with walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water and with structural components having the
capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of
buoyancy.
            3.   A registered professional engineer or architect shall develop
and/or review structural design, specifications, and plans for the
construction, and shall certify on a floodproofing certificate that the design
and methods of construction are in accordance with accepted standards of
practice as outlined in this section. A record of such certification which
includes the specific elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which such
structures are floodproofed shall be maintained by the Floodplain
Administrator.
         (b)   For all substantial improvements or substantial damage to
existing commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structures the entire
structure becomes subject to the requirements of a new nonresidential
structure.
         (c)   For any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other
improvement to an existing nonresidential structure that is less than a
substantial improvement, only the improved area, but not the entire structure,
becomes subject to the requirements of a new nonresidential structure.
      (3)   For manufactured homes in zone AE:
         (a)   All manufactured homes that are placed or substantially improved
on sites:
            1.   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision;
            2.   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
            3.   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
            4.   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which
a manufactured home has incurred “substantial damage” as a result of a flood,
be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the
manufactured home is elevated two feet or more above the base flood elevation
and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement;
         (b)   Require that manufactured homes be placed or substantially
improved on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on the
community’s FIRM that are not subject to the provisions of division (A)(3)(a)
of this section be elevated so that either:
            1.   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is two feet or more
above the base flood elevation; or
            2.   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less
than 36 inches in height above grade and be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement;
         (c)   For all substantial improvements or substantial damage to
existing manufactured home, the entire structure becomes subject to the
requirements of a new manufactured home;
         (d)   For any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other
improvement to an existing manufactured home that is less than a substantial
improvement, only the improved area, but not the entire structure, becomes
subject to the requirements of a new manufactured home.
      (4)   Where FEMA has not established a regulatory floodway in zone AE, no
floodplain development permit may be issued unless a detailed engineering
analysis is submitted along with the application that demonstrates the increase
in base floodwater elevation due to the proposed development and all cumulative
developments since the publication of the current FIRM will be less than one
foot.
   (B)   Floodways: high risk areas of stream channel and adjacent floodplain.
Developments in regulatory floodways are prohibited, unless:
      (1)   A no-rise certificate, signed and stamped by a professional
engineer licensed to practice in the State of Arkansas, is submitted to
demonstrate through hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance
with standard engineering practice that the proposed development would not
result in any increase in flood levels within the community during the
occurrence of a base flood event; or
      (2)   All requirements of 44 CFR § 65.12 are first met.
   (C)   In AH or AO risk zones: special flood hazard areas of shallow
flooding.
      (1)   For residential structures in zones AH or AO:
         (a)   All new residential structures must be constructed with the top
surface of the lowest floor elevated two feet or more above the published BFE,
or two feet or more above the highest adjacent grade in addition to the depth
number specified (at least two feet if no depth number is specified) on the
community’s FIRM. This elevation must be documented on an elevation certificate
properly completed by a professional engineer, surveyor or architect licensed
to practice in the State of Arkansas.
         (b)   For all substantial improvements or substantial damage to
existing residential structures the entire structure becomes subject to the
requirements of a new residential structure.
         (c)   For any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other
improvement to an existing residential structure that is less than a
substantial improvement, only the improved area, but not the entire structure,
becomes subject to the requirements of a new residential structure.
      (2)   For nonresidential structures in zones AH or AO:
         (a)   All new commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
must either:
            1.   Have the top surface of the lowest floor elevated two feet or
more above the published BFE, or two feet or more above the highest adjacent
grade in addition to the depth number specified (at least two feet if no depth
number is specified) on the community’s FIRM, with documentation on an
elevation certificate properly completed by a professional engineer, surveyor
or architect licensed to practice in the State of Arkansas; or
            2.   Be floodproofed such that the structure, together with
attendant utility and sanitary facilities be designed so that below three feet
or more above the published BFE in zone AH, or three feet or more above the
base specified flood depth in an AO zone, the structure is watertight with
walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads of effects of buoyancy.
         (b)   For all substantial improvements or substantial damage to
existing commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structures the entire
structure becomes subject to the requirements of a new nonresidential
structure.
         (c)   For any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other
improvement to an existing nonresidential structure that is less than a
substantial improvement, only the improved area, but not the entire structure,
becomes subject to the requirements of a new nonresidential structure.
      (3)   For manufactured homes in zones AH or AO:
         (a)   All manufactured homes that are placed or substantially improved
on sites:
            1.   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision;
            2.   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
            3.   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
            4.   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which
a manufactured home has incurred “substantial damage” as a result of a flood,
be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the
manufactured home is elevated two feet or more above the published BFE, or two
feet or more above the highest adjacent grade in addition to the depth number
specified (at least two feet if no depth number is specified) on the
community’s FIRM, and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation
system to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
         (b)   Require that manufactured homes be placed or substantially
improved on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on the
community’s FIRM that are not subject to the provisions of division (C)(3)(a)
of this section be elevated so that either:
            1.   The lowest floor of the manufactured home meets the elevation
standard of division (C)(3)(a); or
            2.   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less
than 36 inches in height above grade and be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
         (c)   For all substantial improvements or substantial damage to
existing manufactured home, the entire structure becomes subject to the
requirements of a new manufactured home.
         (d)   For any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other
improvement to an existing manufactured home that is less than a substantial
improvement, only the improved area, but not the entire structure, becomes
subject to the requirements of a new manufactured home.
      (4)   Where FEMA has not established a regulatory floodway in zones AH or
AO, no floodplain development permit may be issued unless a detailed
engineering analysis is submitted along with the application that demonstrates
the increase in base floodwater elevation due to the proposed development and
all cumulative developments since the publication of the current FIRM will be
less than one foot.
      (5)   Require adequate drainage paths around structures on slopes, to
guide flood waters around and away from proposed structures.
   (D)   In A risk zones: special flood hazard areas with no base flood
elevations determined.
      (1)   In zone A, the applicant or the applicant’s agent must determine a
base flood elevation prior to construction. The BFE will be based on a source
or method approved by the local Floodplain Administrator.
      (2)   For residential structures in zone A.
         (a)   For all new residential structures, the top surface of the
lowest floor must have an elevation two feet or more above the BFE. This
elevation must be documented on an elevation certificate properly completed by
a professional engineer, surveyor or architect licensed to practice in the
State of Arkansas.
         (b)   For all substantial improvements or substantial damage to
existing residential structures, the entire structure becomes subject to the
requirements of a new residential structure.
         (c)   For any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other
improvement to an existing residential structure that is less than a
substantial improvement, only the improved area, but not the entire structure,
becomes subject to the requirements of a new residential structure.
      (3)   For nonresidential structures in zone A.
         (a)   All new commercial, industrial or other nonresidential
structures must either:
            1.   Have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated two feet
or more above the base flood level; or
            2.   Be floodproofed such that, together with attendant utility and
sanitary facilities, be designed so that below an elevation of three feet above
the base flood level the structure is watertight with walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water and with structural components having the
capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of
buoyancy.
            3.    A registered professional engineer or architect shall develop
and/or review structural design, specifications, and plans for the
construction, and shall certify on a floodproofing certificate that the design
and methods of construction are in accordance with accepted standards of
practice as outlined in this section. A record of such certification which
includes the specific elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which such
structures are floodproofed shall be maintained by the Floodplain
Administrator.
         (b)   For all substantial improvements or substantial damage to
existing commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structures the entire
structure becomes subject to the requirements of a new nonresidential
structure.
         (c)   For any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other
improvement to an existing nonresidential structure that is less than a
substantial improvement, only the improved area, but not the entire structure,
becomes subject to the requirements of a new nonresidential structure.
      (4)   For manufactured homes in zone A.
         (a)   All manufactured homes that are placed or substantially improved
on sites:
            1.   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision;
            2.   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
            3.   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
            4.   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which
a manufactured home has incurred “substantial damage” as a result of a flood,
be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the
manufactured home is elevated two feet or more above the base flood elevation
and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
         (b)   Require that manufactured homes be placed or substantially
improved on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on the
community’s FIRM that are not subject to the provisions of division (D)(4)(a)
of this section be elevated so that either:
            1.   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is two feet or more
above the base flood elevation; or
            2.   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less
than 36 inches in height above grade and be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
         (c)   For all substantial improvements or substantial damage to
existing manufactured home, the entire structure becomes subject to the
requirements of a new manufactured home.
         (d)   For any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other
improvement to an existing manufactured home that is less than a substantial
improvement, only the improved area, but not the entire structure, becomes
subject to the requirements of a new manufactured home.
      (5)   Base flood elevation data and a regulatory floodway, utilizing
accepted engineering practices, shall be generated for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions which is greater than 50 lots or five acres, whichever
is lesser, if not otherwise provided.
(Ord. 417, passed 1-20-09)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 152.40 DESIGNATION OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Mayor of White Hall, or his or her designee, is hereby appointed the
Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 417, passed 1-20-09)
§ 152.41 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   It is the duty and responsibility of the Floodplain Administrator or his or
her designee to:
   (A)   Obtain accreditation each year as required by A.C.A. § 14-268-106
through the State Coordinating Agency, which is the Arkansas Natural Resources
Commission;
   (B)   Administer and implement the provisions of this code and other
appropriate sections of 44 CFR (Emergency Management and Assistance - National
Flood Insurance Program Regulations) as they pertain to floodplain management;
   (C)   Review applications for floodplain development permits to:
      (1)   Evaluate proposed projects for reasonable safety from flooding;
      (2)   Evaluate proposed projects for conformance with no adverse impact
principles;
      (3)   Ensure that all other permits necessary (including § 404 Wetlands
Permits as required by the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of
1972, 33 U.S.C. § 1334) for proposed projects are obtained from the appropriate
government agency prior to issuing a floodplain development permit; and
      (4)   Ensure that proposed projects conform to the applicable provisions
of this code;
   (D)   Approve or deny applications for floodplain development permits on the
basis of:
      (1)   The proposed development’s compliance or non-compliance with the
provisions of this code;
      (2)   The expected flood elevation, flood water velocity, flood duration,
rate of rise and sediment transport of the floodwaters expected at the proposed
development site;
      (3)   The proposed development’s potential to adversely impact life and
property by changing flooding patterns, changing erosion rates, or being swept
onto other lands by flood waters;
      (4)   The proposed development’s susceptibility to flood damage;
      (5)   The proposed development’s compatibility with existing and planned
community development;
      (6)   The proposed development’s accessibility by ordinary and emergency
vehicles during flooding events;
      (7)   The anticipated costs of providing governmental services to the
proposed development during and after flooding events, including maintenance
and repair of streets, bridges, facilities and public utilities such as sewer,
gas, electrical and water systems;
      (8)   The proposed development’s functionally dependent use;
      (9)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed development; and
      (10)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan for
that area;
   (E)   Interpret the exact location of the boundaries of special flood hazard
areas whenever a mapped boundary appears to be different from actual field
conditions. (The sole purpose of this interpretation is to determinate the
applicability of the provisions of this code to the proposed project);
   (F)   Notify adjacent communities and the state coordinating agency, which
is the Arkansas Natural Resources Commission, a minimum of 60 days prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of all such
notifications to FEMA;
   (G)   Ensure that the flood carrying capacity within an altered or relocated
portion of a watercourse is not diminished, and that the alteration or
relocation does not adversely impact any other lands;
   (H)   Obtain, review and reasonably utilize, whenever the current flood
insurance study or current flood insurance rate map does not provide base flood
elevation data, any base flood elevation data and
floodway data available from any federal, state or other source. The Floodplain
Administrator may obtain such data by requiring the applicant to submit it in
conjunction with a floodplain development permit application. (The sole use of
this data is the administration of the provisions of this code);
   (I)   Inspect floodplain developments as necessary to ensure construction is
in accordance with the application data that formed the basis for the decision
to issue the floodplain development permit;
   (J)   Issue certificates of compliance; and
   (K)   Maintain all records and documents pertaining to this code for public
inspection.
(Ord. 417, passed 1-20-09)
§ 152.42 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit is required for all structural development,
placement of manufactured structures, clearing, grading, mining, drilling,
dredging, placement of fill, excavating, watercourse alteration, drainage
improvements, roadway or bridge construction, individual water or sewer
installations or any other development in a special flood hazard area to ensure
conformance with the provisions of this code.
(Ord. 417, passed 1-20-09)
§ 152.43 PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Application for a floodplain development permit shall be presented to
the Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her and may include,
but not be limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the location,
dimensions, and elevation of proposed landscape alterations, existing and
proposed structures, including the placement of manufactured homes, and the
location of the foregoing in relation to areas of special flood hazard.
   (B)   The documentation required with each application for a floodplain
development permit, and the specific provisions of this code applicable to the
proposed development, are dependant upon the type of development proposed and
the risk zone of the proposed development site. Section 152.25 contains
standards for all developments in all risk zones. Section 152.26 contains
standards for specific development types in specific risk zones.
   (C)   The decision of the Floodplain Administrator to approve or deny
issuance of a floodplain development permit is subject to appeal to the
designated Appeal Board. Within White Hall, Arkansas the designated Appeal
Board is the City Council.
(Ord. 417, passed 1-20-09)
§ 152.44 PROCEDURES FOR VARIANCE FROM THE REQUIREMENTS OF THIS CODE.
   (A)   Applicants must submit petitions for variances directly to the Appeal
Board.
   (B)   Variances may only be issued:
      (1)   If showing a good and sufficient cause;
      (2)   If granting of the variance will not result in any adverse impact
upon other lands;
      (3)   If granting of the variance will not result in any additional
threats to public safety;
      (4)   If granting of the variance will not result in extraordinary public
expense;
      (5)   If granting of the variance does not create a nuisance, cause fraud
on or victimization of the public, or conflict with existing laws or
ordinances;
      (6)   If granting of the variance will not result in increased flood
heights or an increase in expected flood velocities;
      (7)   If the requested variance is the minimum necessary, considering the
flood hazards, to afford the necessary relief; and
      (8)   Upon determination that the requested variance is necessary to
avoid an extraordinary hardship to the applicant.
   (C)   Variances may not be issued for developments inside a regulatory
floodway unless:
      (1)   All requirements of 44 CFR § 65.12 are first met; or
      (2)   The following requirements are met:
         (a)   A no-rise certificate signed and sealed by a professional
engineer licensed to practice in the State of Arkansas is submitted to document
that no increase in the base flood elevation would result from granting a
variance for the proposed development;
         (b)   Protective measures are employed to minimize damages during
flooding events; and
         (c)   The variance does not result in any adverse impact to other
lands.
   (D)   Examples of developments for which variance petitions may be
appropriate include but
are not limited to:
      (1)   The new construction of, or substantial improvement to, a structure
on a lot of one-half acre or less in size that is surrounded by contiguous lots
with existing structures constructed below the base flood elevation;
      (2)   For the reconstruction, rehabilitation or restoration of an
historical structure, provided that:
         (a)   The proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the
structure’s continued designation as a historic structure; and
         (b)   The variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic
character and design of the structure;
      (3)   The new construction of, substantial improvement to, or other
development necessary to conduct a functionally dependent use, provided that:
         (a)   The criteria outlined in divisions (C) and (D) of this section
and §
152.45 are met; and
         (b)   The structure or other development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats
to public safety.
(Ord. 417, passed 1-20-09)
§ 152.45 APPEAL BOARD.
   (A)   Within White Hall, Arkansas the City Council is the designated Appeal
Board.
   (B)   The Appeal Board will consider an appeal only with allegations of an
error in any requirement, decision, or determination made by the Floodplain
Administrator in the enforcement or administration of this code.
   (C)   Upon consideration of the factors noted in §§
152.44 and
152.45 and the intent of this chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such
conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the
purpose and objectives of this chapter.
   (D)   Appeal Board decisions are binding only upon the requirements of this
code, and have no bearing on the decision of any lending institution to require
the purchase of flood insurance or on the rate determination of such insurance.
   (E)   Any time the Appeal Board issues a variance, it must provide the
applicant with a formal written warning of an increased risk of flood damage
due to removal of restrictions designed to lessen such risks. The notice must
also warn of a corresponding increase in the cost of flood insurance, since the
cost of such insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk.
   (F)   Aggrieved parties may appeal any decision of the Appeal Board to a
court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 417, passed 1-20-09)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   Flood hazards are reduced by compliance with the provisions of this code.
Accordingly, enforcement of §§
152.01 through
152.10 discourages non-compliance and is a recognized mechanism for flood
hazard reduction.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator must enforce the provisions of §§
152.01 through
152.10 and is authorized to:
      (1)   Issue cease and desist orders on non-compliant floodplain
development projects;
      (2)   Issue citations for non-compliance;
      (3)   Request that FEMA file a 1316 action (denial of flood insurance)
against non-compliant properties; and
      (4)   Take any other lawful action necessary to prevent or remedy any
instance of non-compliance with the provisions of §§
152.01 through
152.10.
   (B)   It is a misdemeanor to violate or fail to comply with any provision of
§§
152.01 through
152.10.
   (C)   Any person found, in a court of competent jurisdiction, guilty of
violating §§
152.01 through
152.10 is subject to fines of not more than $ 500 per day for each violation;
in addition the defendant is subject to payment of all associated court costs
and costs involved in the case.
(Ord. 417, passed 1-20-09)
CHAPTER 153: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Definitions
   
153.02   Purpose and intent
   
153.03   Authority
   
153.04   Jurisdiction
   
153.05   Cost of improvements
   
153.06   Provisions for acquisition of land for public use
   
153.07   Interpretation and separability
Procedure for Plat Approval
   
153.20   Preliminary consultation
   
153.21   Filing of preliminary plat
   
153.22   Final plat
   
153.23   Minor subdivisions and lot splits
   
153.24   Replatting
Platting Requirements
   
153.35   Submission to the Planning Commission of preliminary plat
   
153.36   Letter of intent to subdivide
   
153.37   Preliminary plat
   
153.38   Required information to accompany preliminary plat
   
153.39   Qualifications governing approval of preliminary plat
   
153.40   Certification of preliminary plats and plans
   
153.41   Constitution of final plat
   
153.42   Letter of intent to obtain final plat approval
   
153.43   Final plat information
   
153.44   Required information to accompany final plat
   
153.45   Certification of final plat
   
153.46   Minor subdivisions and lot splits
   
153.47   Replatting
Design Standards and Construction Requirements
   
153.60   Conformance to rules and regulations
   
153.61   Streets and alleys
   
153.62   Sewer and water systems
   
153.63   Storm drainage system; storm drainage criteria
   
153.64   Monuments
   
153.65   Plans and specifications
Administration and Enforcement
   
153.75   Variances
   
153.76   Amendments
   
153.77   Plats Officer
   
153.78   Fees
 
   
153.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A public right-of-way primarily designed to secure as a secondary
access to the side or rear of those properties whose principal frontage is on
some other street.
   BENCH MARK. A definite point of known elevation and location and of more or
less permanent character.
   BLOCK. A tract of land bounded by streets, or by a combination of streets
and public parks, cemeteries, railroad right-of-ways, shorelines, school
properties or boundary lines of the city.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE. A line within a lot or other parcel of land so
designated on the recorded plat, between which a line and adjacent boundary of
the street the erection of a building is prohibited.
   CARTWAY. That portion of a street between the curbs and gutters which is
required to be paved and is intended for vehicular travel.
   CITY COUNCIL. The elected governing body of the city.
   CITY ENGINEER. The City Engineer appointed by the city.
   COUNTY. Jefferson County, Arkansas.
   COUNTY RECORDER. The Recorder of Jefferson County, Arkansas.
   CROSSWALK or PEDESTRIAN WAY. A right-of-way across or within a block, for
use by pedestrian traffic and may include utilities where necessary.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A street being no more than 500 feet in length with one end open
to traffic and being permanently terminated within the plat by a vehicular
turnaround.
   EASEMENT. A grant by the property owner for the use by the public, a
corporation, or persons of a strip of land for specific purposes.
   ENGINEER. A registered professional engineer in good standing in the State
of Arkansas, whose seal shall appear on all construction drawings and plans for
improvements.
   FLOOD PLAIN. A geographic area susceptible to periodic inundation from
overflow of natural waterways and determined as to extent by the U.S. Army
Corps of Engineers.
   FRONTAGE. That edge of a lot bordering a street.
   FRONTAGE ROAD. A street, parallel to and adjacent to a major highway or
thoroughfare, which provides access to abutting properties.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The Jefferson County Health Department and/or the State
of Arkansas Health Department.
   IMPROVEMENTS, PUBLIC. Any sanitary sewer, storm sewer, drainage ditch, water
main, fire hydrant, roadway, park, sidewalk, pedestrian way, open space,
planting strip, bridges and culverts, off-street parking facilities, or other
facilities for which the city and/or Jefferson County may ultimately assume the
responsibility for maintenance and operation.
   IMPROVEMENT PLANS. The engineering drawings showing types of materials and
construction details for the physical structures and facilities excluding
dwelling units to be installed in conjunction with the development of the
subdivision.
   LOT. A portion of a subdivision or other parcel of land with access to a
public street intended for transfer of ownership or for building development.
   LOT AREA. The total horizontal area within the boundaries of a lot exclusive
of any area designated for street purposes.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting upon two or more streets at their intersection.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot having frontage on two nonintersecting streets,
as distinguished from a corner lot.
   LOT SPLIT. A subdivision which involves the dividing or redesigning of an
existing lot or lots within a block of a recorded subdivision and which does
not involve the dedicating, vacating, widening, narrowing or change of
alignment of any thoroughfare, street, alley or easement.
   MASTER PLAN. A composite of the mapped and written proposals recommending
the physical development of the community which shall have been adopted by the
Planning Commission.
   PEDESTRIAN WAY. An easement or right-of-way dedicated to public use to
facilitate pedestrian access to adjacent streets and properties.
   PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE. Any security which may be accepted in lieu of a
requirement that certain improvements be made before the Planning Commission or
other approving body approves a final plat, including performance bonds by
subdivider or improvement contractors, escrow agreements, and other similar
collateral or surety agreements.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the city.
   PLAT. A map or chart indicating the subdivision or resubdivision of land
intended to be filed for record.
   PLAT, FINAL. A finished drawing showing completely and accurately all legal
and engineering information and certification necessary for recording, and
includes the bill of assurance.
   PLAT, PRELIMINARY. A drawing which shows the proposed layout of a
subdivision in sufficient detail to indicate unquestionably its workability in
all aspects, but is not in final form for recording and the details are not
completely computed.
   PLAT, SKETCH. An informal plan of the proposed subdivision to be submitted
by the developer during the preapplication process, the purpose being to
acquaint the developer with plans and policies relevant to the proposed
subdivision.
   PUBLIC OPEN SPACE. Land which may be dedicated or reserved for acquisition
for general use by the general public. It includes parks, parkways, recreation
areas.
   REPLAT. The combination or recombination of portions of previously platted
lots where the total number of lots is decreased or is not increased and which
does not involve the dedicating, vacating, widening, narrowing, or change of
alignment of any thoroughfare, street, alley, or easement.
   ROADWAY WIDTH OR SURFACE WIDTH. That portion of the street available for
vehicular traffic, and where curbs are laid, the portion between curbs.
   SLOPE. The rate of deviation of the ground surface from the horizontal
surface, as expressed in percentages.
   STREET/ROAD. A general term denoting a public or private thoroughfare which
affords the principal means of access to abutting property. The term includes
all facilities which normally occur within the right-of-way; it shall also
include such other designations as highway, thoroughfare, parkway, throughway,
road, pike, avenue, boulevard, lane, place, court, but shall not include a
pedestrian way.
   SUBDIVISION. A subdivision shall include all divisions of a tract or parcel
of land into one or more lots, building sites, or other divisions for the
purpose, whether immediate or future, for sale or building development, and
shall include all divisions of land involving the dedication of a new street or
a change in existing streets; provided however, that the following shall not be
included within this definition nor subject to the regulations authorized by
this part:
      (1)   The division of land into parcels greater than five acres where no
street right-of-way dedication is involved.
      (2)   The public acquisition by purchase or dedication of parcels of land
for the widening or opening of streets or other public improvements.
   SUBDIVISION, MINOR. Subdivisions of three lots or less which require no
physical improvements.
   SURVEYOR. A licensed state land surveyor or a registered public surveyor as
authorized by the state statutes to practice the profession of surveying in the
State of Arkansas.
   TERRITORIAL JURISDICTION. All land lying within the planning area of the
Planning Commission as prescribed by the Arkansas Statutes.
(Ord. 172, passed 6-8-87)
§ 153.02 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   This chapter is adopted for the following purposes:
      (1)   To promote the public health, safety and general welfare.
      (2)   To further the orderly layout and uses of land.
      (3)   To promote sound development to relate with existing anticipated
public and private development.
      (4)   To promote sound development through utilization of good design,
principles and standards.
      (5)   To avoid undue concentration of population and overcrowding.
      (6)   To lessen congestion in the streets and highways.
      (7)   To provide for adequate provisions for transportation, water,
sewerage, schools, parks, playground, churches, and other public requirements.
      (8)   To facilitate the further resubdivision of large tracts into small
parcels of land.
      (9)   To insure proper legal description and proper monuments of
subdivided land.
    (10)   To secure safety from fire, panic and other dangers.
    (11)   To provide for proper ingress (entrance) and egress (exit) to
properties and neighborhoods.
   (B)   These regulations are established with reasonable consideration for
the existing character of the city with a view toward conserving the value of
buildings upon the land and providing the best possible environment for human
habitation. It is intended that these regulations shall supplement and
facilitate the enforcement of the provisions and development contained in the
Comprehensive Plan and all elements thereon.
(Ord. 172, passed 6-8-87)
§ 153.03 AUTHORITY.
   These subdivision regulations are adopted in accordance with the authority
granted by Act 186 (as amended) of the 1957 General Assembly of the State of
Arkansas, being A.C. §§ 14-56-401 through 14-56-425.
(Ord. 172, passed 6-8-87)
§ 153.04 JURISDICTION.
   The territorial jurisdiction under these regulations shall include all that
area designated on the Official Planning Area Map as adopted by the Planning
Commission and City Council and filed with the Circuit Clerk-Recorder of
Jefferson County.
(Ord. 172, passed 6-8-87)
§ 153.05 COST OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The subdivider shall indicate on the plat, as hereinafter provided. If
such improvements are
not installed as required at the time the final plat is submitted for approval,
the subdivider shall, prior to receiving final plat approval from the Planning
Commission, enter into a contract with the city agreeing to install the
required improvements. The subdivider shall file with said contract a
performance bond meeting the approval of the City Attorney and/or a certified
check in the amount equal to the estimate of cost and approval by an appointed
City Engineer. Such bond or check shall constitute a guarantee that such
improvement will be completed by the subdivider or his contractor not later
than one year from the date of recording of the plat, and that repairs
necessitated by defects in material or workmanship will be made during the
period not to exceed one year from and after completion of such improvements.
   (B)   If the improvements are not completed or repairs are not made within
the specified time periods, the City Council may use all or any portion of the
check or bond to complete or repair the same. However, the City Council may,
upon proof of difficulty, extend the bonding time.
   (C)   If the subdivider installs the improvements without the posting of a
performance bond he shall also file a maintenance guaranteeing for a period not
to exceed two years the repairs necessary by defects in material or workmanship
of the improvements installed in the subdivision.
(Ord. 172, passed 6-8-87)
§ 153.06 PROVISIONS FOR ACQUISITION OF LAND FOR PUBLIC USE.
   (A)   Whenever a tract of land is to be subdivided, including proposed sites
for public uses as indicated on any of the following maps; official planning
area map, adopted land use map or master plan map, the land can either be
dedicated for public use, purchased or eminent domain procedures can be applied
by the appropriate public body. The subdivider, when filing a preliminary plat
with the Plats Officer, shall give the appropriate public body a 45-day period,
in which the aforementioned agency may express its interest in the proposed
subdivision in connection with the provision of public uses. Should such an
interest be expressed, the public body shall have a period of an additional 45
days within which to arrange for the acquisition of the property. If purchase
negotiations are not completed within a maximum of 90 days from the original
written notice sent to the appropriate public body, condemnation proceedings
must have been filed in the proper court by the public body. The condemnation
suit shall have the legal description as to the property to be condemned, or
the public body and/or city shall have no further claim and the effect shall be
as if the public body and/or city had never expressed any interest in the
property. This paragraph in no way shall be construed to mean public street
right-of-way.
   (B)   Historic sites, scenic areas, or areas of general community interest
for public or semi-public purposes may be considered for public purchase, as
provided in division (A) above.
(Ord. 172, passed 6-8-87)
§ 153.07 INTERPRETATION AND SEPARABILITY.
   (A)   Interpretation.
      (1)   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of these
regulations shall be held to be minimum requirements for the promotion of the
public health, safety, and general welfare.
      (2)   Where the conditions imposed by any provisions of these regulations
upon the subdivision of land are either more restrictive or less restrictive
than comparable conditions imposed by any other provisions of these regulations
or of any other applicable law, ordinance, resolution, rule, or regulation of
any kind, the regulations which are more restrictive and impose higher
standards or requirements shall govern.
      (3)   These regulations are not intended to abrogate any easement,
covenant, or any other private agreement, provided that where the regulations
of this resolution are more restrictive or impose higher standards or
regulations than such easements, covenants, or other private agreement, the
requirement of these regulations shall govern.
      (4)   No subdivision of land which was not lawfully existing at the time
of the adoption of these regulations shall be made lawful solely by reason of
the adoption of these regulations, and to the extent that said subdivision of
land is in conflict in any manner with the requirements of these regulations,
said subdivision of land remains unlawful hereunder.
   (B)   Separability. It is hereby declared to be the intention of the City
Council that the following provisions of these regulations be separable.
      (1)   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge any provisions
of these regulations to be invalid, such judgement shall not affect any other
provision of these regulations not specifically included in said judgement.
      (2)   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge invalid the
application of any provision of these regulations to be a particular
subdivision of land, such judgement shall not affect the application of said
provisions to any other subdivision of land, not specifically included in said
judgement.
(Ord. 172, passed 6-8-87)
PROCEDURE FOR PLAT APPROVAL
§ 153.20 PRELIMINARY CONSULTATION.
   Whenever a developer intends to develop land within the meaning of these
regulations and before
he prepares a preliminary plat, he shall request a pre-platting conference with
the Plats Officer and the Southeast Arkansas Regional Planning Commission staff
for the purpose of reviewing a sketch plat and applicable planning
requirements. Such pre-platting conference may be of assistance to the
developer through prevention of unnecessary expense in plat preparation.
   (A)   Sketch plat. The developer shall prepare a sketch plat of all the
property which is proposed for subdivision. The sketch plat may be free-hand
drawing superimposed upon a print of a site map or aerial photograph which
generally locates the following:
      (1)   Topography (Available USGS)
      (2)   Street pattern proposed
      (3)   Existing storm sewer, if any
      (4)   Existing sanitary sewer, if any
      (5)   Proposed land use designation
      (6)   Existing water course and flood plain
      (7)   Existing tree coverage
      (8)   Existing adjacent development
      (9)   Existing easement and covenants affecting land
    (10)   Any additional information the developer feels is pertinent.
   (B)   Tentative proposals. The developer shall indicate what tentative plans
have been made regarding water supply, sewerage disposal, surface drainage,
streetlight, and street improvements.
   (C)   Action by the Plats Officer.  The Plats Officer shall discuss the
proposed subdivision with the subdivider and advise him of procedural steps,
design and improvements, standards and general plat requirements, after which,
the Plats Officer shall proceed with the following investigation.
      (1)   Advise the developer of existing city and county plans which might
affect the proposed subdivision.
      (2)   Determine the adequacy of existing or proposed schools and other
public facilities which affect the proposed subdivision.
      (3)   Inspect the site or otherwise determine its relationship to major
streets, utilities systems and adjacent land use and determine any unusual
problems regarding topography, sewerage disposal, flooding, etc.
      (4)   Upon receipt of the letter of intent and official acknowledgement
of same, and upon certification by the Plat Officer that the discussions and
investigation have been completed, the Plats Officer shall authorize the
subdivider in writing to prepare and submit his tentative plat within 12 months
from the date the letter was sent.
(Ord. 172, passed 6-8-87)
§ 153.21 FILING OF PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   The subdivider shall prepare a preliminary plat of the proposed subdivision
in accordance with the requirements of this chapter, and shall file with the
Plats Officer an application in writing for the Preliminary Plat approval of
said plat, accompanied by seven blue print drawings of said plat and three
copies of the documents, plans and specifications meeting the requirements of
this chapter at least 20 days prior to the meeting of the Planning Commission.
   (A)   Action by the Plats Officer. The Plats Officer shall transmit copies
of the preliminary documents, plans and specifications to the city officials
and other agencies as deemed necessary by the Planning Commission for these
recommendations. These recommendations in respect thereto shall be submitted to
the Planning Commission not later than one week before the meeting at which the
preliminary plat will be reviewed.
   (B)   Action by the Planning Commission.
      (1)   A preliminary plat shall be reviewed by the Planning Commission to
determine its conformity to this chapter, the official plan, all other
ordinances and regulations in force which affect subdivisions.
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall within 45 days of the receipt of an
application for the approval of a preliminary plat, approve or disapprove the
plat, or approve it with modifications, noting thereon any changes that will be
required. If agreed to by the subdivider, the time may be extended for no more
than 60 days after which approval or disapproval, and the reason therefor, will
be stated by the Planning Commission.
      (3)   If the preliminary plat as originally submitted, or as changed or
modified as required by the Planning Commission, meets the requirements of this
chapter, the Planning Commission shall give its approval. If the preliminary
plat is disapproved, it shall be noted and it shall be returned to the
subdivider within seven days after the meeting. If it is approved, the
Chairman, Secretary, and Plats Officer shall affix their signatures to it with
the notation that it has received the Planning Commission's approval and then
be returned within seven days after the meeting to the subdivider for
compliance with final approval requirements.
      (4)   Preliminary approval by the Planning Commission shall give the
applicant the following rights for a 12-month period from the date of approval.
If the preliminary plat approval expires, the subdivider may request an
extension on his approved preliminary plat by submitting a letter to the
Planning Commission stating why he should be granted an extension.
         (a)   That the general terms and conditions under which the
preliminary approval was granted will not be changed by the Planning
Commission.
         (b)   The applicant may submit on or before the expiration date the
whole or part of the preliminary plat for final plat approval.
(Ord. 172, passed 6-8-87)
§ 153.22 FINAL PLAT.
   After approval of the preliminary plat, the improvements shall be installed
or a bond to cover the cost of the improvements shall be established. The
subdivider who wishes final plat approval shall file with the Plats Officer an
application in writing for final plat approval of said plat, accompanied with
one mylar and seven copies thereof which shall conform to the requirements of
this chapter. Also three copies of documents, specifications and building plans
shall be submitted to the Plats Officer. Said plats, documents, specifications
and plans shall be submitted to the Plats Officer at least 20 days prior to the
Planning Commission meeting.
   (A)   Filing of final plat. After he completes all improvements, or
guarantees by a bond to provide utilities and improvements to the satisfaction
of the city designated engineer and Planning Commission, the subdivider shall
file with the Plats Officer for final plat approval within 12 months of the
date of approval or conditional approval of the preliminary plat, unless such
period is extended by the Planning Commission.
   (B)   Action by the Planning Commission.
      (1)   Upon receipt thereof, the Planning Commission shall examine the
final plat and all necessary certificates to determine its conformance to the
preliminary plat and the requirements established in this chapter, and shall
within 30 days of its submission by the Plats Officer, unless the time is
extended by the Planning Commission in agreement with the developer, either
approve or disapprove said plat. If the final plat is disapproved it shall be
noted and it shall be returned to the subdivider.
      (2)   If the Planning Commission approves the final plat, such approval
and the date thereof shall be noted on the plat over the signature of the
Chairman of the Commission and the Plats Officer and the plat shall be
transmitted to the City Council for the necessary action on the final plat in
the acceptance of public dedication of land.
   (C)   Action by the City Council.
      (1)   The City Council shall approve or disapprove the public dedication
of land in the final plat within 30 days of its submission to the City Council.
If the public dedication is not accepted, it shall be noted and returned to the
subdivider.
      (2)   After the final plat has been approved by the City Council, Mayor
and City Clerk shall
sign the plat and the City Clerk shall submit a copy of the resolution
approving the plat to the Chairman of the Planning Commission.
   (D)   Action by the subdivider. Upon receipt of the final plat approval by
the City Council, the subdivider or his agent shall record the plat with the
Jefferson County Clerk's Office within 30 days of the date of the City Council
action.
(Ord. 172, passed 6-8-87)
§ 153.23 MINOR SUBDIVISIONS AND LOT SPLITS.
   Minor subdivisions and lot splits shall be processed for plat approval or
disapproval by the Plats Officer. The developer shall be required to fulfill
all regulations of this chapter that shall apply, with the exception of
approval by the Planning Commission. The Plats Officer shall confer with the
Chairperson of the Planning Commission concerning the developer's application.
   (A)   Action by the Plats Officer. The Plats Officer shall process minor
subdivisions and lot splits for plat approval or disapproval within 30 days of
the receipt of the required materials.
   (B)   Action by the City Council. The City Council shall approve or
disapprove the plat and any public dedication thereon within 30 days of its
submission to the City Council. After the plat has been approved, the Mayor and
City Clerk shall sign the plat, and the City Clerk shall submit a copy of the
resolution approving the plat to the Chairperson of the Planning Commission.
   (C)   Action by the subdivider. Upon receipt of the plat approval by the
City Council, the subdivider or his agent shall record the plat with the
Jefferson County Clerk's office within 30 days of the date of the City
Council's action.
(Ord. 172, passed 6-8-87)
§ 153.24 REPLATTING.
   The replat shall be processed for plat approval or disapproval by the Plats
Officer. The developer shall be required to fulfill all regulations of this
chapter that may be pertinent with the exception of approval by the Planning
Commission and the City Council. The Plats Officer shall approve or disapprove
the plat within 30 calendar days after its submission.
   (A)   Action by the Plats Officer. The Plats Officer shall process replats
for plat approval or disapproval within 30 days of the receipt of the required
materials.
   (B)   Action by the subdivider. Upon receipt of the plat approval by the
Plats Officer, the subdivider or his agent shall record the plat with the
Jefferson County Clerk's office within 30 days of the date of the City
Council's action.
(Ord. 172, passed 6-8-87)
PLATTING REQUIREMENTS
§ 153.35 SUBMISSION TO THE PLANNING COMMISSION OF PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   Every proposed subdivision shall be submitted to the Planning Commission by
the Plats Officer for preliminary or conditional approval in the form of a
preliminary plat prior to the submission of a final plat for recording. The
preliminary plat is not intended to be a final plat and must be prepared in
such form as not to be confused with a final plat. Its purpose is to show
graphically all facts needed to enable the Planning Commission and other public
agencies to determine whether the proposed layout of the land in question is
satisfactory from the standpoint of the public interest. The preliminary plat
shall be prepared by a qualified engineer, surveyor or land use planner. A
registered professional engineer of the State of Arkansas must be responsible
for the design of all public improvements.
(Ord. 172, passed 6-8-87)
§ 153.36 LETTER OF INTENT TO SUBDIVIDE.
   The owner or his agent shall file a letter declaring his intent to
subdivide, and this shall be accompanied by preliminary plat, documents, plans
and specifications.
(Ord. 172, passed 6-8-87) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.37 PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   Seven prints of the preliminary plat shall be submitted to the Plats
Officer. These may be blue lines or blue line prints at a scale of not more
than 100 feet to the inch, and shall show correctly on its face the following
information:
   (A)   Date, scale and north point.
   (B)   The proposed subdivision name (including city, county and state).
   (C)   The name and address of the owner, the subdivider and surveyor
responsible for surveys.
   (D)   The actual boundary survey and legal description, the acreage to be
subdivided, and the location of the subdivision by quarter section, township
and range.
   (E)   A detailed vicinity sketch or small scale drawing of the area within
which the subdivision lies, with the location of the subdivision, indicated
thereon.
   (F)   The exact length and bearing of the exterior boundaries of the
subdivision. Dimensions shall be expressed in feet and decimal of a foot.
   (G)   Location and names of adjacent subdivisions and the owners of adjacent
parcels of unsubdivided land.
   (H)   Location, width, and names of all existing and platted streets,
alleys, and other public ways and easements, railroad and utility right-of-way,
parks, cemeteries, watercourses, drainage ditches, permanent buildings,
bridges, and other pertinent information as determined by the Planning
Commission.
   (I)   The water elevation of adjoining lakes or streams at the date of the
survey and approximate high and low water elevations of such lakes and streams.
   (J)   If a major watercourse lies adjacent to or crosses the property it
shall be necessary for the registered engineer to submit cross sections,
drainage easements, building setback lines and supporting calculations based
upon the 100-year flood history.
   (K)   Layout, width, grades, and proposed names of all new streets and
rights-of-way, including alleys, highways, easements for sewer and water mains,
and other public utilities.
   (L)   Existing sewer, water mains, culverts, and other underground
structures within the tract or immediately adjacent thereto.
   (M) Plans of proposed utility layout (water, sewer and stormwater) showing
connections to any existing or proposed utilities system.
   (N)   Approximate location and area of all property proposed to be dedicated
or reserved for public use or to be reserved by deed covenant for use of all
property owners in the subdivision, with conditions, if any, of such dedication
or reservations.
   (O)   Approximate dimensions of areas of lots. All lots over one acre in
size shall have the area marked on them within the lot.
   (P)   Proposed setback lines.
   (Q)   Approximate radii of all curves, length of tangents, central angles of
all streets.
   (R)   Contours at vertical intervals of not more than two feet. In cases
where the land has less than 2% slope, spot elevation shall be required.
   (S)   Location and dimensions of all proposed water line and fire hydrants.
   (T)   Street sign locations.
   (U)   Street light locations.
   (V)   If the proposed subdivision is a portion of a tract which is later to
be subdivided in its entirety, then a tentative master plan of the entire
subdivision shall be submitted with the preliminary plat of the portion first
to be subdivided. The master plan shall conform in all respects to the
requirements of the sketch plat described.
   (W) Location and description of all section line corners and government
survey monuments in or near the subdivision to at least one of which the
proposed subdivision shall be referenced.
(Ord. 172, passed 6-8-87) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.38 REQUIRED INFORMATION TO ACCOMPANY PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   A summary of the proposal giving information as to the overall
development plan giving type of structure, number of dwelling units, types of
business and industry so that the effects of the development can be determined
by the board and the staff.
   (B)   Existing and proposed covenants and restrictions.
   (C)   Source of water supply.
   (D)   Provisions for sewage disposal, drainage, and flood control.
   (E)   Detailed sanitary sewer, storm sewer and water supply plans as deemed
appropriate by the Planning Commission. Three sets of plans shall be submitted.
   (F)   Letters or certificates of approval or disapproval from the county or
state agencies, as well as from the utility companies that are applicable. Such
material should be obtained and submitted by the subdivider.
   (G)   Typical cross-sections of all streets; centerline profiles of
approximate street grades derived from office computations may be required by
the staff if deemed advisable. Three sets of cross-sections and profile plans
shall be submitted.
   (H)   Where no sewers are available and the use of individual disposal
systems are required such systems shall be planned and installed in accordance
with the Arkansas State Department of Health Bureau of Environmental
Engineering Bulletin No. 9 (Revised 1969) or such regulations as may supplant
same, and copies of percolation tests, required by it, furnished to the board
if the Health Department can make them available at preliminary plat.
   (I)   Such other information as the subdivider wishes to bring to the
attention of the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 172, passed 6-8-87)
§ 153.39 QUALIFICATIONS GOVERNING APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   Approval of a preliminary plat is only tentative, pending submission
of the final plat.
   (B)   Approval of the preliminary plat does not constitute approval of
sewer, storm sewer water, or utility plans. The developer shall be responsible
for obtaining approval of these systems from the appropriate agencies as
follows:
      (1)   Streets and drainage - Planning Commission.
      (2)   Extension of water and sewer lines - City Water and Sewer
Commission.
      (3)   Private utilities - utility companies.
   (C)   Receipt by the developer of the executed Certificate of Preliminary
Plat Approval is authorization to proceed with:
      (1)   The installation of any improvements required as approved by
agencies having authority, or the posting of a performance bond in accordance
with this chapter.
      (2)   The preparation of the final plat or part thereof as specified in
accordance with this chapter.
(Ord. 172, passed 6-8-87)
§ 153.40 CERTIFICATION OF PRELIMINARY PLATS AND PLANS.
   (A)   Preliminary surveyor's certificate.
   I hereby certify that this proposed Preliminary Plat correctly represents a
survey completed by me, or under my supervision, on                     ,
19     ; that the boundary lines shown hereon corresponds with the description
in the deeds cited in the above Source of Title; and that all monuments found
or placed on the property are correctly described and located.
                                                                             
         Date of Execution   Name
   Registered Land Surveyor
   No. State of Arkansas
   (B)   Preliminary engineering certificate. (If engineering data is deemed
necessary by the Commission).
   These proposed plans and specifications were completed by me or under my
supervision on                      , 19  .
                                                                             
         Date of Execution   Name
   Registered Land Surveyor
   No. State of Arkansas
   (C)   Certificate of Planning Commission approval.
   This plat has been given Preliminary Plat approval in accordance with the
White Hall Subdivision Ordinance the     day of               19   .
                                                                             
         Attest: Secretary   Chairman
   (D)   Certificate of Plats Officer's approval.
   All requirements of the White Hall Subdivision Ordinance relative to the
preparation and submittal of a preliminary plat have been met and approval of
said Plat has been granted by the Planning Commission.
                                                                             
         Date of Execution   Plats Officer
(Ord. 172, passed 6-8-87)
§ 153.41 CONSTITUTION OF FINAL PLAT.
   A final plat may constitute all or a portion of the approved preliminary
plat. A final plat may constitute only a portion of the area contained in the
approved preliminary plat provided that the public improvements constructed or
to be constructed by bond in the area covered by the plat are sufficient by and
of themselves to accomplish a proper development and to provide adequately for
the health, safety and convenience of the proposed residents therein and for
adequate access to contiguous areas.
(Ord. 172, passed 6-8-87)
§ 153.42 LETTER OF INTENT TO OBTAIN FINAL PLAT APPROVAL.
   The owner or his agent shall file a letter declaring his intent to obtain
final plat approval and this shall be accompanied by the final plat, documents
and building plans and specifications.
(Ord. 172, passed 6-8-87)
§ 153.43 FINAL PLAT INFORMATION.
   The final plat shall be drawn to scale with waterproof non-fading black ink,
at a scale of not more than 100 feet to the inch, on mylar 24 inches wide by 36
inches long. When more than one sheet is used for any plat, each sheet shall be
numbered consecutively and shall contain a notation giving the total number of
sheets in the plat and showing the relationship of that sheet to the other
sheets, and each sheet shall bear the name of the subdivision. Each plat shall
show correctly on its face the following information:
   (A)   Date, scale and north point.
   (B)   Name (including city, county and state).
   (C)   The exterior boundaries of the land surveyed and divided.
   (D)   All monuments erected, corners and other points established in the
field in the proper place. The material of which the monuments, corners or
other points are made shall be noted at the representation thereof or by
legend, except that the lot corners need not be shown. The legend, for metal
monuments shall indicate the kind of metal, diameter, and length.
   (E)   The exact length and bearing of the exterior boundaries, the boundary
line of all blocks, public grounds, streets and alleys, and all lot lines,
except that when the lines in any tier of lots are parallel, it shall be
sufficient to make the bearing of the outer lines on one tier thereof.
Easements shall be shown by center line and width when lines are parallel to
lot lines.
   (F)   Boundary bearings and distances shall be shown by center lines and
width when lines are parallel to a boundary, otherwise boundary bearings and
distances shall be shown.
   (G)   Blocks, if designated, shall be consecutively numbered. The blocks in
numbered additions to subdivisions bearing the same name shall be numbered
consecutively through the several additions.
   (H)   The length of boundary lines of all streets, alleys, blocks, lots,
parcels, public grounds, easements, and right-of-ways or enough information so
that the length of these lines can be derived by simple calculation. Where a
boundary line is an arc of a circle, the length of the chord shall be shown.
   (I)   The widths of all streets, alleys, easements and rights-of-way.
   (J)   A graphic presentation of the minimum building setback lines on all
lots and parcels and a notation of the distance between such lines and the
street right-of-way line.
   (K)   The area of each lot or parcel containing an area of more than an
acre.
   (L)   The words “Private Road” clearly marked on all streets shown on the
plat which are not dedicated to public use.
(M)   Abutting street lines of adjoining subdivisions shown in their correct
location by dashed lines.
   (N)   The exact width of all easements, streets and alleys.
   (O)   All lakes or stream shore meander lines established by the surveyor in
accordance with this chapter, the distance between the distance of the bearing
thereof and the distance between the point of intersection of such meander
lines with lot lines and the ordinary high water mark.
   (P)   The number of degrees and minutes in all exterior boundary and block
angles. When such angle show shall be that between tangent and the main chord
of the curve. When between curves of different radii, the angle between the
main chord.
   (Q)   Exact boundary lines of the tract indicated by a heavy line, or other
acceptable control traverse, giving dimensions to the nearest 1/10 foot and
angles to the nearest minute, which shall be balanced and closed with an error
of closure not to exceed one to 5,000.
   (R)   All interior excepted parcels shall be clearly indicated and labeled
“Not a Part of this Plat.”
   (S)   The location of the subdivision by quarter section, township, range
and county noted immediately under the name given the subdivision.
   (T)   The exact location of the subdivision, indicated by distance bearings
with reference to a corner or corners established in the United State public
land survey.
   (U)   The names of adjoining streets, state highways and subdivisions shown
in their proper location underscored by a dotted line.
   (V)   Abutting street and state highway lines of adjoining plats shown in
their proper location by dotted lines. The width of these streets and highways
shall be given also.
   (W) Roads and public spaces.
      (1)   The name of each road or street in the plat shall be printed
therein in prominent letters.
      (2)   All lands dedicated to public use except roads and streets shall be
marked “Dedicated to the Public.”
      (3)   All roads and streets not dedicated to the public shall be marked
on plat “Private Road.”
      (4)   Each lot within the plat must have access to a public or private
street or road.
   (X)   Site conditions and topography.
      (1)   All existing buildings.
      (2)   All watercourses, drainage ditches, and other existing features
pertinent to proper subdivision.
      (3)   The water elevation of adjoining lakes, rivers, or streams at the
date of the survey.
      (4)   First floor elevation a minimum of one foot above the 100-year
flood history for all property adjacent to major water courses.
(Ord. 172, passed 6-8-87)
§ 153.44 REQUIRED INFORMATION TO ACCOMPANY FINAL PLAT.
   Final plat shall be accompanied by the following documents, plans and
specifications:
   (A)   Covenants and restrictions.
   (B)   As built plans for the following:
      (1)   Streets.
      (2)   Storm sewer.
      (3)   Sanitary sewer
      (4)   Water.
   (C)   Certification of approved water supply and sanitary sewage disposal by
the appropriate agency when not connected to a municipal system.
(Ord. 172, passed 6-8-87)
§ 153.45 CERTIFICATION OF FINAL PLAT.
   To entitle a final plat to be entered in the proper records in the Office of
the Circuit Clerk and Recorder of Jefferson County the following certificates
together with the certificate of approval of the City Council shall accompany
it. These certificates shall be lettered or printed legibly on the face of the
final plat. The following certificates and affidavits shall appear on the final
plat. They must be duly signed by the appropriate persons before the plat can
be recorded:
   (A)   Certification by the surveyor.
   I hereby certify that, at the request of the owner, I have surveyed and
subdivided according to the owner's Plat                           of
Subdivision; a part of the                             principal meridian,
bounded and described as follows: (Legal Description)  .
   Given under my hand and seal this            day of               , 19   .
                                         
   Surveyor
   Registered Land Surveyor No.
   State of Arkansas
   (B)   Certification of dedication by owner.
   As owner, I hereby certify that I have caused the land described in the
foregoing affidavit of the surveyor, to be surveyed, divided and mapped as
presented on this plat. All streets, alleys, walkways, parks, open-space,
playgrounds and school sites shown on this plat are hereby dedicated to the
public for public purposes, and all easements shown are subject to easement
provisions herein.
                                      
   Owner
   (C)   Certification by Notary Public.
   I                                 , a Notary Public in and for the County of
                    , in the State of                      , do hereby certify
that                                personally known to me this day in person
and acknowledged that he (they) signed, sealed and delivered said instrument as
his (their) own free will and accord for the use and purposes therein set
forth.
   Given under my hand and National Seal this       day of               ,
19    .
      My commission expires                     .
   (D)   Easement provisions. An easement is hereby reserved for and granted
governmental bodies and other public utilities and their respective successor
and assigns within the area as shown by dotted lines on the plat and marked
“Easement,” to install, lay, construct, renew, operate and maintain storm and
sanitary sewers, pipes, conduits, cables, poles and wires, overhead and
underground with all necessary braces, guys, anchors and equipment for the
purpose of servicing the subdivision and other property with telephone,
electric and other utility service; also is hereby granted the right to use the
streets for said purpose, the right to overhang lots with aerial service wires
to serve adjacent lots, the right to enter upon the lots at all times to
install, lay, construct, renew, operate and maintain within the said easement
area said storm and sanitary sewers, pipes, conduits cables, poles, wires,
braces, guys, anchors and other equipment for the purpose of serving the
subdivision and other property with
telephone, electric and other utility service; and finally the right is hereby
granted to cut down and remove or trim and keep trimmed any trees, shrubs or
saplings that interfere or threaten to interfere with any of the said public
utility equipment installed on said easement, but same may be used for gardens,
shrubs, landscaping and other purposes that do not then or later interfere with
the aforesaid uses or the right therein granted.
   (E)   Certification by the Planning Commission.
   This is to certify that the White Hall Planning Commission did at its
meeting on the            day of                , 19    , approve the plat and
forward it to the City Council.
                                                                             
         Chairman   Secretary
   (F)   Certification by the City Council of White Hall.
   This is to certify that the White Hall City Council did, at its meeting on
the       day of
                , 19   , approve the plat and forward it to the City Council.
                                            ATTEST:
                                     
         Mayor   City Clerk-Treasurer
   (G)   Certification by the Plats Officer.
   Having received the conditions of the Planning Commission and finding
substantial conformity with all pertinent laws and rules and regulations
included in this chapter, and the preliminary plat, the plat is given final
plat approval this     day of              , 19   
                              
Plats Officer
   (H)   Certification by Circuit Clerk and Recorder.
   I, Circuit Clerk and Recorder of Jefferson County, Arkansas, do hereby
certify that the within plat was filed in my office at      o'clock a.m., this
       day of                   , 19      and the same is duly recorded in Plat
Book      , Page      .
                                                 
   Circuit Clerk and Recorder
(Ord. 172, passed 6-8-87)
§ 153.46 MINOR SUBDIVISIONS AND LOT SPLITS.
   (A)   The owner or his agent shall file a letter declaring his intent to
obtain minor subdivisions or lot split approval. This shall be accompanied by
the plat and other required documents.
   (B)   The plat shall be drawn and show the same information as final plat
specifications, §
153.43.
   (C)   The plat shall be accompanied by covenants and restrictions and
certification of approved water supply and sanitary sewage disposal by the
appropriate agency when not connected to a municipal system.
   (D)   To record the plat, the certifications stated in §
153.45 will apply except for §
153.45(E) and (G). These certifications will be replaced by the following:
Certification by Plats Officer.
Having found substantial conformity with all pertinent laws rules and
regulations included in this chapter and the plat, the plat is given final
approval this      day of               , 19   .
                            
      Plats Officer
(Ord. 172, passed 6-8-87)
§ 153.47 REPLATTING.
   (A)   The owner or his agent shall file a letter declaring his intent to
obtain a replat. This shall be accompanied by the plat and other required
documents.
   (B)   The plat shall be drawn and show the same information as final plat
specifications, §
153.43.
   (C)   The plat shall be accompanied by covenants and restrictions and
certification of approved water supply and sanitary sewage disposal by the
appropriate agency when not connected to a municipal system.
   (D)   To record the plat the following certificates shall be lettered or
printed legibly on the face of the final plat. They must be duly signed by the
appropriate persons before the plat can be recorded.
      (1)   Certification by the Surveyor.
   I hereby certify that, at the request of the owner, I have surveyed and
subdivided according to the owner's Plat                                     of
Subdivision; a part of the                             . Principal meridian,
bounded and described as follows:
   (Legal Description)
   Given under my hand and seal this       day of                , 19   .
                                                
   Surveyor
   Registered Land Surveyor No.
   State of Arkansas
      (2)   Certification by Notary Public.
   I                      , a Notary Public in and for County of
                    , in the state of               , do hereby certify that
                       personally known to me this day in person and
acknowledged that he (they) signed, sealed and delivered said instrument as his
(their) own free will and accord for the use and purposes therein set forth.
   Given under my hand and National Seal this      day of              , 19   .
      (3)   Certification by the Plats Officer.
   Having found substantial conformity with all pertinent laws and rules and
regulations included in this chapter and the replat, the replat is given final
approval this       day of                      , 19   .
                                           
         Plats Officer
      (4)   Certification by Circuit Clerk and Recorder.
   I, Circuit Clerk and Recorder of Jefferson County, Arkansas, do hereby
certify that the within plat was filed in my office at        o'clock a.m.,
this      day of                   , 19    and the same is duly recorded in
Plat Book      , Page      .
                                                  
   Circuit Clerk and Recorder
(Ord. 172, passed 6-8-87)
DESIGN STANDARDS AND CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS
§ 153.60 CONFORMANCE TO RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   In addition to the design standards established herein, all subdivision
plats shall comply with the following laws, ordinances, rules and regulations.
   (A)   The city and all other applicable ordinances of the appropriate
jurisdictions.
   (B)   The Comprehensive Plan and all other elements thereof, Official Master
Street Plan and Land Use Plan of the city or any portions thereof and Master
Drainage Plan, when and if adopted by the city.
   (C)   The special requirements of this chapter and any rules of the County
Health Department and the Arkansas State Health Department in relation to lot
size and lot elevation if the subdivision is not served by public water or by a
public sewer and provision for one or both of these services has not been made.
   (D)   The rules of the Arkansas Highway and Transportation Department
relating to safety of access and the preservation of the public interest and
investment in the streets if the subdivision or any lot contained therein abuts
a state highway.
(Ord. 172, passed 6-8-87)
§ 153.61 STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   (A)   General consideration.
      (1)   The location, width on all highways, roads and streets shall
conform to the Master Street Plan. Proposed street systems shall extend
existing streets on projections at the same or greater width, but in no case
shall be less than the required minimum standards.
      (2)   Streets shall be designed and located in relation to existing and
planned streets, to topographical conditions and natural terrain features such
as streams and existing tree growth, to public conveniences and safety, and in
appropriate relation to the proposed use of land to be served by such streets.
      (3)   To allow for the orderly transition from its rural character to an
effective urban system both “urban” and “rural” design and improvement
standards are provided in this chapter. All streets and highways are to be
developed to urban standards within one mile of the city limits or as
determined by the Planning Commission otherwise. The city has the
responsibility of determining the construction and design standards applicable
to any and all segments of the city street system and those within the planning
area, since public improvements such as water, sewage disposal, drainage,
street reconstruction, sidewalk installation along with other utilities and
traffic improvements may eventually be undertaken and financed from public tax
sources.
      (4)   It shall be the subdivider's responsibility to initiate any request
for exception to the urban street improvement standards and show cause why the
rural standards are applicable in his particular case. Only in extreme cases
shall the Planning Commission waive the urban standard when the subdivision is
within one mile of the city limits.
   (B)   Arrangements.
      (1)   All streets shall be properly integrated with the existing and
proposed system of thoroughfares and dedicated right-of-ways as established by
the Master Street Plan for the city.
      (2)   All thoroughfares shall be properly related to special traffic
generators such as industries, business areas, schools, churches and shopping
centers and to population densities and the pattern of existing and proposed
land uses.
      (3)   Minor streets shall be laid out to conform as much as possible
to the topography, to discourage use by through traffic, to permit efficient
drainage and utility systems, and to require the minimum number of streets
necessary to provide convenient, safe access to property.
      (4)   The rigid rectangular gridiron street pattern need not necessarily
be adhered to, and the use of curvilinear streets, cul-de-sacs, or U shaped
streets shall be encouraged where such use will result in more desirable
layout.
      (5)   Proposed streets shall be extended to the boundary lines of the
tract to be subdivided unless prevented by topography or other physical
conditions, or unless in the opinion of the Planning Commission such an
extension is not necessary or desirable for the coordination of the layout of
the subdivision with the existing layout or the most advantageous future
development of adjacent tracts.
      (6)   In business and industrial development, the street and other access
ways shall be planned in connection with the grouping of buildings, location of
rail facilities, and the provisions of alleys, truck loading and maneuvering
areas, fire protection and walks and parking areas so as to minimize conflicts
of movement between the various types of traffic, including pedestrian.
   (C)   Access to arterial streets. Where a subdivision borders or contains an
existing or proposed arterial street, the Planning Commission may require that
access to such streets be limited by one of the following means.
      (1)   The subdivision of lots so as to back onto the arterial street and
front onto parallel local street, no access shall be provided from the arterial
street.
      (2)   A series of cul-de-sacs, U-shaped streets, or short loops entered
from and designed generally at right angles to such a parallel street, with the
rear lines of their terminal lots backing onto the arterial street.
      (3)   The number of residential streets entering an arterial shall be
kept to a minimum.
   (D)   Street and road standards.
      (1)   Urban-rural streets. All streets or streets where the majority of
lots have 125 feet or less at the front building line and have less than 25,000
square feet shall be considered urban streets and require that curb and gutter
be installed.
      (2)   Minor residential streets. The following minimum standards shall
apply to the design of minor residential streets.
 
               Urban    Rural
Right-of-way   50 feet  50 feet
Pavement width 27 feet  22 feet
Type of curb   Vertical N/A
Sidewalk width 4 feet   N/A
Design speed   30       30
 
      (3)   Residential collector streets. The following minimum standards
shall apply tot he design of the residential collector streets.
 
              Urban    Rural
Right-of-way   70 feet  70 feet
Pavement width 35 feet  32 feet
Type of curb   Vertical N/A
Sidewalk width 4 feet   N/A
Design speed   35       35
 
      (4)   Business and industrial collector and minor arterial streets. The
following minimum standards shall apply to the design of business and
industrial collector and minor arterial streets.
 
               Urban    Rural
Right-of-way   70 feet  70 feet
Pavement width 47 feet  44 feet
Type of curb   Vertical N/A
Sidewalk width 5 feet   N/A
Design speed   35 - 40  35 - 40
 
      (5)   Arterial streets. The following minimum standards shall apply to
the design of arterial streets.
 
               Urban    Rural
Right-of-way   90 feet  90 feet
Pavement width 51 feet  48 feet
Type of curb   Vertical N/A
Sidewalk width 5 feet   N/A
Design speed   40 - 45  40 - 45
 
      (6)   Street grades. The grade of collector and arterial streets shall
not exceed 5% unless necessitated by exceptional topography and approved by the
Planning Commission. The grade of all other streets shall not exceed 7%. The
minimum grade of all streets shall be 0.4%. Sidewalks and pedestrian-ways shall
not exceed 12% unless steps of an approved design are to be used.
      (7)   Tangents. A tangent at least 100 feet in length shall be introduced
between reverse curves on collector and arterial streets.
      (8)   Cul-de-sacs, dead-end streets, stub streets.
         (a)   Cul-de-sacs.
            1.   A cul-de-sac shall not be longer than 500 feet.
            2.   The diameter of a cul-de-sac turn-around (measured at the
outside of right-of-way) shall not be less than 100 feet.
            3.   The pavement width of the cul-de-sac turn-around shall be 25
feet radius from the center point of the street.
         (b)   Stub street.
            1.   Stub streets are streets that are designed to provide future
connections with unsubdivided adjacent land and shall be improved to the limits
of the subdivision plat.
            2.   Stub streets exceeding 300 feet in length as measured from the
street intersection to the property line of the subdivision shall contain a
turn-around at its terminus that meets the turn- around and pavement
requirements of a cul-de-sac.
      (9)   Half-streets. Street systems in new subdivisions shall be laid out
so as to eliminate or avoid half streets. Where a new subdivision abuts an
existing street of inadequate right-of-way width, additional right-of-way width
may be required to be dedicated by the subdivider. The Planning Commission
shall determine any improvements deemed necessary concerning half streets or
substandard existing streets.
    (10)   Street intersections.
         (a)   Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as nearly as
possible at right angles. A proposed intersection of two new streets at an
angle of less than 70 degrees shall not be acceptable. Not more than two
streets shall intersect at any one point.
         (b)   Proposed new intersections along one side of an existing street
shall wherever practicable, coincide with any existing intersection on the
opposite side of such streets. Street jogs with center line offsets of less
than 125 feet shall not be permitted.
         (c)   Where the grade of any street at the approach of an intersection
exceeds 7%, a leveling area shall be provided having not greater than 4% grade
a distance of 25 feet, measured from the nearest right-of-way line of street
intersection.
         (d)   Where any street intersection will involve earth banks of
existing vegetation inside any lot corner that would create a traffic hazard by
limiting visibility, the developer shall cut such ground and/or vegetation
(including trees) in connection with the grading of the public right-of-way to
the extent deemed necessary to provide an adequate sight distance.
    (11)   Street curves. Curves in streets shall have a radius adequate to
insure sight distances sufficient to permit a driver to stop safely.
    (12)   Subdivision with arterial streets. Where a subdivision abuts or
contains an arterial street, the Planning Commission may require such
improvements as may be necessary for adequate protection of residential
properties and to afford separation of through and local traffic. These
improvements may include, but are not necessarily limited to, marginal access
streets, reverse frontage with screen planting contained in a non-access
reservation along the rear property line, and deep lots with rear service
alleys.
    (13)   Street names. All street names are to be approved by the Planning
Commission prior to final plat approval. No street names shall be used which
will duplicate or be confused with names of existing streets. New streets which
are extensions of or obviously in alignment with existing streets shall bear
the name of the existing street.
    (14)   Street signs. The design, shape, size and color are to be determined
by the Planning Commission and are to be placed at all intersections within or
abutting the subdivision. The location is to be approved by the Planning
Commission.
    (15)   Street lights. The design, shape, size, and lumination are to be
determined by the Planning Commission and are to be placed within or abutting
the subdivision. The location is to be approved by the Planning Commission.
    (16)   Street paving, curb and gutters.
         (a)   Street minimum construction standards - urban and rural streets.
            1.   Asphalt, hot mix-hot laid, two inches thick, laid on six
inches of compacted soil cement, and primed with MCO primer, and shall be
placed on subgrade with all unsuitable material removed and a minimum
compaction using the modified proctor method - subgrade 95%, base 100%, and
surface 93%.
            2.   Asphalt, hot mix-hot laid, two inches thick, laid on an eight-
inch stabilized aggregate subgrade, and primed with MCO primer. The aggregate
base shall weather from November 1 through April 30 and have as a minimum
compaction using the modified proctor method subgrade 95%, base 100%, and
surface 93%.
            3.   Two inches of asphaltic concrete hot mix surface course and
compacted crushed stone base placed on compacted subgrade. The base course
shall be eight inches of material conforming to the current Arkansas State
Highway specifications, base course material, designation SB-2 or GB-3, and
shall be placed on subgrade with all unsuitable material removed and with a
minimum compaction using the modified proctor method - subgrade 95%, base 100%,
and surface 93%.
            4.   Concrete, laid six inches thick, with 3,000 pounds strength
and shall be placed on subgrade with all unsuitable material removed and with a
minimum compaction using the modified proctor method - subgrade 95%, base 100%,
and surface 93%.
            5.   On arterial streets three inches of asphalt hot mix laid shall
be required in the place of two inches.
            6.   On arterial streets eight inches of concrete laid shall be
required in the place of six inches.
         (b)   Curb and gutter and swale minimum construction standards - urban
streets.
            1.   Curb and gutter for asphalt streets. Concrete curb and gutter
for asphalt streets shall have a back height of not less than 14 inches, a base
width of not less than 24 inches, face of curb height of six inches, and a
gutter width of 18 inches.
            2.   Curb and gutter for concrete streets. In the event the sub-
divider elects to construct concrete streets, then the thickness of the face of
the gutter can be reached to conform with the actual pavement thickness as
defined, such as, if five inches of Portland concrete pavement is constructed,
the face of the gutter may be reduced from eight inches to five inches in
thickness.
            3.   Roll-type concrete curb and gutter.  Roll-type concrete curb
and gutter on streets where this type of construction is permitted shall be
identical in all dimensions to the curb and gutter as set out in 1. and 2.
above, except the intersection of the gutter and face of the curb shall be
constructed with a radius of approximately 12 inches to 15 inches.
            4.   Concrete drainage swales. Concrete drainage swales of not less
than four feet in width minimum, formed to grade, shall be constructed across
those intersections where it is necessary to transfer water from one side of
the intersection to the other. The thickness shall be equal to the pavement
thickness. The concrete swale shall be placed along a line drawn straight
across the intersection. On concrete street construction, the swale shall be
shaped and separated by expansion joints.
            5.   If possible, the top of the curb shall be set a minimum of 12
inches below the ground elevation at the planned building setback line to
ensure adequate drainage.
         (c)   Construction inspection.
            1.   Sub-base (or subgrade).
               A.   After the proposed grading has been completed, with the
necessary cuts or fills completed, the sub-base shall be thoroughly and
adequately compacted to the minimum requirements. The area under the proposed
pavement shall be tested, and a copy of these test results presented to the
City Operation Supervisor.
               B.   Where construction shows soil types other than those
anticipated by the developer's engineer, the City Operation Supervisor shall
require detailed pavement design data including soil investigations by the
developer's engineer and any other tests deemed necessary to ensure that a
satisfactory sub-base can and will be constructed.
               C.   The City Operation Supervisor will visit the site and meet
with the developer and his engineer when all testing requirements have been met
to approve the sub-base.
               D.   After approval of the sub-base, the developer shall proceed
to construct the base course, where required. If the base course is required
(under hot-mix asphalt concrete surface), the developer shall have the
compacted base course tested and shall present the testing results to the City
Operation Supervisor for approval prior to placement of the surface course.
               E.   The minimum number of tests on both sub-base and base shall
be determined by the City Operation Supervisor and the developer's engineer.
However, in no case shall that number be less than three for any section of
street. All testing shall be performed by a qualified, independent laboratory,
and the cost of such testing shall be at the expense of the developer.
               F.   After the base course has been approved, the surface course
shall then be placed. The specific material requirements and construction
procedures for all street construction shall be in accordance with the latest
edition of the Standard Specifications of Highway Construction published by the
Arkansas State Highway Commission. A copy of these specifications may be
obtained from the Arkansas State Highway and Transportation Department, Little
Rock, Arkansas.
            2.   Placement of the surface course, plugs or core samples shall
be taken at intervals to be determined by the City Operation Supervisor and the
developer's engineer. These plugs shall reflect both the thickness and the
density of the surface course and shall be tested for both by an approved
independent laboratory. The results of those tests shall determine the
acceptability of the surface.
    (17)   Curb cuts. The location and design of access points (driveways)
along city streets shall be in accordance with the city's curb cut policy (when
adopted).
    (18)   Storm sewers. The storm water drainage system shall be separate and
independent of any sanitary sewer system. Storm sewers shall be designed by the
rational method, and a copy of the design computations shall be submitted along
with the plans. Inlets shall be provided so that surface water is not carried
across or around any intersection in the gutter.
   (E)   Easements.
      (1)   In all new residential subdivisions, all utilities, cable T.V.,
electrical and telephone distribution systems or any other commercial service
shall be laid underground, including storm, water, gas, drainage and sewer. It
shall be the subdivider's responsibility to initiate any request for exception
to the laying of underground utilities.
      (2)   Easements for electrical and telephone service shall be a minimum
of five feet wide and be established at the front and along other such lot
lines as to provide continuity of alignment from block to block; to be
installed underground within easements of public dedication. Pole position for
each street light to be served from underground street light supply lines
should be designated on the plat and necessary easements provide to furnish
access to such position.
      (3)   Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainage way,
channel or stream, there shall be provided a storm water easement or drainage
right-of-way conforming substantially to the line of such watercourse and of
such width or construction or both as will be adequate for the purposes (20
foot minimum width). Wherever possible, it is desirable that the drainage be
maintained by an open channel with landscaped banks and adequate width for
minimum potential volume of flow.
   (F)   Blocks.
      (1)   Blocks shall have sufficient width to provide for two tiers of lots
of appropriate depths. Exceptions of this prescribed block width shall be
permitted in blocks adjacent to major streets, railroads, or waterways.
      (2)   The lengths, widths, and shapes of blocks shall be such as are
appropriate for the locality and the type of development contemplated, but
block length in residential areas shall not exceed 2000 feet, or be less than
500 feet in length. Wherever practicable, blocks along major arterial and
collector streets shall not be less than 1000 feet in length.
      (3)   Pedestrian ways or crosswalks, not less than ten feet wide, may be
required by the Planning Commission through the center of blocks more than 800
feet long where deemed essential to provide circulation or access to schools,
playgrounds, shopping centers, transportation, or other community facilities.
   (G)   Lots.
      (1)   In general, the size, shape and orientation of lots shall be
appropriate for the location of the subdivision and for the type of development
and use contemplated. No lot shall be more than four times as deep as it is
wide.
      (2)   Residential lots where served by public water and sewer shall not
be less than 75 feet wide at the building setback line nor less than 9,600
square feet. Commercial and industrial lots where served by public water and
sewer shall not be less than 100 feet wide at the building setback line nor
less than 20,000 square feet.
      (3)   For reasons of health and sanitation, the density of residential
subdivisions shall be directly related to the availability of public water and
sewer. Lots not served by either or both private water or sewerage facilities
shall comply with the rules of the Jefferson County Health Department and
Arkansas Department of Health.
   (H)   Depth and width. Depth and width of properties reserved or laid out
for business, commercial, or industrial purpose shall be adequate to provide
for the off-street parking and loading facilities required for the type of use
and development contemplated for.
   (I)   Access to public street. Every lot shall front on or abut a public
street. Lots with access only to private drives and streets shall be permitted
only with the variance approval of the Planning Commission.
   (J)   Drainage. Lots shall be laid out so as to provide positive drainage
away from all buildings, and individual lot drainage shall be coordinated with
the general storm drainage pattern for the area. Drainage shall be designed so
as to avoid concentration of storm drainage water from each lot to adjacent
lot.
   (K)   Lot lines. Side lot lines shall be approximately at right angles
radial to street lines.
   (L)   Corner lots. Corner lots for residential use shall have extra width to
permit appropriate building setback from or orientation to both streets. Lots
on major street intersections and at all other points likely to be dangerous
shall have a radius of not less than 25 feet at the street corner.
(M)   Double frontage and reversed frontage lots. Double frontage and reversed
frontage lots shall be avoided except where necessary to provide separation of
residential development from arterial streets, or to overcome specific
disadvantage of topography and orientation.
(Ord. 172, passed 6-8-87; Am. Ord. 286, passed 2-22-00)
§ 153.62 SEWER AND WATER SYSTEMS.
   (A)    Sewage collection and treatment system.
      (1)   All subdivisions shall be provided with an approved sewage
collection and treatment system, as approved by the Jefferson County Health
Department.
      (2)   Connection with the city sanitary sewer system shall be required
except where the Planning Commission determines that such connection will
require unreasonable expenditure when compared with other methods of sewage
disposal.
      (3)   When septic tanks are permitted, the subdivider shall conduct
percolation tests in accordance with requirements of the State Department of
Health in order to determine the adequacy of proposed lot size and the soil.
      (4)   If a sanitary sewage treatment system is to be installed, the plans
for such system shall be approved by the State Department of Health prior to
approval of the final plat by the Planning
Commission.
      (5)   The sewage collection system shall be designed to handle the
anticipated flow from within the subdivision, including development of future
sections of the same subdivision. Recognized engineering design criteria in
accordance with the requirements of the State Department of Health shall be
used to design the system.
      (6)   The minimum size line, excluding house service lines, shall be
eight inches in diameter.
      (7)   Manholes shall not be spaced more than 400 feet apart and shall be
provided at all changes in grade, direction, and pipe size.
      (8)   The city may require larger sewer lines than are necessary to serve
the subdivision and future development of the same subdivision in order to
provide for future development of the area. In the event that said larger lines
are required, then the developer may be entitled to participating aid from the
city on said over-sized lines in accordance with the sewer policy of the city.
      (9)   Where a public water supply is not available, or a public sanitary
sewer is not accessible, a certificate or letter from the County Health
Department shall be presented showing the results of percolation tests for
septic tanks and a statement as to the ability of soil to absorb water. The
statement must set out that septic tanks meet the requirements of the County
Health Department. The letter shall also state the County Health Department's
recommendation as to the approximate recommended depth of wells, if known. If
unknown, the subdivider shall sink a test well to enable the County Health
Officer to evaluate the adequacy of the individual well water supply. The
statement must set out that the well meets the requirements of the Jefferson
County Health Department.
      (10)   Whenever a septic tank and an absorption system or water supply is
to be provided, the subdivider shall require, as a condition in the bill of
assurance of the subdivision, that those facilities shall be installed by the
builders of the improvements in accordance with regulations and in compliance
with the standards of the Jefferson County Health Department.
   (B)   Water and sewer service connections. Water and sewer service
connections shall be provided for every lot in the subdivision and the city
water and sewer policy shall govern the size and material used in the
installation of water and sewer service connections. No street cuts for utility
connections will be allowed after the street has been paved.
   (C)   Water supply and distribution system.
      (1)   All subdivisions shall be provided with water supply and water
distribution systems approved by and meeting the requirements of the State
Department of Health.
      (2)   Where a public water supply is within one-quarter mile, the
developer shall install or have installed a system of water mains and connect
to such supply.
      (3)   The minimum size line, excluding house service lines, shall be
eight inches in diameter.
      (4)   Fire hydrants shall be required in all subdivisions with a public
water supply. The maximum distance between fire hydrants shall be eight hundred
feet.
      (5)   Where a public water supply is not available, each lot in a
subdivision shall be furnished with a water supply system approved by the State
Department of Health. (Also see division (A)(9) for additional requirements).
(Ord. 172, passed 6-8-87; Am. Ord. 372, passed 7-18-05)
§ 153.63 STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEM; STORM DRAINAGE CRITERIA.
   (A)   Storm drainage system.
      (1)   Every subdivision shall be served by storm drainage facilities,
which may include drains, sewer catch basins, culverts, swales, or other
facilities.
      (2)   All drainage facilities shall be so designed to serve the entire
drainage area. In major drainage areas, the city, at the option of its
appropriate agency, may participate in the cost of certain improvements.
      (3)   All surface water drainage shall be transported to existing storm
sewer or to drainage facilities approved by the Planning Commission.
      (4)   The Planning Commission and appointed City Engineer shall approve
all drainage facilities.
      (5)   After completion of the streets and utilities, the site shall be
cleaned up and graded to drain properly.
      (6)   The appointed City Engineer shall review and approve all drainage
plans, and report his findings to the Planning Commission.
   (B)   Storm drainage criteria.
      (1)   Storm drainage for residential areas shall be designed for a ten-
year frequency rainfall, and shopping centers and industrial developments for a
ten-year frequency.
      (2)   The drainage system shall be designed and constructed to handle
rainfall runoff that originates in or traverses the subdivision.
      (3)   Street crowns shall not be flattened, or warped from one side of
the street to the other for the purpose of causing water flow from one side of
the street to the other side, unless specifically approved by the appointed
City Engineer.
      (4)   Water shall be picked up in all streets at least every 600 feet by
means of catch basins, drainage pipes or curb and gutter. Unpaved drainage
swales or ditches shall be allowed along rear lot lines or in common space
where it can be demonstrated to the Planning Commission that surface drainage
is adequately accommodated. Where catch basins are located, drainage shall be
underground along front or side yard easements or street rights-of-way.
      (5)   Individual drainage of each lot shall be the responsibility of the
individual home builder or lot purchaser. However, it is the responsibility of
the developer to provide adequate drainage easements and structures that proper
drainage can be effectuated through use of “Turtle Back” lot contours or
swales.
      (6)   No open drainage channels shall be constructed within the area
dedicated as public streets and alleys.
      (7)   As a general policy, a developer shall be required to improve major
drainage channels on a prorated basis, based on the percentage of total
drainage area contributed by a given development, and its provision for
drainage shall also be considered when calculating major drainage improvements.
      (8)   Whenever drainage ditches are used, such ditches may require
concrete or gunite lining, designed to retain their original design
characteristics, and designed so they can, at all times, be kept clean and
easily maintained.
(Ord. 172, passed 6-8-87)
§ 153.64 MONUMENTS.
   (A)   Concrete monuments four inches in diameter or square and three feet
long with ½-inch metal reinforcing rod running the length of the monument shall
be placed with the top flush to the ground at all quarter section points within
or on the boundary of the subdivision and at all points of the subdivision
boundary intersections.
   (B)   Metal rods, ¾inch in diameter and 24 inches long, shall be placed with
the top flush to the ground at each corner of every block or portion of a
block, at points of curvature and points or tangency on street lines, at each
angle on the boundary of the subdivision and at all lot corners.
   (C)   In situations where conditions prohibit the placing of markers in the
locations prescribed, offset markers shall be permitted.
(Ord. 172, passed 6-8-87)
§ 153.65 PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Prior to the construction of any streets and utilities, the developer
shall furnish three complete sets of plans and specifications for said
construction to the Plat Officer. These documents shall be transmitted in
writing.
      (1)   These plans and specifications will be reviewed for conformity with
this chapter and the city standards. The plans and specifications shall be
approved in writing prior to any construction. The city appointed engineer
shall approve the plan prior to the time the Planning Commission recommends
approval of preliminary plat. Cost of engineering and inspections, to be
determined on the basis of time devoted to the project at city wage scale,
shall be charged to the developer.
      (2)   The Plat Officer shall be notified prior to the beginning of
construction so that inspection of work can be made by the appropriate
appointed city official.
   (B)   The plans shall be securely bound and shall consist of a title sheet
and such plan-profile and detail sheets as are required to meet the
requirements of this chapter and to properly define the proposed work.
      (1)   The title sheet shall show the name of the subdivision, engineer,
date, and an index of drawings.
      (2)   Each plan-profile will generally be drawn to a horizontal scale of
no greater than one inch to 100 feet and a vertical scale of one inch to ten
feet.
   (C)   There shall be a plan-profile for typical streets and alleys. The
profile shall show the existing ground on each side of the street at the
property line, the proposed grade of the top of the curb for each side of the
street, location of utilities, and other information necessary to define the
work.
   (D)   The plans shall show all information necessary to locate and construct
the proposed work and shall show the locations of all manholes, inlets, and
other appurtenances of the system.
      (1)   The profile shall show the existing natural ground at the sewer
centerline and the proposed grade at the centerline if such grade will not be
the same as the existing grade.
      (2)   The size, grade, and material of the proposed pipes and the flow
lines of all manholes, inlets, etc., shall be shown. Both the flowline and the
inside top of the pipes shall be shown in the profile.
      (3)   These plans shall be accompanied by the engineer's calculations
when requested by the City Engineer.
   (E)   The specifications shall be securely bound and shall consist of the
following minimum information: general conditions of agreement, special
conditions of agreement, and all applicable technical specifications. The
special conditions shall contain provisions for time of completion,
performance, and payment bonds, and other pertinent requirements.
(Ord. 172, passed 6-8-87)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 153.75 VARIANCES.
   Where the Planning Commission finds that extraordinary hardships or
practical difficulties may result from strict compliance with these regulations
and/or the purposes of these regulations may be served to a greater extent by
an alternative proposal, it may approve variances to these subdivision
regulations so that substantial justice may be done and the public interest
secured, provided that such variance shall not have the effect of nullifying
the intent and purposes of these regulations; and further provided the Planning
Commission shall not approve variances unless it shall make findings based upon
evidence presented to it in each specific case that the request conforms to all
of the following conditions:
   (A)   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the public
safety, health, or injurious to other property;
   (B)   The conditions upon which the request for a variance is based are
unique to the property for which the variance is sought and are not applicable
generally to other property.
   (C)   Because of the particular physical surroundings, shape or
topographical conditions of the specific property involved, a particular
hardship to the owner would result, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience,
if the strict letter of these regulations are carried out;
   (D)   That the special conditions and circumstances do not result from the
actions of the applicant.
   (E)   Cost to the developer of strict or literal compliance with the
regulations shall not be the sole reason for granting a waiver or exception.
   (F)   The variances will not in any manner vary the provisions of the land
use element, or the official subdivision jurisdiction map.
   (G)   In the granting of variances, the Planning Commission may require such
conditions as will, in their judgement, secure substantially the objective of
the standards and requirements of the subdivision regulations.
   (H)   A request for any such variance shall be submitted in writing by the
subdivider at the time when the preliminary plat is filed with the Plat Officer
for the consideration of the Planning Commission. The request shall state fully
the grounds for the application and all of the facts taken into consideration
by the petitioner.
(Ord. 172, passed 6-8-87)
§ 153.76 AMENDMENTS.
   For the purpose of promoting the public health, safety, and general welfare,
the Planning Commission may recommend amendments to these regulations, for
which a public hearing shall be held, and a 15-day advance notice is published
in a local newspaper of general circulation. Following such hearing, the City
Council may adopt the amendment or amendments as recommended by the Planning
Commission. This chapter may also be amended at any time by a majority vote of
the City Council.
(Ord. 172, passed 6-8-87)
§ 153.77 PLATS OFFICER.
   The Plats Officer is the Administrative Officer appointed by the Mayor and
approved by the majority of the City Council members, he may be a member of the
Planning Commission. It is his duty to enforce the subdivision regulations and
to administer the regulations to insure compliance with said regulations. He
shall also act as Technical Coordinator to the Planning Commission and City
Council, and advise engineers, subdividers and the public regarding local
procedures and standards and actions of the Planning Commission and City
Council regarding plat review.
(Ord. 172, passed 6-8-87)
§ 153.78 FEES.
   (A)   Preliminary plat.
      (1)   Large subdivisions. Subdivisions containing 25 lots or more the fee
shall be $25.00, plus
$2.50 per lot.
      (2)   Small subdivisions. Subdivisions containing less than lots the fee
shall be $2.00 per lot.
   (B)   Final plat.
      (1)   Large subdivisions containing 25 lots or more the fee shall be
$15.00 plus $.50 per lot.
      (2)   Small subdivisions containing less than 25 lots the fee shall be
$5.00 plus $.50 per lot.
   (C)   Replat. The fee for replats shall be $20.00 plus $.50 per lot.
(Ord. 172, passed 6-8-87)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any of the provisions of
this chapter, or who shall fail to comply with any provisions hereof within the
corporate or extraterritorial limits of the city, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, and upon conviction shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $200.
Each day that such violation continues shall constitute a separate offense and
shall be punishable accordingly.
(Ord. 172, passed 6-8-87)
CHAPTER 154: ZONING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
154.001   Authority
   
154.002   Purpose
   
154.003   Definitions
Use Zones
   
154.020   Division of city into use zones
   
154.021   R-1 Residential Single-Family
   
154.022   R-2 Residential Single-Family and Two-Family
   
154.023   R-3 Residential Multiple-Family
   
154.024   R1-MH Mobile Home District
   
154.025   C-1 Neighborhood Commercial
   
154.026   C-2 General Commercial
   
154.027   M-1 Industrial
   
154.028   R-1X Residential Single-Family Mixed Housing
General Regulations
   
154.040   Annexed area
   
154.041   Completion of existing conditions
   
154.042   Home occupations
   
154.043   Existing lots and lot area
   
154.044   Nonconforming buildings and uses
   
154.045   Screening
   
154.046   Off-street parking requirements
   
154.047   Conditional uses
   
154.048   Outdoor lighting
Planned Residential Development
   
154.060   Intent
   
154.061   Permitted uses
   
154.062   Area, density, lot and height regulations
   
154.063   Streets
   
154.064   Off-street parking
   
154.065   Common open space
   
154.066   Pedestrian circulation
   
154.067   Utilities
   
154.068   Privacy
   
154.069   Erosion and sedimentation control
   
154.070   Subdivision review
   
154.071   General plan approval process
   
154.072   Final approval
   
154.073   Subdivision processing
   
154.074   Failure to begin
   
154.075   Alterations, additions or deletions
   
154.076   Phasing
   
154.077   Violation
Administration and Enforcement
   
154.090   Board of Zoning Adjustment
   
154.091   Appeals
   
154.092   Variance and special use permits
   
154.093   Notice of public hearing
   
154.094   Amendments to zoning regulations
   
154.095   Regional Zoning Administrator
   
154.096   Zoning permits
   
154.097   Certificate of occupancy
   
154.098   Fees
   
154.099   Notice of violation
 
   
154.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.001 AUTHORITY.
   Act 186 of 1957 of the General Assembly of the State of Arkansas, as
amended, being A.C. §§ 14-56-401 through 14-56-425, empowers the city to enact
zoning regulations and to provide for their administration, enforcement and
amendment. The City Council, pursuant to the provisions of Act 186 of 1957 of
the General Assembly, as amended, has established a planning commission, which
has
divided the city into districts and has prepared regulations pertaining to
these districts in accordance with the Comprehensive Development Plan. These
regulations apply to all land and structures and are in effect throughout the
entire city limits.
(Ord. 26, passed 10-24-67)
§ 154.002 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The City Council deems it necessary, for the purpose of promoting the
health, safety, morals, order, and general welfare of the city, to enact these
zoning regulations.
   (B)   These zoning regulations are designed to lessen congestion in the
streets; to secure safety from fire and other dangers; to promote health and
the general welfare; to provide adequate light and air; to prevent the
overcrowding of land; to avoid undue concentration of population; and to
facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, water and sewage, schools,
parks and other public requirements; to stabilize property values; and to
insure orderly development of the community for the general welfare of the
citizens.
   (C)   These zoning regulations provide for zoning districts of suitable and
harmonious uses with the purpose of conserving the value of buildings and
encouraging the most appropriate use of land in the city.
(Ord. 26, passed 10-24-67)
§ 154.003 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. The word
“shall” is mandatory, the word “may” is permissive. The word “used” or
“occupied” shall include the words intended, designed or arranged to be used or
occupied. The word “lot” includes the words “plot” and “parcel.” The present
tense includes the future tense, the singular number includes the plural, and
the plural number includes the singular.
   ACCESSORY DWELLING. A site-built, self-contained living unit in a detached
structure subordinate in both land coverage and gross floor area to the
principle dwelling on the lot. Mobile homes or manufactured or modular housing
are not included in this definition and are not permitted as ACCESSORY
DWELLINGS. Metal structures of any type built and intended for residential
storage purposes are not included in this definition and are not permitted as
ACCESSORY DWELLINGS. Any ACCESSORY DWELLING constructed in accordance with the
regulations contained herein shall comply with the bulk and area provisions in
§
154.047(I).
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A subordinate structure located on the lot with the
principle structure. Where an ACCESSORY STRUCTURE is attached to the principle
structure, in a substantial manner, as by a roof, such accessory shall be
considered as a part of the principle structure. An example of an ACCESSORY
STRUCTURE for a non-residential structure would be the educational buildings of
a church, with the sanctuary being the principle structure.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use which is customarily incidental to the principal use.
In buildings restricted to residential use, the office of a professional man or
customary family workshops not conducted for compensation shall be deemed an
ACCESSORY USE.
   ALLEY. A narrow public way not in excess of 20 feet which affords a
secondary means of access to abutting properties and not intended for general
traffic circulation.
   AREA. This term refers to the amount of land surface in a lot or parcel.
   AREA REQUIREMENTS. The yard, lot area, width of lot, and parking
requirements as set forth in a specific district.
   BILLBOARDS. A freestanding sign having a sign-face of area in excess of 200
square feet but not in excess of 1200 square feet per sign-face area.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. A person appointed by the City Council to administer and
enforce these regulations.
   CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY. An official certification that a premise conforms
to provisions of the Zoning Ordinance (and building code) and may be used or
occupied. Such a certificate is granted for new construction or for alterations
or additions to existing structures. Unless a certificate is issued, a
structure cannot be occupied.
   CHILD CARE FACILITY. Any facility conducted under public or private auspices
on a profit or non-profit basis which provides care, training, education,
custody, or supervision for seven or more children from no less than five
families. This definition includes, but is not limited to, a kindergarten,
provided it is not operated as a part of the public schools of this state, a
day care center or family day care home, foster homes, group homes, and
custodial institutions. This definition does not include: religious schools or
classes; any private or public educational facility which does not provide
custodial care and which operates solely for educational purposes in grades one
or above; or facilities operated in connection with a church, shopping center,
business, or establishments where children are cared for during short periods
of time while parents or persons in charge of such children are attending
church services, shopping, or engaging in other activities during such periods.
   COMMON OPEN SPACE. A parcel, or parcels of land or an area of water or a
combination of land and water within the site designed and intended for the use
or enjoyment of the occupants of the planned residential development. COMMON
OPEN SPACE may contain such complimentary structures and improvements as are
necessary for the benefit and enjoyment of the residents.
   CONVENIENCE STORE.  A retail store with a floor area generally between 2,500
and 7,500 square feet that sells a limited line of groceries and household
items such as prepackaged food items, tobacco, hot beverages, fountain-type
beverages, and other household goods generally necessary or desirable for
everyday living, and may also sell gasoline. This definition shall not include
automotive or gasoline service stations or vehicle repair shops.
   DEVELOPER. The legal or beneficial owner or owners of all the land proposed
to be included in the Planned Residential Development including the holder of
an option or contract to purchase, or other person having an enforceable
proprietary interest in such land.
   DRIVE-THROUGH WINDOW.  An opening in the wall of a building or structure
designed and intended to be used to provide for sales to and/or service to
patrons who remain in their vehicles.
   DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY. A detached building designed for, or converted or
occupied by, three or more families, living independently of each other, with
cooking and toilet facilities in each dwelling unit.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A building consisting of a single dwelling unit
only, separated from other dwellings by open space.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A detached building designed for, or converted or
occupied exclusively by, two families, living independently of each other, with
cooking and toilet facilities in each dwelling unit.
   DWELLING UNIT. The space, within a building, comprising living, dining,
sleeping rooms, storage closets, as well as space and equipment for cooking,
bathing and toilet facilities, and used by only one family and its household
employees.
   EXISTING. The established fact of the use of land or structure at time of
effective date of these regulations.
   FACTORY BUILT HOME. Any dwelling that is wholly, or in substantial part
made, fabricated, formed or assembled in manufacturing facilities for
installation or assembly on a building site. FACTORY BUILT HOMES shall include,
but are not limited to, manufactured homes, modular homes and mobile homes.
   FAMILY. One or more persons occupying premises and living as a single, non-
profit housekeeping unit provided that, unless all members are related by blood
or marriage, the number of persons shall not exceed five.
   FLOOR AREA. The sum of the gross horizontal areas of all floors of a
building measured from the exterior faces of the exterior walls or from the
centerline of walls separating buildings, but not including cellar or basement
space not used for retailing, and not including accessory off-street parking or
loading space.
   LOT. A portion or parcel of land considered as a unit, devoted to a certain
use or occupied by a building or a group of buildings that are united by a
common interest or use, and the customary accessories and open space belonging
to same.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a subdivision recorded in the office
of the County Recorder, or a lot or parcel described by metes and bounds, the
description of which has been so recorded.
   MAJOR IMPACT HOME OCCUPATION BUSINESSES.  Major impact home occupations, as
set forth in §
154.042 of this chapter and operating under the performance standards of said
section, require a conditional use permit and Planning Commission approval in
accordance with §
154.047 of this chapter. Major impact home occupations are those home
occupations listed as no impact and minor impact home occupations; however,
applicants for major impact home occupations may request that up to two
nonresident employees be permitted to engage on-premises in the subject
business, and/or applicants may request an increase in the number of customers/
clients who can be seen at the home occupation location. Applications for major
impact home occupations may be accepted for all residential zones; however,
after a public hearing, the Planning Commission may approve, deny, modify, or
place conditions on the requested major impact home occupation.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A dwelling built in a factory in accordance with the
Federal Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. Any lot or land parcel having more than one
manufactured home placed on it. No single lot or parcel may have more than one
manufactured home placed on it unless it meets the requirements of a
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. No sale/display of manufactured homes is permitted.
   MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. A subdivision that is designed and intended
for residential use where residence is in manufactured homes exclusively, and
may be either conveyed or leased. No sale/display of manufactured homes is
permitted in a MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION.
   MINOR IMPACT HOME OCCUPATION BUSINESSES. Minor impact home occupations, as
set forth in §
154.042 of this chapter and operating under the performance standards of said
section, require approval by the Zoning Administrator and may be permitted in
all residential zones. Minor impact home occupations may have a limited number
of customers coming to the home as set forth in §
154.042(D) so long as the activity of the business does not have a major impact
on the residential neighborhood where they operate; however, no one who does
not reside in the home on a permanent basis may engage in the on-premises
activities of the minor home occupation.
   MOBILE HOME. A dwelling that was fabricated in an off-site manufacturing
facility, designed to be a permanent residence, built prior to enactment of the
Federal Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards, and consistent
with any existing state definitions.
   MODULAR HOME. A residential dwelling, constructed in a factory to a
residential construction code other than the Federal Manufactured Home
Construction and Safety Standards.
   NO-IMPACT HOME OCCUPATION BUSINESSES. No-impact home occupations, as set
forth in §
154.042 of this chapter and operating under the performance standards of said
section, do not require a permit and are permitted in all residential zones.
No-impact home occupations do not have customers coming to the home and no one
who does not reside in the home on a permanent basis engages in the on-premises
activities of the home occupation.
   NONCONFORMING. A use or structure or both that existed prior to the adoption
of these regulations but which does not meet the requirements of these
regulations.
   NURSING HOMES. A facility licensed by the State of Arkansas to provide a
full range of direct medical, nursing, and other health services on a 24 hour
basis to residents. This shall include convalescence and assisted living
facilities.
   OPEN SPACE. Any unoccupied space on a lot that is open and unobstructed to
the sky and occupied by no structures or portion of structures whatsoever.
   PARKING SPACE, BUS. On-lot space available for the parking of one motor
vehicle and having an area of not less than 500 square feet exclusive of space
necessary to provide access to a street or alley.
   PARKING SPACE, CAR. An on-lot space available for the parking of one motor
vehicle and having dimensions of nine feet by 34 feet inclusive of space
necessary to provide access to a street or alley.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The White Hall Planning Commission.
   PRINCIPAL USE. The chief or main recognized use of a structure, or lot, or
of land.
   PROPERTY LINE. The line bounding a lot as described herein.
   SCREENING. A permanent type opaque fence of wood or masonry construction
having a height of not less than six feet shall be erected and maintained
between such area and the property in a residential zone.
   STREET. A public way which affords the principle means of access to abutting
properties.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected with a fixed location on the
ground, or attached to something having a fixed location on the ground. Among
other things, STRUCTURES include buildings, billboards, and poster panels, but
do not include walks, parking areas and drives.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWER. Any structure designed to provide the capability
to receive, transmit, and/or communicate at a distance, including but not
limited to television, radio, telephone and cellular towers and structures.
   TRANSIENT USE. The placement on a site of any type of structure, either
mobile or stationary and including trailers, tents, portable buildings, or
other structures, that is not designed to comply with permanent construction
regulations, and is intended to remain on the site for a period not to exceed
six months. Such uses include concession stands, vegetable or other seasonal
food stands, and merchandising or other vending stands. A TRANSIENT USE may
only be placed in a use zone permitting the type of activity proposed. It must
comply with the setback and parking regulations of the zone and type of use and
must obtain a temporary certificate of occupancy. Such use must meet other city
and state codes and regulations as required.
   USE OF LAND. The unoccupied portion of a lot shall be considered to be in
the same use as is the principal structure located on the lot unless such land
is utilized for open storage or agriculture outside of the structure, then the
USE OF LAND shall be classified according to the nature of its use.
   YARD. A space on the same lot with a principal building, open, unoccupied
and unobstructed by buildings from the ground to the sky, except for
encroachments and accessory buildings expressly permitted by this chapter.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the full width of a lot and between the
exterior front building wall, at the ground, and the centerline of the
adjoining street upon which the lot fronts.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the full width of a lot and between the
exterior rear building wall and the rear lot line.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard adjacent to a side lot line extending from the front yard
to the rear yard and between the exterior side building wall and side lot line.
(Ord. 26, passed 10-24-67; Am. Ord. 101, passed 4-11-77; Am. Ord. 113, passed
12-11-78; Am. Ord. 121, passed 9-8-80; Am. Ord. 243, passed 10-21-96; Am. Ord.
248, passed 12-16-96; Am. Ord. 259, passed 2-17-98; Am. Ord. 260, passed 2-17-
98; Am. Ord. 273, passed 5-17-99; Am. Ord. 341, passed 5-19-03; Am. Ord. 371,
passed 7-18-05; Am. Ord. 553, passed 1-16-24)
USE ZONES
§ 154.020 DIVISION OF CITY INTO USE ZONES.
   The city is divided into the following use zones as indicated by the zoning
map, which is a part of these regulations.
   (A)   Residential Use Zone. The residential use zones are intended primarily
for residences, with permitted related uses such as churches, schools and
recreational facilities. The permitted uses and the area requirements
established the character of the use district.
      R-1         Residential Single-Family
      R-2         Residential Single- and Two-Family
      R-3         Residential Multiple-Family
      R-1 M-H   Residential Mobile Home
      R-1X      Residential Single-Family Mixed Housing
   (B)   Commercial Use Zone. The commercial use zones are intended for the
conduct of business and provision of services to the community.
      C-1      Neighborhood Commercial
      C-2      General Commercial
   (C)   Industrial Use Zone. Industrial use zone is intended for warehousing,
wholesale storage, general manufacturing and industrial activities provided
such uses do not constitute a nuisance, hazard or danger to the community.
(Ord. 26, passed 10-24-67; Am. Ord. 140, passed 9-12-83; Am. Ord. 288, passed
3-20-00; Am. Ord. 305, passed 1-22-01)
§ 154.021 R-1 RESIDENTIAL SINGLE-FAMILY.
   This zone is intended primarily for residential neighborhoods characterized
by residential dwellings containing a suitable lot area.
   (A)   Permitted use.
      (1)   Single-family dwellings. The term shall not be deemed to include
motels or rooming houses.
      (2)   Public schools and parks.
      (3)   Municipal recreational uses and public utilities and structures.
      (4)   Accessory structures or uses incidental to the permitted principal
use.
      (5)   Minor impact home occupations.
   (B)   Area requirements, residential.
      (1)   Minimum lot area shall be 9,600 square feet, except in unsewered
areas, such areas must comply with state health regulations.
      (2)   Minimum lot width shall be 75 feet (at front yard building line).
      (3)   Front yard: Measured from the centerline of streets.
         (a)   Lots which abut arterial streets, 90 feet.
         (b)   Lots which abut collector streets, 70 feet.
         (c)   Lots which abut local service streets, 55 feet, 30 feet from
property line.
      (4)   Side yard setbacks for both sides shall total not less than 15
feet, with a minimum of five feet from the property line on any one side.
      (5)   Side yard street (corner lot): Measured from the centerline of
streets.
         (a)   Lots which abut arterial streets, 85 feet, 25 feet from the
property line.
         (b)   Lots which abut local service streets, 40 feet, 15 feet from the
property line.
      (6)   Rear yard: Minimum 20 feet from rear lot line.
      (7)   Building coverage: A maximum of 35% of the lot.
      (8)   Rear and side yards for accessory buildings: Minimum of seven and
one-half feet from any property line.
      (9)   Off-street parking: Parking shall be provided on the lot to
accommodate two off-street parking spaces for each dwelling unit. The parking
spaces shall not be less than 400 square feet and shall not be located in the
required front yard setback and required street side yard setback.
    (10)   Any lot or parcel having double frontage shall be screened in
accordance with this chapter to prevent access from a side.
   (C)   Area requirements, place of public assembly.
      (1)   Height. Maximum height shall be two and one-half stories and not to
exceed 35 feet for that portion of the structure used for assembly of offices.
      (2)   Yard requirements: A minimum of 25 feet from all property lines.
      (3)   On-lot parking.
         (a)   Places of public assembly shall provide one on-lot parking space
to accommodate one motor vehicle for each four seats based on maximum seating
capacity.
         (b)   Schools.
            1.   Elementary and junior high school: One bus parking space (500
square feet) for every 100 students, one automobile parking space for each
teacher and employee, and two parking spaces per classroom (each automobile
parking space to measure 9 feet by 34 feet, inclusive of space necessary to
provide access to a street or alley).
            2.   High schools: One bus parking space (500 square feet) for
every 150 students, one automobile parking space for every ten students, one
parking space for each teacher and employee and two parking spaces per
classroom (each parking space to measure 9 feet by 34 feet inclusive of space
necessary to provide access to a street or alley).
         (c)   All off-street parking areas must be paved with two and one-half
inches of hot mix asphalt over eight inches of compacted gravel or paved with
six inches concrete.
      (4)   Sidewalks: Sidewalks shall be installed within the street right-of-
way at a distance of one foot from the property line except where such
sidewalks are deemed unnecessary by the Planning Commission. All sidewalks
should be a minimum of five feet in width and four inches thick.
      (5)   Curb and gutter: All streets shall be curbed and guttered except
where such curbs and gutters are deemed unnecessary by the Planning Commission.
Curbs shall be six inches high and the gutter 18 inches in width, and the
material used shall be concrete.
   (D)   Conditional uses upon satisfaction of the provisions of §
154.047 of this chapter.
      (1)   Minor impact home occupations when operating in conjunction with
no-impact home occupations, and major impact home occupations.
      (2)   Planned residential development.
      (3)   Child care facilities.
      (4)   Telecommunication towers.
      (5)   Accessory dwellings.
      (6)   Churches and religious educational buildings.
(Ord. 26, passed 10-24-67; Am. Ord. 140, passed 9-12-83; Am. Ord. 158, passed
3-10-86; Am. Ord. 159, passed 3-10-86; Am. Ord. 243, passed 10-21-96; Am. Ord.
259, passed 2-17-98; Am. Ord. 274, passed 5-17-99; Am. Ord. 341, passed 5-19-
03)
§ 154.022 R-2 RESIDENTIAL SINGLE-FAMILY AND TWO-FAMILY.
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Any use permitted in the R-1 District.
      (2)   Two-family dwelling units.
      (3)   Manufactured homes, provided all requirements of division (E) below
are met, and provided that the structure has a minimum width and length of 28
feet and 44 feet.
   (B)   Area requirements, residential. Same as in a R-1 District except the
following:
      (1)   Lot area per dwelling unit. An additional 2,400 square feet of lot
area shall be required for the second dwelling unit.
      (2)   Off-street parking for single-family and two-family dwelling.
Parking shall be provided on the lot to accommodate two off-street parking
spaces for each dwelling unit. The parking spaces for each unit shall not be
less than 400 square feet and shall not be located in the required front yard
setback and required street side yard setback.
   (C)   Area requirements, places of public assembly and school. Same as in a
R-1 District.
   (D)   Conditional uses upon satisfaction of the provisions of §
154.047 of this chapter.
      (1)   Hospital and nursing homes, provided that they meet all of the
setback requirements, and provided one off-street parking space for each one
bed, plus one off-street parking space for each doctor and employee is
provided. All off-street parking must be paved.
      (2)   Minor impact home occupations when operating in conjunction with
no-impact home occupations, and major impact home occupations.
      (3)   Planned residential development.
      (4)   Child care facilities.
      (5)   Telecommunication towers.
      (6)   Accessory dwellings.
      (7)   Churches and religious educational buildings.
   (E)   Requirements for manufactured homes on individual lots or parcels of
land in the city.
      (1)   Be occupied only as a residential use.
      (2)   The manufactured home shall be oriented in a manner so to be
consistent with the prevalent orientation of the dwellings in the immediate
vicinity.
      (3)   Be placed on permanent foundations, on footings, on piers, or on
blocks in accordance with Arkansas State requirements or manufacturer
recommendations, whichever are more stringent. Both the foundation system and
connection of the manufactured home to the foundation system shall be capable
of withstanding the design loads and concentrated loads identified in the
installation instructions prescribed by the manufacturer.
      (4)   All foundations for manufactured housing shall not exceed a height
of 16 inches above the foundation height prevalent to the dwellings in the
immediate vicinity.
      (5)   The skirting at the perimeter of the unit shall be composed of
concrete or masonry materials, or of manmade materials giving the appearance of
concrete or masonry materials.
      (6)   The exterior will be covered with a nonreflexive material
customarily used on site-built dwellings, such as board siding, plywood siding,
brick, or stucco; exterior brick or stucco material shall extend to the ground;
other covering material need not extend below the top of the foundation and
shall both be closer than eight inches to the ground.
      (7)   The structure shall have a pitched or peaked roof and covered with
a nonflammable roof material used on site-built dwellings.
      (8)   Be anchored to the ground in accordance with the Manufactured
Housing Construction and Safety Standards Code and manufacturer's
specifications.
      (9)   Have wheels, axles, and hitch mechanisms removed.
      (10)   Have all pertinent utilities connected in accordance with the
Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Code and manufacturer's
specifications.
      (11)   Manufactured homes on individual lots or parcels of land in the
city shall not be more than 15 years old and shall have a minimum width of 28
feet and a minimum length of 44 feet.
(Ord. 26, passed 10-24-67; Am. Ord. 135, passed 4-11-83; Am. Ord. 140, passed
9-12-83; Am. Ord. 234, passed 8-14-95; Am. Ord. 243, passed 10-21-96; Am. Ord.
259, passed 2-17-98; Am. Ord. 273, passed 5-17-99; Am. Ord. 293, passed 6-19-
00; Am. Ord. 341, passed 5-19-03; Am. Ord. 387, passed 10-10-06)
§ 154.023 R-3 RESIDENTIAL MULTIPLE-FAMILY.
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Multi-family units.
      (2)   Two-family dwelling units.
      (3)   Single-family dwelling units.
      (4)   Public schools and parks.
      (5)   Municipal recreational uses and public utilities and structures.
      (6)   Accessory structures or uses incidental to the principal use.
      (7)   Manufactured homes, provided all requirements set forth in §
154.022(E) are met, and provided that the structure has a minimum width and
length of 28 feet and 44 feet.
      (8)   Minor impact home occupations.
   (B)   Area requirements, residential. Same as in a R-1 District, except the
following: lot area per dwelling unit: 12,000 square feet total lot area shall
be required for the first two dwelling units, plus 2,000 square feet for each
additional dwelling unit.
   (C)   Area requirements, places of public assembly and school. Same as in a
R-1 District.
   (D)   Conditional uses upon satisfaction of the provisions of §
154.047 of this chapter.
      (1)   Hospital and nursing homes provided that they meet all of the
setback requirements, and provided one off-street parking space for each one
bed, plus one off-street parking space for each doctor and employee is
provided. All off-street parking must be paved.
      (2)   Minor impact home occupations when operating in conjunction with
no-impact home occupations, and major impact home occupations.
      (3)   Planned residential development.
      (4)   Telecommunication towers.
      (5)   Churches and religious educational buildings.
   (E)   Multi-family development standards are designed to permit and
encourage the development of multi-family residences at a medium density that
is appropriate to the area.
      (1)   Density shall be limited to 16 units per acre.
      (2)   Height. Two stories or 35 feet measured from Finished Floor Level
(FFL).
      (3)   Exterior yards. Minimum 25 = foot setback.
      (4)   Detached building separation. All detached buildings shall be
separated by a distance of not less than ten feet.
      (5)   Open space. A minimum of 20% of the total lot size shall be
maintained as open space, landscape and/or natural area or recreation areas.
      (6)   Screening/fencing. In the event a parcel is used as a multi-family
use, a compact evergreen screen or a permanent opaque fence of wood or masonry
construction shall be erected and maintained between adjoining residential uses
or zones. Screening shall be six feet in height. Security fencing of ornamental
design shall be located along the front and any side abutting right-of-way.
Gating used for ingress/egress shall be set back an adequate distance to
prevent stacking of vehicles on streets. Fencing be included on site plans for
review and approval.
      (7)   Lighting. Any light used to illuminate the property or parking area
shall be so arranged to reflect away from adjacent properties including those
located across rights-of-way.
      (8)   (a)   Parking. Parking shall be calculated in two categories:
            1.   One bedroom apartments. One-and-a-half spaces per unit.
            2.   Two or more bedroom apartment. Two spaces per unit.
         (b)   Minimum design standards for parking spaces shall be ten feet in
width by 18 feet in depth exclusive of ingress and egress. Striping shall be
utilized to delineate spaces. Parking shall not be allowed in front yard or
street side setback areas. Parking of large trucks, commercial vans, semi-
tractor trailers or equipment utilizing continuous running compressors or
motors shall not be permitted.
      (9)   Ingress/egress. Minimum drive width of 20 feet shall be provided
and installed per §
154.046(C)(3) of this code and maintained free of potholes and damage.
      (10)   Accessory uses. Accessory buildings used for storage shall not be
placed if front or side yard setback areas adjoin rights-of-way. Sanitation
units shall be placed in side or rear yards only and shall not be placed within
required setback areas. Sanitation units shall be screen with permanent opaque
materials.
(Ord. 26, passed 10-24-67; Am. Ord. 140, passed 9-12-83; Am. Ord. 177, passed
9-12-88; Am. Ord. 243, passed 10-21-96; Am. Ord. 274, passed 5-17-99; Am. Ord.
288, passed 3-20-00; Am. Ord. 293, passed 6-19-00; Am. Ord. 341, passed 5-19-
03; Am. Ord. 501, passed 4-17-17)
§ 154.024 R1-MH MANUFACTURED HOME DISTRICT.
   (A)   Manufactured Home Subdivision Residential District. This district is
intended to promote and preserve single-family mobile home subdivisions and
manufactured home park development which is compatible with conventional
single-family residential development. The manufactured home subdivision and
manufactured home park classification shall consist of three subdistricts
including:
      (1)   R1-5.0 (MH) - 5,000 square feet minimum lot size with 45 feet
minimum width;
      (2)   R1-5.5 (MH) - 5,500 square feet minimum lot size with 50 feet
minimum width; and
      (3)   R1-6.5 (MH) - 6,500 square feet minimum lot size with 60 feet
minimum width.
   (B)   Height and area regulations. In the MH Mobile Home District the
maximum height of buildings, the minimum required setbacks, and the maximum
allowable density shall be as follows:
      (1)   Height. In the MH Mobile Home District, no building hereafter
erected or structurally altered shall exceed one story or 15 feet.
      (2)   The minimum width at front building line of a manufactured home
park/tract shall be 45 feet.
      (3)   The minimum setback from any perimeter property line shall be 25
feet.
      (4)   The minimum setback from any interior street shall be 20 feet.
      (5)   The minimum separation between manufactured homes shall be 20 feet.
      (6)   The minimum side and back yard setback shall be ten feet.
      (7)   The maximum allowable density in any manufactured home park/
subdivision shall be eight manufactured homes per acre.
   (C)   Special requirements.
      (1)   A map or plat of the manufactured home parks/subdivision shall be
prepared in accordance with the subdivision and zoning ordinance of the city;
and, all manufactured homes will be clearly identified with an alphabetic or
numeric identifier which is legible to city and emergency personnel. In
addition, the mobile home park will provide an updated list of occupancy to the
Police Department.
      (2)   The minimum size of manufactured home park/subdivision shall be ten
acres.
      (3)   No more than one manufactured home shall be placed on each lot/
tract.
      (4)   No mobile home shall be permitted in a manufactured home park
unless it contains
at least 784 square feet of living space; and was not manufactured more than 15
years before the date to be installed on the property; provided however, that
upon application, a manufactured home park owner may request ten spaces for
temporary use by campers, and an additional five spaces for overflow. These
spaces shall be clearly designated by the manufactured home park owner, upon
the plat or map submitted to the city.
      (5)   The manufactured home shall be mounted and anchored in accordance
with current state laws, regulations and guidelines.
      (6)   Manufactured homes shall be skirted to the perimeter of the
manufactured home with concrete or masonry materials, wood materials or the
same materials used as siding for the manufactured home, provided however, that
campers or motor homes located on temporary use lots are exempt.
      (7)   Prior to submission of a map or plat as stated in division (1)
above, any person or entity wishing to establish a manufactured home park/
subdivision shall make petition pursuant to the Constitution of the State of
Arkansas and amendments thereto at general or specific election and property
petition and have placed on the ballot at said general or special election the
proposed manufactured home park/subdivision, the approval for which shall be
made by popular vote of the registered voters residing within the city.
      (8)   No manufactured home park/subdivision may be established within one
half mile of the outer boundaries of the grounds of any school in the White
Hall School District and located within the city.
   (D)   Use regulations. Premises located within this district shall be used
exclusively for a manufactured home park/subdivision subject to the provisions
of this chapter. In the MH Manufactured Home District no building or land shall
be used and no building shall be hereafter erected, converted, or structurally
altered, unless otherwise provided in this chapter, except for one of the
following uses:
      (1)   Manufactured home residential.
      (2)   Accessory buildings (shall be located back of the required set
back line from any interior drive, or any exterior drive from which access is
taken).
      (3)   Accessory recreational uses such as tennis courts, swimming pools,
playgrounds, putting greens, etc., and other uses such as washaterias
customarily incidental to the above use, when located on the same lot and back
of the required setback lines.
      (4)   Nameplate not exceeding one square foot in area. (One per
manufactured home). Signs not exceeding 32 square feet in area appertaining to
the lease or hire of a building or premises, which shall not rotate or flash.
(One per manufactured home park).
      (5)   Awnings and carports may occupy only 50% of the required minimum
spacing between manufactured homes; must be open from the ground to the roof
structure; and must be constructed of non-combustible materials.
      (6)   Double frontage spaces. A manufactured home space having double
frontage shall take access from only one dedicated public street.
   (E)   Off-street parking. Off-street parking shall be provided at each
manufactured home space at the rate of two spaces per manufactured home. All
parking spaces shall be paved in accordance with the zoning ordinance.
   (F)   Screening. Where a manufactured home park/subdivision adjoins a lot in
a residential zone, or is across the street from a residential zone, a
permanent type opaque fence of wood or masonry construction having a height of
not less than six feet shall be erected and maintained between such area and
the property in a residential zone.
   (G)   Recreation space. Common recreation shall be provided at the rate of
300 square feet per manufactured home lot/tract. Minimum size of any recreation
space shall be 5,000 square feet. All required recreation areas shall be
located back of the required setback lines. All required recreation areas shall
be used solely for recreational purposes.
   (H)   Storage facilities. In addition to required lot area, a common storage
facility shall be provided at a central location, at the rate of 100 square
feet for each manufactured home lot/tract for the storage of boats and
recreational vehicles, etc.
   (I)   Utility installations. All utility installations shall meet the
requirements established by the appropriate codes, and shall be maintained
hereafter by the developer in accordance with the appropriate code of the city.
   (J)   Conformance with ordinance. All work on or at any manufactured home
park/subdivision shall be in accordance with the subdivision ordinances and all
other ordinances of the city regulating such work.
   (K)   Nonconforming use. Commencing on the date of the adoption of this
ordinance to amend the zoning and subdivision regulations, manufactured home/
parks/subdivisions in all other existing zoning districts and do not meet these
requirements within the city will be classified as nonconforming use.
   (L)   Conditional uses upon satisfaction of the provisions of §
154.047 of this chapter.
      (1)   Telecommunication towers.
(Ord. 26, passed 10-24-67; Am. Ord. 166, passed 11-10-86; Am. Ord. 167, passed
11-10-86; Am. Ord. 234, passed 8-14-95; Am. Ord. 243, passed 10-21-96; Am. Ord.
273, passed 5-17-99)
§ 154.025 C-1 NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL.
   The intent of this district is to provide neighborhood services and may
contain such uses as will be compatible with adjoining residential districts.
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Multi-family dwelling units provided that they meet all the
requirements of the R-3 District.
      (2)   Offices, business and professional.
      (3)   Clinics, medical or dental, for human treatment only.
      (4)   Barber shops, beauty parlors, custom dressmaking or millinery
shops, clothes cleaning and pressing pick-up agencies, tailor shops,
confectionery stores.
   (B)   Prohibited uses. Single-family and two-family dwellings are
prohibited.
   (C)   Area requirements.
      (1)   Minimum lot area shall be 9,600 square feet.
      (2)   Minimum lot width shall be 80 feet at the front yard building line.
      (3)   Front yard: Measured from the centerline of streets.
         (a)   Lots which abut arterial streets, 90 feet.
         (b)   Lots which abut collector streets, 70 feet.
         (c)   Lots which abut local service streets, 55 feet.
         (d)   On corner lots the front yard shall be considered as parallel to
the street upon which the lot has the least dimensions.
      (3)   (a)   Side yard each.
            1.   Minimum of ten feet when abutting a C or —1 district.
            2.   Minimum of 20 feet abutting an R-2 district.
            3.   Minimum of 30 feet when abutting an R-1 district.
         (b)   Side yard street (corner lots). Measured from the centerline of
streets.
            1.   Lots which abut arterial streets, 85 feet, 25 feet from
property line.
            2.   Lots which abut collector streets, 65 feet, 25 feet from
property line.
            3.   Lots which abut local service streets, 50 feet, 25 feet from
property line.
         (c)   Additional height. Same as in a R-1 District.
      (4)   Rear yard. Same as in a R-1 District.
      (5)   Building coverage. Same as in a R-1 District.
      (6)   Rear and side yards accessory building. Minimum of 7½ feet from
property line except when abutting streets.
      (7)   Off-street parking requirements. As provided in §
154.046 of this chapter.
      (8)   Sidewalks. Sidewalks shall be installed within the street right-of-
way at a distance of one foot from the property line except where such
sidewalks are deemed unnecessary by the Planning Commission. All sidewalks
shall be a minimum of five feet in width and four inches thick.
      (9)   Curb and gutter. All streets shall be curbed and guttered except
where such curbs and gutters are deemed unnecessary by the Planning Commission.
Curbs shall be six inches high and 18 inches in width, the material used shall
be concrete.
      (10)   A permanent opaque screening fence or wall shall be constructed
along any side yard that abuts property zoned for residential purposes or along
any rear property line that abuts or is across the street from property zoned
for residential purposes. The height of the screen or wall shall be not less
than eight feet and shall be constructed of wood, masonry or other durable
opaque material, and finished in a manner appropriate to the appearance and use
of the property. Chain link or other mesh screens containing slats shall not be
permitted as an opaque screen. The location of the screen in relation to the
lot line, visibility triangle, street right-of-way, or sidewalk shall be in
accordance with §
154.045.
   (D)   Conditional uses upon satisfaction of the provision of §
154.047 of this chapter.
      (1)   Self-service or automatic laundries, dryers, cleaners, repair shops
for shoes, repair shops for radio and television sets, and repair shops for
domestic appliances.
      (2)   Public and community services.
      (3)   Establishment of all drive-in types services offered by the
permitted and conditional uses that service directly to the customers waiting
in parked vehicles.
      (4)   Child-care facilities.
      (5)   Recreation centers.
      (6)   Telecommunication towers.
      (7)   Nursing homes, provided they meet all setback requirements, and
provide one off-street parking space for each one bed, plus one off-street
parking space for each doctor and employee is provided. All off-street parking
must be paved.
(Ord. 26, passed 10-24-67; Am. Ord. 101, passed 4-11-77; Am. Ord. 113, passed
12-11-78; Am. Ord. 141, passed 9-12-83; Am. Ord. 243, passed 10-21-96; Am. Ord.
288, passed 3-20-00; Am. Ord. 385, passed 4-18-06; Am. Ord. 553, passed 1-16-
24)
§ 154.026 C-2 GENERAL COMMERCIAL.
   The intent of this district is to provide for retail trade, service,
cultural and recreational needs of the entire community and beyond, intended to
be developed in a manner similar to a C-1 District and should have excellent
highway access.
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Any uses permitted in the C-1 District plus special uses. Multi-
family units shall not be permitted.
      (2)   General consumer-oriented grocery sales such as, but not limited to
the following:
            Bakeries (provided that at least 25% of the floor space is devoted
to sales).
            Drug and proprietary sales.
            Grocery stores; meat, fish and seafood markets; fruit and
vegetable, candy, nut and confectionery stores.
      (3)   Variety stores offering a wide range of consumer items such as, but
not limited to the following:
            Department stores.
            Dry goods sales; draperies, curtains and upholstery sales; leather
goods and luggage shops.
            General stores.
            Hardware stores including garden supply sales.
            Limited price variety stores.
            Mail order houses.
            Discount stores.
      (4)   Stores offering special types of consumer household needs such as,
but not limited to the following:
            Furniture stores, rug and carpet sales.
            Household appliance stores, including radio and television sales
and service, and sewing machine sales and service.
            Interior decorating shops.
            Paint and wallpaper stores.
      (5)   Other stores offering special consumer items such as, but not
limited to the following:
            Antique sales (no outside storage).
            Books and stationary sales, newspaper and magazine shops
            Camera and photographic supply stores.
            Cigar stores.
            Florists.
            Hobby shops, coin and stamp stores.
            Jewelry stores; gift and novelty shops; china, glassware and
metalware sales.
            Optical goods.
            Sporting goods, bicycle sales.
            Pet shops.
      (6)   Personal services such as, but not limited to the following:
            Apparel repair, alteration and cleaning pick-up services.
            Beauty and barber services.
            Electrical repair services for household appliances.
            Laundry, dry cleaning and dyeing services (exclusive of rugs, linen
supply, industrial laundry services, and diaper services).
            Shoe repair services.
            Watch, clock and jewelry repair services.
      (7)   Open air market such as, but not limited to the following: Farmer
and produce market, flea market, antique market and craft market.
      (8)   Eating establishments.
      (9)   Finance, insurance and real estate service of all types.
      (10)   Convenience stores.
      (11)   Drive-through windows.
      (12)   Churches and religious educational buildings.
   (B)   Prohibited uses. Single-family, two-family and multiple family
dwelling units are prohibited.
   (C)   Area requirements.
      (1)   Same as in C-1 District.
      (2)   Front yard: Same as in a C-1 District, 90-foot arterial.
      (3)   (a)   Side yard (each): Same as in a C-1 District.
         (b)   Side yard street: Same as in a R-1 District.
         (c)   Additional height: Same as in a C-1 District.
      (4)   Rear yard: Same as in a C-1 District.
      (5)   Building coverage: A maximum of 50% of the lot.
      (6)   Rear yard accessory building: Same as in a C-1 District.
      (7)   Off-street parking requirements: As provided in §
154.046 of this chapter.
      (8)   Sidewalks: Same as in C-1 District.
      (9)   Curb and gutter: Same as in C-1 District.
      (10)   Drive-through window stack space. The minimum stack space per
drive-through window for drive-in banks and similar uses and fast food
restaurants shall be 120 linear feet, and shall be 60 linear feet for
drugstores, liquor stores, laundries, fully automated banking centers, and
other such commercial establishments which normally do not have a specific peak
period of usage. Said stack space shall not impede parking lot/street traffic
or on-site parking spaces. The location of the drive-through window and stack
space shall be approved by the Zoning Administrator who may require any changes
in the design deemed necessary.
      (11)   A permanent opaque screening fence or wall shall be constructed
along any side yard that abuts property zoned for residential purposes or along
any rear property line that abuts or is across the street from property zoned
for residential purposes. The height of the screen or wall shall be not less
than eight feet and shall be constructed of wood, masonry or other durable
opaque material, and finished in a manner appropriate to the appearance and use
of the property. Chain link or other mesh screens containing slats shall not be
permitted as an opaque screen. The location of the screen in relation to the
lot line, visibility triangle, street right-of-way, or sidewalk shall be in
accordance with §
154.045.
   (D)   Special uses upon satisfaction of the provisions of §
154.047 of this chapter.
      (1)   Private schools such as but not limited to the following:
            Art and music schools.
            Barber and beauty schools.
            Business and stenographic schools.
            Correspondence schools.
            Dancing schools.
            Driving schools.
            Nursery schools.
      (2)   Vehicle related:
            Tires, batteries and accessory sales.
            Gasoline service stations.
            Repair services.
            Wash services.
            New car dealerships.
            Used car sales lot.
            Motorcycle sales shop.
            Motorcycle repair shop.
      (3)   Other activities and services such as the following:
            Bowling alleys.
            Business associations; professional membership organizations; labor
unions; civic, social and fraternal organizations.
            Gymnasiums and athletic clubs.
            Theaters.
            Welfare and charitable services.
            Research, development and testing services.
            Motels and hotels.
            Sports arenas.
            Amusement, arcade and billiard establishments.
            Taverns, bars and liquor stores.
            Funeral homes.
            Veterinarian clinics.
      (4)   Telecommunication towers.
      (5)   Billboards.
   (E)   Uses prohibited.
      (1)   A number of land uses exist which may, in some ways, be considered
commercial but because of other aspects of their nature must be prohibited from
even the least restrictive of the C-2 Commercial Districts. Such uses generally
have one or more of the following traits:
         (a)   They deal with large volumes of material which is not intended
for sale directly to the consumer.
         (b)   They deal with materials in a raw form, that is, materials which
require some type of processing before a derived product can be sold to the
customer.
         (c)   They deal with materials of a dangerous nature and such
materials should not be sold or stored in highly populated areas.
      (2)   Therefore, the following and similar uses are prohibited from the
C-2 District:
         (a)   Industrial uses as specified in the Industrial Districts.
         (b)   The sale or storage of materials such as dynamite which
decompose by detonation (this clause does not include the sale of sporting
ammunition).
         (c)   Wholesale trade of farm products or animal products in raw
material form.
         (d)   Sale of metals, minerals, scrap and waste materials.
         (e)   Warehousing and storage of materials or products which are not
sold on the premises or which are not used in the production of some material
or item which will be sold on the premises.
(Ord. 26, passed 10-24-67; Am. Ord. 135, passed 4-11-83; Am. Ord. 141, passed
9-12-83; Am. Ord. 149, passed 1-14-85; Am. Ord. 243, passed 10-21-96; Am. Ord.
248, passed 12-16-96; Am. Ord. 371, passed 7-18-05; Am. Ord. 385, passed 4-18-
06; Am. Ord. 456, passed 5-20-13)
§ 154.027 M-1 INDUSTRIAL.
   Industrial use zone is intended for general manufacturing and industrial
activities and for the storage of goods.
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   The manufacturing, compounding, processing, packing and assembling
of products where it is found by the enforcement officer that the location and
the safeguards taken will so reduce the noise, dust, odor or vibration so as
not to be detrimental or dangerous to the health, safety, or general welfare of
the people.
      (2)   Storage of bulk material when it is found by the enforcement
officer that the specific location and safeguards taken will so reduce the
danger of fire or explosion as not to be dangerous to the health, safety, or
general welfare of the people.
   (B)   Residential uses prohibited. No structure may be constructed or
altered for residential use.
   (C)   Area requirements.
      (1)   Minimum lot area: 2½ acres.
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 150 feet.
      (3)   Front yard: Minimum of 30 feet from all property lines.
      (4)   Side yard: Minimum of 25 feet from all property lines.
      (5)   Back yard: Minimum of 25 feet from all property lines.
      (6)   Sidewalks: Same as in C-1 District.
      (7)   Curb and gutter: Same as in C-1 District.
      (8)   A permanent opaque screening fence or wall shall be constructed
along any side yard that abuts property zoned for residential purposes or along
any rear property line that abuts or is across the street from property zoned
for residential purposes. The height of the screen or wall shall be not less
than eight feet and shall be constructed of wood, masonry or other durable
opaque material, and finished in a manner appropriate to the appearance and use
of the property. Chain link or other mesh screens containing slats shall not be
permitted as an opaque screen. The location of the screen in relation to the
lot line, visibility triangle, street right-of-way, or sidewalk shall be in
accordance with §
154.045.
   (D)   Height.
      (1)   Maximum height of a structure shall be three stories and not to
exceed 45 feet.
      (2)   The Board of Adjustment may waive the height requirements when it
is demonstrated that the equipment and structure to house the operation
requires greater height.
   (E)   Off-street parking. One on-lot parking space shall be provided for
every one employee.
   (F)   Off-street loading and unloading facilities. Each structure or use
shall provide off-street loading and unloading facilities which will not block
a street, alley or other public way.
   (G)   Conditional uses upon satisfaction of the provisions of §
154.047 of this chapter.
      (1)   Telecommunication towers.
      (2)   Billboards.
(Ord. 26, passed 10-24-67; Am. Ord. 101, passed 4-11-77; Am. Ord. 243, passed
10-21-96; Am. Ord. 248, passed 12-16-96; Am. Ord. 385, passed 4-18-06)
§ 154.028 R-1X RESIDENTIAL SINGLE-FAMILY MIXED HOUSING.
   This zone is intended primarily for residential neighborhoods characterized
by mixed single-family housing types on lots containing suitable area.
   (A)   Permitted use. 
      (1)   Any use permitted in the R-1 District.
      (2)   Manufactured homes, provided all requirements set forth in §
154.022(A)(3) and (E) are met.
   (B)   Area requirements, residential. Same as in an R-1 District.
   (C)   Area requirements, places of public assembly and school. Same as in an
R-1 District.
   (D)   Conditional uses upon satisfaction of the provisions of §
154.047 of this chapter. Same as in an R-1 District.
(Ord. 305, passed 1-22-01)
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 154.040 ANNEXED AREA.
   (A)   Territory annexed to the city after adoption of these regulations
shall be given use designations within 90 days after the effective date of
annexation in accordance with the amendment procedures of these regulations.
   (B)   Before official use designation is made after annexation, all requests
for building permits shall be referred to the Planning Commission or a
committee thereof. The Planning Commission or its designated committee may
recommend issuance of the permit if it conforms to the land use plan and the
structure meets the requirements of the zone in which it is to be located.
(Ord. 26, passed 10-24-67)
§ 154.041 COMPLETION OF EXISTING CONDITIONS.
   Nothing herein contained shall require any change in construction or
designated use of a building actually under construction at the time of the
adoption of these regulations.
(Ord. 26, passed 10-24-67)
§ 154.042 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   (A)    Home occupations permitted in residential neighborhoods and
districts.
      (1)   No-impact home occupation businesses, as defined in §
154.003, may operate in any residential districts and neighborhoods without
necessity of permit, subject to the limitations and conditions set forth
herein.
      (2)   Minor impact home occupation businesses, as defined in §
154.003, may operate in residential districts and neighborhoods with a zoning
permit but do not require a conditional use permit or Planning Commission
approval, subject to the limitations and conditions set forth herein.
      (3)   Major impact home occupation businesses, as defined in §
154.003, require a conditional use permit and Planning Commission approval to
operate or continue operation, subject to the limitations and conditions set
forth herein.
   (B)   Performance standards.
      (1)   The use of the dwelling as a home occupation location must be
clearly incidental and subordinate to its use for residential purposes.
      (2)   No person other than those residing on the premises shall be
engaged in on-premises activities of the home occupation unless a conditional
use permit for a major impact home occupation is granted by the Planning
Commission. “Residing on the premises,” when stated in this ordinance, means
that the residence in which the home occupation is to be conducted is the
permanent domicile of any person engaging in the home occupation activity.
      (3)   A home occupation which is authorized to receive patrons, students,
or any business-related individuals at the home occupation location may only do
so between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m.
      (4)   Number of home occupations that may be permitted in a single
dwelling unit, subject to the limitations and conditions set forth herein:
         (a)   Two no-impact home occupations; or
         (b)   One minor impact home occupation; or
         (c)   One major impact home occupation; or
         (d)   One minor impact home occupation and one no-impact home
occupation.
      (5)   The home occupation(s) in totality must occupy no more than 25% of
the floor area of the residence or 500 square feet, whichever is less.
Restrictions on the number of patrons, clients and those performing work in a
dwelling unit shall apply to all home occupations within a dwelling unit and
shall not be cumulative.
      (6)   There shall be no exterior displays, no exterior storage of
equipment or goods, including unlicensed equipment, materials, vehicles, or
open lot storage.
      (7)   Home occupations shall not produce offensive noise, vibration,
smoke, electrical interference, dust, odors or heat. Any noise, vibration,
smoke, electrical interference, dust, odors or heat detectable beyond the
property lines or beyond the walls of a multiple-family unit shall not be
permitted.
       (8)   Home occupations shall not require internal or external structural
alterations of the principal residence that may change the outside appearance
of the principal residence or change the residential character of the property.
       (9)   No separate entrance from the outside of the building shall be
added to the residence for the sole use of the home occupation.
      (10)   Home occupations shall not require the installation of equipment
or machinery creating utility demand, noise, fumes or other impacts in excess
of equipment or machinery that is customarily found in a residential area.
      (11)    No electric devices may be used in any home occupation which may
cause electrical interference or create visual and audible interference in any
radio, television receiver or telephone, which violates FCC standards, or which
causes fluctuations in off-site line voltages.
      (12)    No on-premises advertising for the home occupation shall be
allowed, with the exception of a non-illuminated sign no larger than one square
foot that is mounted flush against the home. Window areas must not purposely,
intentionally, or unintentionally be used as display areas or to offer
merchandise for sale.
      (13)    All related business activities shall take place entirely within
the residential dwelling or in an accessory structure that is normally
associated with a residential use, unless the Zoning Administrator finds that
business activity conducted outside the dwelling is similar to noncommercial
activities normally associated with single-family residences.
      (14)    No pedestrian or vehicular traffic shall be generated by the home
occupation in greater volumes than would normally be expected in a residential
area.
      (15)    No delivery truck shall operate out of a residential district as
a function of the home occupation. A single delivery or business vehicle may be
operated from a home occupation so long as it is limited to a maximum size of
one-ton gross vehicle weight and so long as it is stored on its own paved
parking pad located behind the front yard setback. Said vehicle cannot displace
vehicles that normally would park in either of the two paved parking spaces
required for the residence.
      (16)    No home occupation will be permitted which requires receipt or
delivery of merchandise, goods, or equipment by other than a passenger motor
vehicle or by parcel or letter carrier mail service using vehicles typically
employed in residential deliveries.
      (17)    No deliveries by semi-tractor/trailer truck are permitted.
      (18)    All vehicles of customers or residents of the home occupation
location must be parked in authorized parking locations on the lot where the
home occupation is located.
      (19)    The home occupation shall not create a hazard by using flammable,
explosive or other dangerous materials or by keeping, raising or storing
animals that are capable of inflicting harm or discomfort or endangering the
health and safety of any person or property.
      (20)    Low-intensity (traffic generation, land use, noise, and the like)
occupations, professions and business activities, and those uses or activities
of a similar nature, as provided by the permitted home occupation uses in this
section, may be permitted as home occupations in residential zoning district
(s), subject to the conditions of these regulations and other applicable
federal, state, or local laws.
      (21)    A business license shall be obtained, if required by other
ordinances.
      (22)    This section does not permit the establishment and operation of
home occupations without a permit unless they have been exempted from the
requirements of permitting by this section.
   (C)   No-impact home occupation businesses. The following home occupations
do not require a zoning permit so long as the activity of the business has no
impact on the residential neighborhood where it operates, does not invite
business customers to or receive customers at the home occupation location, and
no person other than those residing on the premises shall be engaged in on-
premises activities of the home occupation:
      (1)   Artists;
      (2)   Composers;
      (3)   Writers;
      (4)   Photography studio;
      (5)   Home crafts, such as jewelry making, model making, rug weaving,
woodworking, and ceramics (with a kiln up to six cubic feet), where sales of
homemade items occur at locations other than the home occupation location;
      (6)   Musical instrument teacher for not more than two students at a time
where instruments are not amplified;
      (7)   Dance or aerobics instructor for not more than two students at a
time;
      (8)   Art and craft instruction for not more than two students at a time;
      (9)   Educational tutoring for not more than two students at a time;
      (10)    Persons who conduct the home occupation entirely on a telephone
or personal computer and do not invite business customers to or receive
customers at the home occupation location, including telephone answering
service, telephone reception for a mobile business, and mail order or telephone
order business where no merchandise is delivered to or from the home occupation
location;
      (11)    “Work at home” activities where employees of a business, located
at another location, perform work for the business in their own residence,
provided all physical contact between the business and the employee occurs at
the place of business and not the residence, and so long as the “work at home”
activity conforms to all other requirements of this section;
      (12)    Sale of personal goods and services, such as cosmetics and
kitchenware away from the residence, and which does not invite customers to or
receive customers at the home occupation location and which does not have
storage of equipment, goods, or supplies outside the home occupation
residential dwelling; or
      (13)    Any other activities similar to one of the above categories.
   (D)   Minor impact home occupation businesses. The following home
occupations require a zoning permit but do not require a conditional use permit
and Planning Commission approval so long as the activity of the business does
not have a major impact on the residential neighborhood where they operate, and
no person other than those residing on the premises shall be engaged in on-
premises activities of the home occupation:
      (1)   Musical instrument (non-amplified) teacher for more than two but
less than five students at a time, limited to three groups daily;
      (2)   Dance or aerobics instructor for more than two but less than five
students at a time, limited to three groups daily;
      (3)   Educational tutoring for more than two but less than five students
at a time, limited to three groups daily;
      (4)   Art and craft instruction for more than two but less than five
students at a time, limited to three groups daily;
      (5)   Designer/decorator who does not see more than one customer at a
time at the home occupation location, limited to five customers daily;
      (6)   Personal sewing, clothing alterations, and dressmaking if the
proprietor does not invite or receive more than one customer to the home
occupation location at a time, limited to five customers daily;
      (7)   Washing and ironing if the proprietor does not invite or receive
more than one customer to the home occupation location at a time, limited to
five customers daily;
      (8)   Window covering sewing if the proprietor does not invite or receive
more than one customer to the home occupation location at a time, limited to
five customers daily;
      (9)   Fitting of prostheses, if the proprietor does not invite or receive
more than one customer to the home occupation location at a time, limited to
five customers daily;
      (10)    Small bookkeeping, typing, or computer programming service if the
proprietor does not invite or receive more than one customer to the home
occupation location at a time, limited to five customers daily;
      (11)    Babysitters for no more than five children, including the
children of the babysitter;
      (12)    Professional offices, such as accountants, appraisers,
architects, attorneys, contractors, engineers, financial planners, consultants,
and realtors, who see no more than one customer at a time at the home
occupation location, limited to five customers daily;
      (13)    Maintenance/handyman/janitorial service, contractor, and lawn
care service, provided there is no outside storage of equipment or supplies. A
single business vehicle may be operated from the home occupation location so
long as it is limited to a maximum size of one-ton gross vehicle weight, and so
long as it is stored on its own paved parking pad located behind the front yard
setback. Said vehicle cannot displace vehicles that normally would park in
either of the two paved parking spaces required for the residence; or
      (14)   Any other activities similar to one of the above categories.
   (E)   Major impact home occupation businesses.
      (1)   The home occupations listed in divisions (C) and (D) of this
section are considered major impact home occupation businesses when persons
other than those residing on the premises shall be engaged in on-premises
activities of the home occupation, and/or when the number of single and daily
customers allowed under a lesser home occupation is requested to be increased.
      (2)   A major impact home occupation requires a conditional use permit
and Planning Commission approval, and the Planning Commission may, after a
public hearing, permit the home occupation where it is deemed to be essential
or desirable to the public convenience or welfare. The Planning Commission may
place conditions on the permit so as to reduce the impact of the home
occupation on the neighborhood. These conditions can include but are not
limited to screening, off-street parking, and access to the property.
      (3)   The Planning Commission shall not permit the on-premises employment
of more than two persons who do not reside at the residence.
      (4)   The Planning Commission may permit the proprietor to increase the
number of single and daily customers allowed under minor impact home
occupations if it is found that said increase will not have a negative impact
on the neighborhood.
      (5)   The Planning Commission may not permit any home occupation as a
major impact home occupation that is not permitted under these regulations.
   (F)   Activities not permitted. The following activities shall not be
permitted as home occupations in accordance with this section: dentists and
medical doctor offices; beautician or barber shops; manicure and pedicure
shops; massage therapy; massage parlors; fortune telling; health and exercise
facilities; palm reading; tattoo parlors; recording studios; any repair of
motorized vehicles including the painting or repair of automobiles, trucks,
trailers, boats, motorcycles, all-terrain vehicles, and lawn equipment; tow
truck service; veterinary offices; pet grooming; kennels; stables; bird keeping
facilities; animal training; dancing schools; music schools; child care
facilities for over five children; restaurants; catering/food preparation
businesses; funeral chapels or homes; crematoria; mausoleums; the sale of
firearms or ammunition; construction businesses or landscaping businesses that
provide the storage of goods and materials to be utilized in the operation of
the business or use; warehousing; vehicle sales, leases, or parts sales;
welding or machine shops; retail sales not specifically allowed above; boarding
houses unless otherwise permitted in a residential zone; cabinetry, mechanical
repair or modification, fabrication, treatment or assembly of goods, the
process of which requires intensive use of equipment,
machinery, raw materials or component parts (e.g., welding, construction or
assembly of cabinets or furniture, treatment of steel or the finishing of
wood); and any other type of business that would change the residential
character of the neighborhood if permitted to operate.
   (G)   Conditions of zoning permit or conditional use permit; revocation of
permit.
      (1)   Any permit issued for a home occupation is valid only for the
person who applied for the permit, the use applied for, and the location
applied for. The home occupation permit is not transferable to a subsequent
buyer of the property or to another home occupation in the same residence. It
is also not transferable to another location to which the applicant may move.
      (2)   All minor impact home occupation permits are issued for an
unlimited period. Major impact home occupation permits may also be issued for
an unlimited period unless otherwise determined by the Planning Commission.
      (3)   The Planning Commission, after a public hearing, may revoke a home
occupation permit for the following reasons:
         (a)   Noncompliance with conditions set forth when the conditional use
permit was granted;
         (b)   It is determined that the home occupation is adversely impacting
the residential neighborhood by operation of the business; or
         (c)   For violation of any of the requirements of this section or any
provision of city codes.
      (4)   If a business license is required for the home occupation, a home
occupation permit may also be revoked if the applicant has not renewed his or
her business license at his or her approved location within 90 days of the
expiration of the business license.
      (5)   If a home occupation permit is in danger of being revoked for any
reason, the applicant must be given written notice at least ten days prior to
any action.
(Ord. 26, passed 10-24-67; Am. Ord. 341, passed 5-19-03)
§ 154.043 EXISTING LOTS AND LOT AREA.
   (A)   On any lot in a residential use district which is on a plat of record
at the time of passage of these regulations, a one-family structure may be
erected even though the lot be of less area or width than required by the
regulations of the residential use area in which the lot is located, provided
all other area requirements are met.
   (B)   On any lot in a commercial use district which is on a plat record at
the time of passage of these regulations and has not, as yet, been developed,
curbs and gutters shall be required in accordance with the current subdivision
regulations as amended.
(Ord. 26, passed 10-24-67; Am. Ord. 89, passed 11-10-75; Am. Ord. 101, passed
4-11-77)
§ 154.044 NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS AND USES.
   (A)   The lawful use of a building or premises existing at the time of
adoption or amendment of these zoning regulations may be continued although
such use does not conform with the provisions of these regulations. Such
nonconforming use may be enlarged to an extent not to exceed more than 50% of
the existing floor area, if it can meet all the other zoning regulations at the
effective date of this chapter or at such later date as a building may become
nonconforming by reason of a change in zoning regulations.
   (B)   An existing mobile home or manufactured home that is located on a
residential-zoned parcel of land (subject site) and is determined to be
nonconforming as defined in this chapter may be replaced on said parcel with a
manufactured home that meets all the requirements set forth in §
154.022(A)(3) and 154.022(E) of this chapter, provided that all other zoning
requirements of the residential district in which it is located and all of the
following conditions are met:
      (1)   An application to replace an existing mobile home or manufactured
home must be submitted to the City of White Hall no later than 30 days after
removing an existing mobile home or manufactured home from the subject site. If
the subject site has been vacated by the mobile home or manufactured home for
over 30 days at the time an application for the mobile home/manufactured home
replacement is made, the application will not be considered.
      (2)   Documentation that the home to be replaced is the principal
residence of the applicant and that he or she will be the occupant of the
replacement manufactured home must accompany the application for mobile home/
manufactured home replacement. Current occupancy documentation must be in the
form of a current water or electric bill for the subject site that shows normal
residential usage. Documentation of occupancy of the replacement manufactured
home shall be a purchase agreement between the applicant and the manufactured
home vendor or similar document that also shows where the home is to be
situated.
      (3)   A site plan reasonably drawn to scale that shows a) the proposed
location of the replacement manufactured home, b) any other structures that
will remain on the subject site or are proposed to be located on the subject
site, and c) the location of all existing or proposed off-street parking must
be submitted with the application for mobile home/manufactured home
replacement.
      (4)   The replacement manufactured home must be completely installed on
the subject site and any other requirements of this chapter must be completed
no later than 60 days after issuance of a permit to replace an existing mobile
home or manufactured home. A reasonable time extension may be granted through a
variance (see
154.092) by the White Hall Board of Zoning Adjustment upon submission of proof
that circumstances beyond the control of the applicant have prevented the
timely completion of implementation of the replacement permit. Financial
constraints shall not be considered as a circumstance beyond the control of the
applicant.
(Ord. 26, passed 10-24-67; Am. Ord. 304, passed 1-22-01; Am. Ord. 387, passed
10-10-06)
§ 154.045 SCREENING.
   (A)   Definitions.   For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      FENCE shall mean an artificially constructed barrier of wood, masonry,
stone, wire, metal, or other manufactured material or combination of materials
erected to enclose, screen, or separate areas.
      SCREENING shall mean a method of visually shielding or obscuring one
abutting or nearby structure or use from another by fencing, walls, berms, or
densely planted vegetation.
      WALL shall mean a constructed solid barrier of concrete, stone, brick,
tile, wood or similar type of material that closes, marks, or borders a field,
yard, or lot, and that limits visibility and restricts the flow of air and
light.
   (B)   Visibility at intersections.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to install, set out, maintain, or allow the
installation of any object that obstructs the visibility of a street
intersection within the 25 foot “visibility triangle” of such intersection. The
“visibility triangle” is the triangular area formed by the intersection of the
platted, assumed, or maintained right-of-way of two streets, with the third
side of such triangle being described as a line connecting two points located
25 feet from the corner intersection of and along the respective right-of- way
line of each side street. Such obstructions shall include, but not be limited
to, signs and signposts, levies, hedges and hedgerows, shrubbery, trees and
other natural vegetation, embankments, retaining walls, or any other
obstruction to the view higher than 36 inches above the level of the center of
the adjacent and corresponding intersection.
      (2)   The foregoing division shall not apply to public utility poles,
official traffic or public safety signs, advertising signs, the lowest portion
of which shall be nine feet or more above the level of the intersection and
mounted on supporting column(s) less than 12 inches in diameter, trees that are
trimmed and free of branches to a minimum height of nine feet above the level
of the intersection, or saplings or other vegetation not planted in hedge and
that are so planted and trimmed so as to leave at all seasons a clear and
unobstructed view of the intersection.
   (C)   Dangerous trees.  Any tree or shrub that overhangs any sidewalk,
street or public space in the city in such a way as to impede or interfere with
traffic or travel on such public place or that obstructs any street lamp or
interferes with the fire alarm wires, shall be trimmed by the owner of such
tree or shrub so that the obstructions shall cease. Any limb of a tree that has
become likely to fall on or across any public way or place shall be removed by
the owner of the premises on which such tree grows or stands.
   (D)   Fencing and walls.
      (1)   Permit requirements.
         (a)   No person shall install, replace, or reconstruct a fence or wall
in the city without first obtaining a Fence Permit and complying in all
respects with the terms and conditions and this section. A Fence Permit is not
required for painting, maintenance, or repair or replacement of less than 16
lineal feet.
         (b)   A scaled site plan must be submitted with the Fence Permit
Application that shows the following:
            1.   The location, type and height of the proposed fence;
            2.   Distances of the proposed fence from lot lines and other
improvements on the property;
            3.   Location of driveway(s);
            4.   Location of public streets, sidewalks, and alleys;
            5.   For fence subject to the 50% solid limitation, an accurate and
dimensioned drawing or illustration of the fence is required; and
            6.   Such other information as may be reasonably required to
determine compliance with city codes and ordinances.
      (2)   Completion of installation. A fence or wall authorized by a Fence
Permit shall be fully installed in accordance with this section and permit
conditions, within 180 days of the date of the permit issuance. A Fence Permit
shall expire 180 days after the date of issuance. After a Fence Permit expires,
no work requiring such a permit shall be commenced, resumed or undertaken until
a new permit is issued or the original permit is extended. The permit applicant
may file a written request for an extension of the Fence Permit stating the
reason for the request, for up to 180 additional days to complete the fence
installation. The Zoning Official, in administering this code, shall grant the
request if good cause is shown.
      (3)   Responsibility of applicant. The applicant is solely responsible
for installing the fence or wall:
         (a)   Within the boundaries of their property determined by survey, in
compliance with this section and the Permit, including but not limited to,
proper materials, height, setback, and vision clearance;
         (b)   In compliance with any subdivision covenants or restrictions,
deed restrictions, utility easement restrictions, land use restrictions of
record, including applicable plan review and approval or waiver requirements;
         (c)   In a manner as will not obstruct storm water drainage, violate a
city approved storm water plan or unreasonably divert storm water on the
property of another; and
         (d)   Without damaging any underground utilities.
      (4)   Existing fences and walls. Any fence or wall existing upon the
effective date of this section shall not be enlarged, extended or replaced,
except in strict compliance with all of the requirements of this section,
except that existing fences that are damaged less than 50% of replacement value
may be rebuilt, but no residential fence to be rebuilt may include barbed wire
or other sharp edge material such as razor wire.
      (5)   General standards.
         (a)   Fences and walls must be constructed in a substantial,
workmanlike manner. They shall be constructed, and shall include line, gate,
and corner posts securely anchored to the ground, all in conformance with
generally accepted good fence construction practices.
         (b)   Fences and walls shall be designed and constructed in a
uniformly consistent manner and shall have a neat, clean, and finished
appearance. Used materials shall not be utilized for fence construction unless
the materials are refurbished in an appearance and structure to approximate new
material.
         (c)   All fences facing streets and alleys shall be installed so that
the finished side of the fence is exposed to the public view and the parts of
the fence structure (horizontal and vertical support posts, etc.) are exposed
to the view of the property owner. Fences facing properties other than streets
and alleys may be erected with the finished side facing either inward or
outward.
         (d)   Post spacing shall be equidistant except to accommodate gates or
a repeating architectural design.
         (e)   Fences and walls shall be maintained in an upright condition.
         (f)   Any fence or wall which is or has become dangerous to public
safety, health, or welfare, is considered a public nuisance. The Zoning
Official may start proper proceedings for an abatement.
         (g)   Boundary line fences and walls will be located entirely upon the
private property of the person constructing or causing the construction of the
fence or wall unless the owner of the property adjoining agrees, in writing,
that a fence or wall may be erected on the division line of both properties.
         (h)   Civil disputes over the location of a fence or wall at adjoining
private properties are not within the enforcement authority of the city to
resolve.
         (I)   Fences and walls placed within easements are subject to removal
by city and utility maintenance workers if such becomes necessary to permit
access for the purpose of installing, repairing, cleaning, replacing, or
rehabilitating city utility or drainage facilities located or proposed within
the easement. The locations where easements are crossed by fence installations,
locked gates may be required to allow vehicular access. Acceptable provisions
to allow access into underground structures are required when fences and walls
are placed over such facilities.
         (j)   Schools, public parks, and/or playgrounds may erect open-mesh
fences within accepted industry standards, and fencing surrounding tennis
courts and baseball and/or softball field backstops may be erected in
conformance with accepted industry standard, as long as other provisions of
these regulations are met.
         (k)   No fence or wall shall be installed in any yard that will shield
any window or opening in a habitable space of a dwelling. A minimum distance of
three feet shall be maintained between any solid fence or wall and any such
window or opening in a dwelling.
         (l)   No advertising signs are allowed on fences or walls.
         (m)   It shall be the responsibility of the property owner to insure
that a fence or wall does not block or obstruct the flow of storm water.
      (6)   Approved fence materials.
         (a)   Front yard fences shall be 50% open (see-through) and be of
ornamental design, i.e., split rail, wrought iron or picket. Chain link fences
shall not be located within any portion of the front yard.
         (b)   Fences or walls to be situated in side and/or rear yards shall
be constructed using materials suitable for residential-style fencing,
including but not limited to brick, fieldstone, wrought iron, vinyl, chain
link, stockade, or board-on-board wood.
         (c)   Chain link/open mesh fences, wherever permitted, will be
constructed so that the barbed end is at the bottom of the fence and the
knuckle end is at the top. Chain link/open mesh fences shall not contain strips
or slats among the links.
         (d)   Agricultural/farm fences shall not be permitted on properties
that have been used for the purpose of enclosing livestock or other
agricultural activities within the proceeding 24 month period. Agricultural/
farm fences are those fences consisting of chicken wire, deer fence, hog wire,
high tensile, wire strand, used in the agricultural, farming and livestock
business, specifically for livestock, animal and bird control.
         (e)   No fence or wall shall be constructed of used or discarded
materials in disrepair, including but not limited to pallets, tree trunks,
trash, junk, or other similar items. Materials not specifically manufactured
for fencing, such as railroad ties, wooden doors, landscape timbers or utility
poles shall not be used for or in the construction of a fence.
      (7)   Fence standards for residential districts. All fences in
residential districts shall comply with the following standards in addition to
the general standards and approved fencing materials:
         (a)   Fences within any portion of the front yard extending across the
full width of the lot and lying between the street frontage of the lot and the
front yard setback as set forth in the Zoning Ordinance, shall not exceed 42
inches in height, and posts and/or decorative finials together may add no more
than six inches to the total height.
         (b)   The maximum height of fences and walls located in a rear or side
yard is eight feet.
         (c)   All fences and walls shall comply with division (B) of this
section (visibility triangle).
         (d)   No fence or wall shall be located within one foot of a sidewalk.
         (e)   Electric fences at a height of no more than five and one-half
feet are allowed in rear and side yards when: completely enclosed by another
fence or wall that is not charged with electricity, is opaque and does not have
barbs, spikes, or dangerous projections, and said outer fence is at least six
and one-half feet in height.
         (f)   No residential fence may include barbed wire or other sharp edge
material such as razor wire. Existing fences including barbed wire or other
sharp edge material shall be considered nonconforming and may not be extended
or replaced except in conformance with this section.
         (g)   All fences or walls on a single parcel shall have a unified
style along a single plane and for all fence segments visible from off the
premises for any single direction except as otherwise permitted or required in
this section.
      (8)   Fence standards for commercial and industrial districts. All fences
and walls in commercial and industrial districts shall comply with the
following standards in addition to the general standards:
            (a)   Location.
               1.   In order to maintain clear vision lanes for vehicles and
pedestrians, no opaque faces shall be permitted within 10 feet, in any
direction, of the following points:
                  (I)   At the intersection of a driveway and sidewalk (or
front property line if there is no sidewalk),
                  (ii)   At the intersection of a driveway and public right-of-
way, and
                  (iii)   At the intersection of any two driveways.
               2.   All fences and walls shall comply with division (B) of this
section (visibility triangle).
               3.   No fence or wall shall be located within one foot of a
sidewalk.
            (b)   Material and construction.
               1.   Electric fences are allowed only when completely enclosed
by another fence or wall that is not charged with electricity, is opaque, and
does not have barbs, spikes, or dangerous projects, and said outer fence is at
least six and one-half feet in height and is located within a rear or side
yard.
               2.   A fence may be topped with barbed wire or other sharp edged
materials when:
                  (I)   Included as a security fence as part of an approved
development plan; and
                  (ii)   Such materials are located above a height of six and
one-half feet.
               3.   Only ornamental fences shall be permitted in the front yard
setback unless required by these or other governmental regulations.
               4.   All fences and walls on a single parcel shall have a
unified style along a single plane and for all fence segments visible from off
the premises for any single direction.
            (c)   Height.
               1.   Unless otherwise permitted or required in this section,
fences and walls within any portion of the front yard extending across the full
width of the lot and lying between the street frontage of the lot and the front
yard setback as set forth in the Zoning Ordinance, shall not exceed 42 inches
in height, and posts and/or decorative finials together may add no more than
six inches to the total height.
               2.   Unless otherwise permitted or required in this section, the
maximum height of fences and walls located in a rear or side yard is eight
feet.
(Ord. 26, passed 10-24-67; Am. Ord. 358, passed 8-16-04)
§ 154.046 OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, calculations for parking space shall
not be included in any part of any required front yard or the first five feet
for commercial districts.
   (B)   Off-street parking space as required in this section shall be provided
for all new buildings and structures and for additions to existing buildings or
structures. The word “additions” as used above shall include any alteration
intended to enlarge or increase the capacity of a building or structure by
adding or creating dwelling units, guest rooms, floor area, or seating
capacity. Required parking space may include existing parking space and such
space shall be maintained and shall not be encroached upon so long as main
buildings or structures remain, unless an equivalent number of such spaces are
provided elsewhere in conformance with this chapter. The parking spaces
required for other uses shall be located on the same site with the main
building or within 660 feet of such use, the distance to be measured along
lines of public access.
   (C)   Number and size of parking spaces.
      (1)   In the interpretation of the following requirements, entrance and
exit drives to the parking lots shall not be included in computation to
determine the number of required parking spaces.
      (2)   Each off-street parking space shall measure nine feet by 34 feet
inclusive of space necessary for access to a street or alley.
      (3)   All off-street parking areas must be paved with 2½ inches of hot
mix asphalt over eight inches of compacted gravel or paved with six inches of
concrete except for open-air markets that are open to the public two days a
week or less. Open-air markets open two days a week or less shall be paved with
four inches of compacted SB-2.
         (a)   Offices, business and professional: One space per 100 square
feet of gross floor area.
         (b)   Clinics, medical or dental, for human treatment only: five
spaces for each employee.
         (c)   Barber shops, beauty parlors: One space per 100 square feet of
gross floor area plus one space per employer/employee.
         (d)   Custom dressmaking or millinery shops, clothes cleaning and
pressing pick-up agencies, tailor shops, confectionery stores: one space per
100 square feet of gross floor area.
         (e)   Hotels and motels: One for each housekeeping unit, suite or
room.
         (f)   Eating and drinking places: One space per two seats intended for
customer use.
         (g)   Retail sales: One per 300 square feet of gross floor area.
         (h)   Motion picture theater: One space per two seats.
         (I)   Gymnasiums, athletic clubs, private clubs, fraternity and
sorority building: One space per 100 square feet of floor area.
         (j)   Bowling alley: Five spaces per alley plus one space per
employee.
         (k)   Automobile retail sales, auto supply, and auto repair: One space
per 100 square feet of floor area.
         (l)   Service station: All outdoor space intended for use and service
and parking shall be paved with 2½ inches of hot-mix asphalt over eight inches
of compact gravel or paved with six inches of concrete.
         (m)   Drive-in restaurant: 3.2 spaces per 100 square feet of area.
         (n)   Open-air markets: One space per 200 square feet of sales area.
All driveway access must be approved by the Zoning Administrator.
         (o)   Health and fitness centers: 6.6 spaces per 1,000 square feet.
(Ord. 26, passed 10-24-67; Am. Ord. 101, passed 4-11-77; Am. Ord. 135, passed
4-11-83; Am. Ord. 502, passed 4-17-17)
2017 S-22
§ 154.047 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   The Planning Commission may after a public hearing, permit special
uses as outlined in the various districts where such uses are deemed to be
essential or desirable to the public convenience or welfare.
   (B)   Written application for the approval of the uses classified as special
uses shall be filed with the Southeast Arkansas Regional Planning Commission's
office or at the City Hall upon forms prescribed for that purpose by the
Planning Commission.
   (C)   The procedure for holding public hearings shall be the same as that
required in §
154.093 of this chapter.
   (D)   The Planning Commission shall make its findings and determination in
writing within 40 days from the date of filing of an application and shall
forthwith transmit a copy thereof to the applicant.
   (E)   In approving special uses, the Planning Commission shall have
authority to impose such conditions as it deems necessary to protect the
public's health, safety and general welfare.
   (F)   In addition to the requirements for conditional uses stated above in
divisions (A) through (E) of this section, the following provisions shall be
satisfied for child care facilities:
      (1)   Child care facilities may be operated for a period of not more than
12 hours and only between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. The Planning
Commission may waive these hours of operation on a case by case basis if the
proposed hours of the facility are compatible with the surrounding uses.
      (2)   There shall be provided one paved off-street parking space for each
staff member, with two spaces being the minimum number of parking spaces
required, as well as a paved loading and unloading area for children.
      (3)   Thirty-five square feet per child of usable floor space shall be
required for indoor play. For the purpose of computing this area, hallways,
bathrooms, and kitchen floor space shall not be included.
      (4)   There shall be not less than 75 square feet of usable outdoor play
space for each child receiving care in the facility. Such outside play space
shall be completely enclosed with not less than a four-foot chain link fence.
      (5)   All such applicants for child care facilities must evidence that
the State of Arkansas Social Services Division, Department of Social and
Rehabilitation Services, agrees that the applicant can satisfy any and all
state requirements in addition to those noted herein.
   (G)   In addition to the requirements for conditional use stated above in
divisions (A) through (F) of this section, the following provisions shall be
satisfied for recreation centers: Recreation centers shall not be located less
than 300 feet from any residential zone property.
   (H)   In addition to the requirements for conditional uses stated above in
divisions (A) through (G) of this section, the following provisions shall be
satisfied for billboards:
      (1)   Billboards shall be located only on streets designated on the White
Hall Master Street Plan as major arterial streets.
      (2)   Each billboard shall have a maximum of two sign faces, one per
side, supported by the same structural foundation. In no case will the maximum
area of a single sign on one facing be more than 1,200 square feet, nor will it
exceed a length of 60 feet or a height of 25 feet inclusive of any border and
trim but excluding ornamental base or apron supports and other structural
members.
      (3)   No billboard shall be located within 3,000 feet of another
billboard. This spacing requirement shall be measured linearly along the center
line of the street to which the billboard is directed and the measurement shall
apply to both sides of the street, except that each side of the street shall be
considered separately on streets with medians.
      (4)   A billboard, including the facing and supporting structures, shall
meet the following setbacks:
         (a)   The front yard setback shall be 70 feet from the center of the
road or 20 feet from the property line, whichever is greater.
         (b)   The side yard (street) setback shall be 15 feet.
         (c)   The side yard (interior) setback shall be 10 feet when abutting
a C-2 or M-1 zone and 20 feet when abutting all other zones.
         (d)   The rear yard setback shall be 20 feet.
      (5)   The maximum height of a billboard shall not exceed 45 feet above
grade level except that billboards located within 200 feet of a divided highway
may be elevated a maximum of 45 feet above the level of the highway at the
point on the highway perpendicular to the center of the sign.
      (6)   If a billboard is erected in conformance with the zoning
regulations and any conditions placed upon it by the Planning Commission, and
subsequently the view of one or both of the full facings of the billboard at
any point described above is materially obstructed, the sign facing shall be
considered no longer functional. (An obstruction shall be deemed to be of a
material character when it renders the essential elements of the sign
unreadable.) The owners of the billboard may be given the option to replace the
sign facing(s) in the event it (they) becomes obstructed and considered no
longer functional, however, a sign facing that is obstructed in excess of 60
days shall be required to be removed.
      (7)   When a conditional use application shall be filed for the
establishment of a billboard in the city, the application shall be accompanied
by a professional survey drawn to scale that shows the location of the proposed
billboard in relation to all property lines, all existing structures and
existing parking and driveway facilities, and the location of the outside curb
or edge of pavement of the arterial street on which the billboard will be
located.
   (I)   In addition to the requirements for conditional use stated above in §
154.047(A) through (E), the following provisions shall be satisfied for
accessory dwellings.
      (1)   One accessory dwelling may be placed on a parcel with one existing
single family dwelling which is the primary residence, or constructed on the
parcel at the same time as the primary residence, provided all requirements of
this section are met. One of the dwelling units shall be occupied by the land
owner. Accessory dwellings shall not be permitted on parcels with duplexes.
      (2)   The accessory dwelling shall be a site-built structure. Mobile
homes, manufactured or modular housing, or metal structures built off-site and
intended to be moved onto a residential lot for storage purposes are not
permitted as accessory dwellings. An existing accessory structure meeting this
requirement may be converted to an accessory dwelling provided that upon
completion it will meet the requirements of this section and the city building
codes.
      (3)   The accessory dwelling may be a stand-alone structure or may be a
two-story type of construction when the ground floor is occupied as an
automobile garage or accessory storage for the primary residence on the lot.
      (4)   The maximum permitted floor area of an accessory dwelling shall not
exceed 700 square feet nor shall it exceed, when added to the principle
dwelling, 35% of the total lot area.
      (5)   Setbacks. A stand-alone accessory dwelling shall be located in the
back yard of the principle residence and be located at a minimum ten feet from
the principle residence. Side yard setbacks shall be the same as for the
principle residence. The rear yard setback shall be ten feet from the rear
property line. If the accessory dwelling is a two-story type of construction
and the ground floor is occupied as an automobile garage for the primary
residence on the lot, the structure may be located beside or be attached to the
primary residence provided that said structure meets the setback requirements
of its zone.
      (6)   One off-street paved parking space located behind the front yard
setback of the primary residence is required for an accessory dwelling. Said
parking space shall be in addition to the parking required for the principle
residence.
      (7)   No accessory dwelling shall exceed the permitted height of the
district.
   (J)   Implementation of conditional uses permitted under the requirements of
this section shall begin within six months of the date the permit was granted
or the permit will be voided. A six-month extension of this requirement may be
granted by the Zoning Administrator if the permittee can show that unavoidable
circumstances have delayed the implementation of said conditional use permit.
Extension requests must be submitted to the Zoning Administrator in writing and
must state the reasons the extension is needed. If a conditional use permit
becomes void under this regulation, and the petitioner wishes to pursue said
conditional use, a new conditional use application must be submitted, and all
regulations of this section must be adhered to.
(Ord. 26, passed 10-24-67; Am. Ord. 101, passed 4-11-77; Am. Ord. 113, passed
12-11-78; Am. Ord. 202, passed 5-11-92; Am. Ord. 248, passed 12-16-96; Am. Ord.
259, passed 2-17-98; Am. Ord. 428, passed 8-16-10; Am. Ord. 435, passed 5-16-
11)
§ 154.048 OUTDOOR LIGHTING.
   In order to protect the privacy of property owners by limiting the potential
for glare and light trespass from outdoor lighting fixtures located on adjacent
properties, and to protect drivers, pedestrians, senior citizens, and the
visually impaired from the glare of non-vehicular light sources that can impair
safe travel, the following regulations shall be applied as follows:
   (A)   Applicability.
      (1)   All outdoor lighting fixtures installed on private and public
property after the effective date of this section shall comply except as set
forth herein.
      (2)   All outdoor lighting fixtures existing and legally installed and
operative before the effective date of this section are exempt from these
requirements unless they are determined to create a disabling glare.
      (3)   Replacement of existing fixtures shall meet the requirements of
this section.
      (4)   In the event of a conflict with any other section of the White Hall
Code of Ordinances, the more stringent requirement shall apply.
   (B)   Exemptions.
      (1)   Single-family and two-family residential uses;
       (2)   Street lights; however, street lights must meet the requirements
of the State of Arkansas;
      (3)   Navigation lights (i.e., airports, heliports, radio/television
towers);
      (4)   Special situations approved by the city for temporary or periodic
events (i.e., parades, festivals, etc.);
      (5)   Seasonal lighting for a period up to 60 days when such lighting is
not hazardous to vehicular traffic or disruptive to neighborhoods;
      (6)   Security lights of any wattage that function properly and are
controlled by a motion-sensor switch and which do not remain on longer than 12
minutes after activation;
      (7)   Fossil fuel lighting; and
      (8)   Spotlighting on landscaping and foliage utilizing incandescent
lamps or bulbs of not more than 150 watts.
   (C)   General standards.
      (1)   All outdoor lighting fixtures shall be designed, installed, located
and maintained such that all direct illumination is kept within the boundaries
of the fixture owner's property.
      (2)   Sports field lighting shall be designed in accordance with IESNA
standards located in IESNA RP 6-01 "Sports and Recreational Area Lighting".
(Ord. 385, passed 4-18-06; Am. Ord. 386, passed 8-21-06)
PLANNED RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT
§ 154.060 INTENT.
   It is the intent of these conditions to accommodate creative and imaginative
planned residential development and to permit those innovations in the
technology of land development which are in the best interests of the city. In
order to accomplish this intent, it is the purpose of these conditions:
   (A)   To permit, in a planned residential development, a variety of dwelling
types, including single- family, two-family, and multi-family dwellings of the
townhouse, garden apartment, and highrise types, and a maximum density
permitted in the district within which the planned residential development is
proposed; and
   (B)   To permit the flexible spacing of lots and buildings in order to
encourage:
      (1)   The separation of pedestrian and vehicular circulation,
      (2)   The conservation of natural amenities of the landscape,
      (3)   The provision of readily accessible open space,
      (4)   The creation of functional and interesting residential areas, and
      (5)   The provision of a necessary complement of community facilities.
(Ord. 101, passed 4-11-77)
§ 154.061 PERMITTED USES.
   The Planning Commission may permit the following uses in a planned
residential development:
   (A)   Single-family dwellings.
   (B)   Two-family dwellings.
   (C)   Multi-family dwellings which may exceed the height limitations of the
zoning district in which the project is located.
   (D)   Accessory service and nonresidential uses. Customary accessory or
associated uses such as private garages, storage spaces, community facilities,
and schools shall be permitted as appropriate and clearly incidental to the
uses permitted on the same premises.
   (E)   Open space which may include, along with the natural environmental
features, swimming pools, tennis courts, and other recreational facilities
deemed permissible by the Planning Commission. These facilities are to be used
mainly by the residents, and their guests, of the development in which the
facilities are located. Streets, parking lots, structures for habitation or
storage, and the like shall not be included as part of the required open space
and recreational facilities.
(Ord. 101, passed 4-11-77)
§ 154.062 AREA, DENSITY, LOT AND HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Minimum area for development. A planned residential development shall
contain a minimum of ten acres. All land within the development shall be
contiguous in that it shall not be divided into segments, by any limited access
highway, and any tract of land (other than streets or rights-of-way for
pipeline or electrical transmission lines) not owned by the landowner of the
planned residential development.
   (B)   Maximum density of residential development. A planned residential
development shall not exceed the densities prescribed for the district in which
it is located. Planned residential developments which exceed 50 acres may have
a maximum density exceeding by 10% the densities prescribed for the district in
which it is located.
   (C)   Minimum requirements.
      (1)   Yard setback, type of dwelling unit, frontage and use restrictions
contained in other sections of this chapter are hereby waived for planned
residential development, provided that the intent and objectives of §
154.060 are complied with in the total development plan, as determined by the
Planning Commission. Building separation shall be maintained in accordance with
the requirements of the fire code and other safety codes of the city and in
accordance with good design principles.
      (2)   Every dwelling unit shall have access to a public street, walkway
or other area dedicated to common use.
   (D)   Perimeter requirements. If topographical or other barriers within the
development do not provide reasonable privacy for existing uses adjacent to the
development, the Planning Commission shall impose either of the following
requirements or both:
      (1)   Structures located on the perimeter of the development must be set
back in accordance with the provisions of the zoning code controlling the area
within which the development is situated; and,
      (2)   Structures located on the perimeter of the development must be well
screened in a manner approved by the Planning Commission.
   (E)   Height regulations for multi-family dwellings. No structure shall
exceed 70 feet in height
above the average finished grade line in the R-2 (multi-family district) nor
exceed 50 feet in the R-1 (single-family district).
(Ord. 101, passed 4-11-77)
§ 154.063 STREETS.
   (A)   Interior streets.
      (1)   Interior residential access streets shall be paved according to
(city or county) specification for residential streets, as delineated in the
subdivision regulations and properly lighted and maintained. Their minimum
paved roadway width shall be as follows:
      Two-way without parking                        20 feet
      Two-way road with parking on one side where approved   28 feet
      One-way road with parking on one side where approved   18 feet
      (2)   Parking along access roads shall be subject to approval of the
Planning Commission and the City Safety Director.
   (B)   Collector streets and major thoroughfares. Collector streets and major
thoroughfares shall be designated as such by the developer upon the submission
of general plans as provided for in §
154.071. Such designations shall be subject to modification by the Planning
Commission so that an efficient circulation system is established in relation
to other existing or planned streets in the area. There shall be no direct
access from single-family residential lots to a major thoroughfare, and direct
access from single-family residential lots to collector streets shall be
maintained.
(Ord. 101, passed 4-11-77)
§ 154.064 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   There shall be provided outside the public or private right-of-way a minimum
of two parking spaces for each dwelling unit or in an area designated for guest
parking as deemed appropriate, common driveways, parking areas, and lighted for
night use. Screening of parking or service areas may be required through the
use of trees, shrubs, hedges, and screening devices. All parking spaces and
service drives shall be improved with bituminous, concrete, or equivalent
surfacing and so graded and drained as to control the release of all surface
water accumulation within the area.
(Ord. 101, passed 4-11-77)
§ 154.065 COMMON OPEN SPACE.
   (A)   Amount and character. At least 25% of the total acres in a proposed
development permitted by this section shall be dedicated to public and/or
private open space or recreation facilities exclusive
of dwellings, streets, parking areas, and single-family residential lots. Such
open space shall be clearly shown on the general plan, shall be physically
situated so as to be readily accessible, available to, and usable by all
residents of the planned residential development.
   (B)   Conveyance and maintenance of common open space.
      (1)   All common open space shown on the final development plan and
recorded in the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer must be conveyed in
accordance with one of the following methods:
         (a)   The proposed dedication as publicly owned and maintained open
space must be acceptable to the city with regard to the size, shape, location,
and improvements. In addition, the developer must show that dedication of such
areas will be to the city.
         (b)   By leasing or conveying title (including beneficial ownership)
to corporation, home associations or other legal entity. The terms of such
lease or other instrument of conveyance must include provisions suitable to the
Planning Commission for guaranteeing:
            1.   The continued use of such land for intended purposes;
            2.   Continuity of proper maintenance,
            3.   When appropriate, the availability of funds required for such
maintenance;
            4.   Adequate insurance protection; and
            5.   Recovery for loss sustained by casualty, and condemnation or
otherwise.
      (2)   In any event, the developer must file in the City Hall, at the time
the approved final subdivision map is filed, legal documents which will produce
the aforesaid guarantees and, in particular, will provide a method for
restricting use of common open space for the designated purposes.
(Ord. 101, passed 4-11-77)
§ 154.066 PEDESTRIAN CIRCULATION.
   The pedestrian circulation system and its related walkways shall be
insulated as completely and as reasonably as possible from the vehicular street
system in order to provide separation of pedestrian and vehicular movement.
(Ord. 101, passed 4-11-77)
§ 154.067 UTILITIES.
   A planned residential development shall provide for underground installation
of utilities (including
electricity and telephone) in public ways and extensions thereof. Utility
installation and maintenance of facilities shall be in accordance with the
requirements and regulations of the appropriate White Hall District authority
having jurisdiction thereof. A planned residential development shall not be
approved unless adequate assurance is given that adequate public or central
water and sanitary sewers will be available at the first occupancy.
(Ord. 101, passed 4-11-77)
§ 154.068 PRIVACY.
   Each planned residential development shall provide reasonable visual and
acoustical privacy for dwelling units. Fences, insulation, walls, barriers, and
landscaping shall be used, as appropriate, for the protection and aesthetic
enhancement of property and the privacy of its occupants, screening of
objectionable views, or uses and reduction of noise.
(Ord. 101, passed 4-11-77)
§ 154.069 EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL.
   Effective erosion and sediment controls shall be planned and applied
according to the following principles:
   (A)   The smallest practical area of land should be exposed at any one time
during development.
   (B)   When land is exposed during development, the exposure should be kept
to the shortest practical period of time.
   (C)   Temporary vegetation and/or mulching shall be used to protect critical
areas exposed during development.
   (D)   Sediment basins (debris basins or silt traps) shall be installed and
maintained to remove sediment from run-off waters from land undergoing
development.
   (E)   Provisions shall be made to accommodate the increased runoff caused by
changed soil and surface conditions during and after development.
   (F)   Permanent final vegetation and structures shall be installed as soon
as practical in the development.
   (G)   The development shall be fitted to the topography and soils so as to
create the least erosion potential.
(Ord. 101, passed 4-11-77)
§ 154.070 SUBDIVISION REVIEW.
   (A)   It is the intent of this chapter that subdivision review under the
subdivision regulations be carried out as an integral part of the review of a
planned residential development under this chapter. The plans required under §
154.073 of this chapter must be submitted in a form which substantially will
satisfy requirements of the subdivision regulations for final plan approvals.
However, if any provisions of this chapter and the subdivision regulations are
in conflict, the more restrictive or detailed requirements shall be met, unless
specifically waived or altered by the Planning Commission.
   (B)   It is the intent of this chapter to permit the submission of
subdivision applications for the whole, a part, or parts of the overall planned
residential development.
(Ord. 101, passed 4-11-77)
§ 154.071 GENERAL PLAN APPROVAL PROCESS.
   (A)   General plan submission.
      (1)   At the time of application for a conditional zoning certificate, a
general plan for the development of the land shall have been filed with the
Planning Commission by the owner or owners of the land involved. The general
plan (which may be set forth on one or more maps or in one or more instruments)
shall have been signed by all owners of property within the project, shall have
been drawn to a scale and shall have been prepared by an architect, landscape
architect, or planner-in-charge authorized to practice in the city.
      (2)   All general plans for the establishment of a planned residential
district shall be presented to the Planning Commission with an application in
the form to be prescribed. The Planning Commission shall charge for processing
of the application of the proposed improvements a fee of $100 for each
application.
         (a)   The general plan shall include a declaration by the developer
which furnishes the following:
            1.   A general statement regarding the nature, acreage, and
location of open space, and descriptive data as to the methods to be employed
for guaranteeing its continuity and maintenance;
            2.   The general location and purpose of all nonresidential
structures;
            3.   The areas of the project to be used for single-family
dwellings; two-family dwellings; townhouses, garden apartment buildings
indicating for each such area the number of housing units by type and size, and
the number of bedrooms per unit of each class of housing proposed in any given
area;
            4.   The total population density for the project in number of
housing units;
            5.   Descriptive data concerning the sewer, water, and storm
drainage facilities within the project, identifying the entity whether public
or private to whom such facilities are to be dedicated or transferred; and
            6.   General description of the availability of other community
facilities, such as schools, fire and police protection services and cultural
facilities, if any, and how these facilities are affected by this proposal.
         (b)   The general plan shall also include conceptual and schematic
plans at a scale of 1 = 100 or less, incorporating the following elements:
            1.   An area map showing adjacent property owners and existing land
uses within 200 feet of the parcel;
            2.   The boundaries of the project including a legal description of
the rectangular survey of the parcel and the acreage therein;
            3.   Existing contours at one foot intervals, accompanied by
outline of grading plans;
            4.   The proposed street system for the project, including
designation of collection thoroughfares are indicated on the White Hall Master
Street Plan, or where otherwise necessary for efficient vehicular circulation;
            5.   Drainage control including a plan showing provisions for
control of erosion and sedimentation during and after construction; such plan
shall be accompanied by documentation indicating the review and recommendation
of said plan by the Jefferson County Soil Conservation District;
            6.   Location of main and accessory structures accompanied by an
outline explaining intended heights, coverage, and treatment of yards within
the project;
            7.   Location, size and landscaping of the proposed parking lots
within the project;
            8.   Pedestrian circulation features, walks and paved areas within
the project;
            9.   Landscaping and forestry features;
            10.   Principle ties to the community at large with respect to
transportation, water supply and sewage collection and treatment;
            11.   General nature and location of public and private utilities
and community facilities and services, including maintenance facilities within
the project;
            12.   Recreational and other non-building areas designated within
the project; and
            13.   Soil interpretive map indicating degree of limitation.
         (c)   Common open space information, including:
            1.   Percentage of acreage of common open space in each part of the
project;
            2.   General nature of common open space use; and
            3.   Topographical factors affecting common open space.
         (d)   A document describing the proposed phasing program for the
project for all dwelling units, non-dwelling structures, recreational and other
common facilities, and open space improvements.
   (B)   General plan approval.
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall review the general plan and shall
render a written report to the applicant within 60 days after the filing of an
application for a conditional zoning certificate.
      (2)   The Planning Commission may call upon other public and/or private
consultants necessary to provide a sound review of the project. These
departments and/or consultants need only concern themselves with general
conceptual merit, and in no way shall commit any further acceptance or
rejection of detailed design elements required in the final approval of uses.
(See § 154.072.) The written finding shall include the following:
         (a)   The relationship, beneficial or adverse, of the proposed planned
residential development to the neighborhood in which it is proposed to be
established;
         (b)   Whether there are adequate services and utilities available or
proposed to be made available in the construction of the project;
         (c)   Whether the proposal meets the intent and objectives for planned
residential developments as expressed in §
154.060;
         (d)   Whether the proposal meets all general regulations for planned
residential development of Section III; and
         (e)   Whether the proposal meets all the general requirements
pertinent to conditional uses as stated in this subchapter.
      (3)   Upon approval of the general plan by the Planning Commission, a
conditional zoning certificate may be issued for the project. Therefore, the
developer shall within two years prepare and secure final approval of uses for
any specific area within the project or the overall project, or the conditional
zoning certificate shall automatically expire. The implementation of the
project is then
subject to further qualifications, requirements and provisions set forth below.
No substantial change from the approved general plan shall be made without
prior approval by the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 101, passed 4-11-77)
§ 154.072 FINAL APPROVAL.
   (A)   Final development plan. Before such uses as were authorized by the
Planning Commission's approval of the general plan and the issuance of the
conditional zoning certificate for the overall project may be begun, a zoning
certificate must be obtained for each structure, and only after final approval
of uses has been obtained from the Planning Commission. For final approval of
uses, the owner shall file a final development plan for any specific area
within the project or the overall project with the Planning Commission together
with a letter of application for such approval. Such final development plan
must show the following:
      (1)   The area to be developed and the area to be devoted to open spaces
for the use of all residents of the area with accurate acreage, courses, and
distances are determined by a licensed engineer or surveyor who shall sign such
plan and certify to accuracy thereof. The boundaries of any area for which
final development plan approval is requested shall not be gerry-mandered to
comply with the density and open space acreage criteria but shall be
proportioned and allotted so that required open space is convenient to the
residential properties included in the area submitted for final approval.
      (2)   The location and floor plans of all buildings, descriptive data as
to the type of buildings, the number of dwelling units in each separate type
and bedrooms per unit of apartment (multi-family dwelling) buildings, and the
number of bedrooms in each apartment unit.
      (3)   A title guarantee or rider to an existing policy, prepared by a
reputable title company, showing the legal description of the land which has
been set aside for open space, and showing appropriate restrictions, limiting
the use of such land to recreation and open space in perpetuity; granting
owners and residents of the area to be developed a right and easement of use in
such open space.
      (4)   A detailed plan setting forth the manner, means and proposed time
of transfer of the land reserved for open space to a nonprofit entity and the
obligations and rights of use of such open space by all residents of the area.
      (5)   A detailed landscaping plan for all areas proposed for parking,
two-family, and multi-family development.
   (B)   Conditions for final approval of uses. The Planning Commission shall
review the final development plan and approve, modify and approve or disapprove
an application for final approval of uses and transmit notice thereof to the
applicant within 30 days after the filing of an application for final approval
of uses in planning unit residential development. The Planning Commission shall
give the final approval of uses only upon finding that the following conditions
are met:
      (1)   No applicable, general or specific requirement of the zoning
ordinance, as existing at the time of general plan approval, is violated by the
final development plan.
      (2)   The final development plan accurately sets forth the area to be
developed and the area to be set aside as open space with appropriate
boundaries established by course and distances and the acreage within the area
to be approved is set forth as well as the acreage of the area to be set aside
as open space for the use of all residents of the area.
      (3)   The final development plan is substantially in accordance with the
general plan which had been previously filed with and approved by the Planning
Commission and for which the conditional zoning certificate had been issued.
      (4)   The density of dwelling units in any area does not exceed that
shown on the general plan. The overall density of the district has not been
exceeded with respect to the total figure shown on the general plan.
      (5)   The area reserved for open space and recreation in the sum of all
areas for which final development plan approval has been given or is requested
shall never be less than 25% of the cumulative acreage of all areas for which
final development plan approval has been given or requested.
      (6)   Satisfactory progress has been made in previously approved segments
with respect to the provision and improvement of indicated recreational
facilities.
      (7)   The final development plan accurately sets forth a schedule
demonstrating proportionate development of the open space and recreational
facilities in conjunction with the total project. A performance bond may be
allowed to substitute for actual construction. Any such construction covered by
a performance bond shall be completed within one year. The amenities included
in each phase shall be, in effect, completed prior to the issuance of occupance
permits.
(Ord. 101, passed 4-11-77)
§ 154.073 SUBDIVISION PROCESSING.
   (A)   Subdivision plans. Within six months of final approval of uses for any
specific area within the project or the overall project, subdivision plans for
the area shown on the final development plan shall be submitted in accordance
with the subdivision regulations. Subdivision plans shall show the following:
      (1)   Exact engineering data on boundaries, streets and ways, easements,
parcels for sale and monuments, in accord with subdivision regulations.
      (2)   Monuments for angles and intersection points on survey line of
public streets.
      (3)   Cross reference to recorded final development plan.
   (B)   Documents.
      (1)   At the time subdivision plans are filed with the Planning
Commission, the developer shall also file:
         (a)   Project cost estimates for all public improvements in the
subdivision plan.
         (b)   Other statements required by the subdivision regulations.
      (2)   Within 60 days after the complete subdivision application is filed,
with all necessary documents and exhibits, the Planning Commission must
approve, approve and modify or disapprove it.
      (3)   Upon approval of the subdivision application, the Planning
Commission shall notify the applicant, by certified mail, and thereafter upon
payment of the required fee by the applicant, the maps and other related
documents may be recorded in the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 101, passed 4-11-77)
§ 154.074 FAILURE TO BEGIN.
   (A)   If no construction has begun in the planned residential development
within one year from the approval of a final subdivision plan for the overall
project or any part thereof and recording the documents, final approval of uses
shall lapse and be of no further effect. The Planning Commission, for good
cause, may extend for periods of up to one year the time for beginning
construction.
   (B)   If an approved final approval uses shall be provided herein, notice of
such lapse shall be recorded by the Planning Commission, and thereafter such
approval be considered as having been revoked.
   (C)   Nothing herein shall be considered as effecting such lapse and
revocation if the developer commences construction. If construction commences,
the final approval of uses approval may be modified only in accordance with §
154.075.
(Ord. 101, passed 4-11-77)
§ 154.075 ALTERATIONS, ADDITIONS OR DELETIONS.
   The development shall conform to the approved final development plan and the
approved subdivision plan. The applicant, his successors and assignees shall
make no alterations, additions or deletions to the final development plan, the
related documents, or to the site, except as provided herein. Upon final
approval of uses, changes may be made only pursuant to a new submission of a
planned residential development application which shall be processed and
approved in accordance with
this chapter. The Planning Commission may authorize minor changes, provided
that the overall density is not increased, without a new planned residential
development application.
(Ord. 101, passed 4-11-77)
§ 154.076 PHASING.
   (A)   The establishment of common open spaces and construction of public or
common recreational facilities shown on the recorded final development plan
together with the construction of other nonresidential structures shall proceed
substantially in accordance with the phasing program referred to in §
154.071(A)(2)(d), General Submission, herein.
   (B)   After general construction commences, the developer shall submit
progress reports every six months to the Planning Commission who shall review
all building permits issued and compare them to the overall development phasing
program. If it is determined that the rate of construction of residential units
or nonresidential structures substantially differs from the phasing program,
they shall so notify the developer in writing.
   (C)   Thereafter, the Planning Commission may issue such orders to the
developer as it sees fit, and upon continued violation of this section may
suspend the developer from further construction of dwelling units or
nonresidential structures until compliance is achieved.
(Ord. 101, passed 4-11-77)
§ 154.077 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Whenever the Planning Commission shall find, in the case of any
approved final development plan, that any of the terms, conditions, or
restrictions upon which final approval of uses, §
154.072 herein, was granted are not being complied with, the Planning
Commission may rescind and revoke such approval. Notice thereof shall be given
in accordance with §
154.074.
   (B)   Violation of the final approval of uses for planned residential
development, as approved shall constitute violation of the zoning code.
(Ord. 101, passed 4-11-77)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 154.090 BOARD OF ZONING ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   Organization. A Board of Zoning Adjustment is hereby created which
shall consist of the Planning Commission as a whole and the Chairman of the one
shall likewise be the Chairman of the other.
   (B)   Meetings. The Board of Zoning Adjustment shall establish regular
meeting dates, adopt rules for the conduct of its business, establish a quorum
and procedure, and keep a public record of all findings and decisions. Each
session of the Board of Zoning Adjustment shall be a public meeting with public
notice of the meeting and business to be carried on published in a newspaper of
general circulation in the city, at least one time, seven days prior to the
meeting.
   (C)   Powers. The Board of Zoning Adjustment shall have the following
powers:
      (1)   To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is an error in
any order, requirement, decision or determination made by the Zoning
Administrator in the enforcement of these regulations and may affirm or
reverse, in whole or part, the decision of the enforcement officer.
      (2)   To hear requests for variances from the literal provisions of the
zoning regulations in instances where strict enforcement of the zoning
regulations would cause undue hardship due to circumstances unique to the
individual property under consideration, and grant such variances only when it
is demonstrated that such action will be in keeping with the spirit and intent
of the provisions of the zoning regulations. The Board of Zoning Adjustment
shall not permit, as a variance, any use in a zone that is not permitted under
the regulations. The Board of Zoning Adjustment may impose conditions in the
granting of a variance to insure and to protect adjacent property.
      (3)   To hold hearings on, and decide the following exceptions to or
variations of these regulations:
         (a)   To permit the extension of a district where the boundary line
thereof divides a lot held in a single ownership at the time of adoption of
these regulations.
         (b)   Interpret the provisions of these regulations in such a way as
to carry out the intent and purpose of the plan, as shown upon the zoning map
where the street layout on the ground varies from the street layout as shown on
this map.
         (c)   Classify commercial or industrial uses which are likely to
create hazards and reviews the locations of proposed industrial uses.
      (4)   The Board may hear applications and take such action as permitted
on matters specifically referred to it under these regulations.
(Ord. 26, passed 10-24-67)
§ 154.091 APPEALS.
   (A)   An appeal shall be made to the Board of Zoning Adjustment by any
person, group or organization, public or private, affected by a decision of the
Zoning Administrator.
   (B)   An appeal petition stating the section of the zoning ordinance that is
being appealed and the basis for the appeal shall be filed with the City Clerk
25 days before the Board of Zoning Adjustment’s public hearing.
   (C)   A fee of $50 shall be accompanied with the appeal petition.
   (D)   The Board of Zoning Adjustment shall hold a public hearing on the
appeal. Notice of the appeal shall be published in a newspaper of general
circulation in the city, at least seven days prior to the hearing.
   (E)   The Board of Zoning Adjustment shall either uphold the Zoning
Administrator’s decision, or concur with the applicant’s appeal.
   (F)   Appeals from the decision of the Board of Zoning Adjustment shall be
to a court of record within 30 days from the decision of the Board of Zoning
Adjustment in accordance with Act 186 of 1957 General Assembly as amended,
being A.C. §§ 14-56-401 through 14-56-425.
(Ord. 26, passed 10-24-67; Am. Ord. 316, passed 12-17-01)
§ 154.092 VARIANCE AND SPECIAL USE PERMITS.
   (A)   Variance requests shall be made by any property owner who desires to
obtain a variance from the zoning regulations.
   (B)   A variance petition stating the section of the zoning regulations that
the request is being made for, a drawing prepared to scale showing the variance
requested, and statement as to why the variance request is being made shall be
filed with the City Clerk 30 days before the Board of Zoning public hearing.
   (C)   A fee of $75 shall accompany the variance request.
   (D)   The Board of Zoning Adjustment shall hold a public hearing on the
appeal. Notice of the appeal shall be published in a newspaper of general
circulation in the city at least seven days prior to the hearing.
   (E)   The Board of Zoning Adjustment shall hear requests for variances from
the stated provisions of the zoning regulations in only where strict compliance
with the provisions of the regulations would cause undue hardship due to the
circumstance unique to the individual’s property under consideration.
   (F)   The Board of Zoning Adjustment may grant variances only when it is
demonstrated that such action will be in keeping with the spirit and intent of
the zoning regulations.
   (G)   The Board of Zoning Adjustment may impose conditions on the granting
of the variance to insure compliance and protection to other adjacent property.
   (H)   Appeals of variance decision of the Board of Zoning Adjustment shall
be to a court of record within 30 days from the decision of the Board of Zoning
Adjustment in accordance with Act 186 of 1957 General Assembly as amended,
being A.C. §§ 14-56-401 through 14-56-425.
(Ord. 26, passed 10-24-67; Am. Ord. 316, passed 12-17-01)
§ 154.092-1 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   Conditional use request shall be made by the property owner who
desires to use his or her property in accordance with one of the listed
conditional uses as identified in the zoning regulations.
   (B)   A conditional use application giving the legal description of the
property, the stated conditional use requested, a drawing of the property
prepared to scale showing all the pertinent information concerning the use of
the property and building on the property shall be filed by the property owner
with the City Clerk 30 days of receipt of the Planning Commission.
   (C)   The property owner shall file with his or her petition proof that
certified return receipt letters have been sent to all property owners owning
property that adjoins the property for which the conditional use petition is
being filed, including properties across any street or public right-of-way. The
letter shall state what the proposed conditional use application is for, and
the time and place where the public hearing will be held. The property owners
who are to be notified as owners shall be those property owners as recorded in
the County Assessor's office.
   (D)   A fee of $75 shall accompany the conditional use request.
   (E)   The Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing on the conditional
use request. Notice of the public hearing shall be published in a newspaper of
general circulation in the city, at least one time seven days prior to the
hearing.
   (F)   Following the public hearing the conditional use request may be
approved in its entirety, modified, and/or conditions placed on the conditional
use request to insure that conditional use request is compatible with the
existing uses in the neighborhood and the intended use listed in the
regulations.
   (G)   If the Planning Commission disapproves the proposed conditional use
request, the reason for such disapproval shall be given in writing to the
petitioner within 15 days from the date the Planning Commission acts on the
request.
   (H)   Following the disapproval of the petitioner’s request, the petitioner
may appeal such disapproval to the City Clerk why he considers the Planning
Commission’s findings and decisions are in error. Such appeal shall be filed
within 15 days after receipt of notice of the Planning Commission's action.
Also an adjacent property owner may appeal the conditional use approval to the
City Clerk why he or she considers the Planning Commission’s findings and
decisions are in error. Such appeals shall be filed within 15 days from the
date the Planning Commission approves the conditional use request.
   (I)   The City Council may either send the petitioner’s request back to the
Planning Commission for further consideration or take any action the City
Council feels is appropriate and is compatible with the existing land use
within the neighborhood and in the best interest of the public health and
safety of the city.
   (J)   No application for a conditional use request will be reconsidered by
the Planning Commission within 12 months from the date of final disapproval
unless the Commission finds a substantial reason exists for waving this
limitation.
(Ord. 316, passed 12-17-01; Am. Ord. 327, passed 10-21-02)
§ 154.093 NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING.
   Whenever an appeal or application for a variance or special use permit is
made to the Board, the Board shall cause to have published at the expense of
the appellant or applicant a notice of the time and place of the public hearing
upon such appeal or application, which notice shall be published at least once
not less than seven days preceding the date of such hearing in an official
paper or a paper of general circulation in the city, the notice to designate
the particular location with which the appeal or application is concerned, and
a brief statement as to what the appeal of application consists of. The Board
shall also give or cause to be given such additional notice of such hearing to
interested persons and organizations as it shall deem feasible and practicable.
(Ord. 26, passed 10-24-67)
§ 154.094 AMENDMENTS TO ZONING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Amendments by public body.
      (1)   The City Council may suggest that the Planning Commission amend the
text of these regulations, or the Planning Commission itself may desire to
initiate an amendment.
      (2)   Amendments to the text proposed by the Planning Commission shall be
advertised in a paper of general circulation at least 15 days in advance of a
public hearing to be conducted by the Planning Commission. After the public
hearing, the Planning Commission shall make a report and recommendation to the
City Council pertaining to the proposed amendment to the text. The City Council
action on the report and recommendation shall be final.
   (B)   Amendments by the city.
      (1)   The City Council may suggest that the Planning Commission amend the
text of the zoning regulations and/or the zoning classification as shown on the
zoning map, or the Planning Commission itself may desire to initiate an
amendment.
      (2)   Amendments to the text and/or map proposed by the Planning
Commission shall be advertised in a paper of general circulation at least 15
days in advance of a public hearing to be conducted by the Planning Commission.
After the public hearing, the Planning Commission shall make recommendations to
the City Council concerning the proposed amendments. The City Council shall
either approve or deny the recommendations or send the recommendations back to
the Planning Commission for further study. After reconsideration by the
Planning Commission, the City Council can take any action it deems appropriate
on the Planning Commission recommendations.
   (C)   Amendments by individual property owners.
      (1)   A zoning amendment petition, giving the legal description of the
property, zoning classification requested and a drawing prepared to scale
showing the property requested to be rezoned shall be filed by the property
owner with the City Clerk 30 days before the Planning Commission public
hearing.
      (2)   The property owner shall file with his or her petition proof that
certified return receipt letters have been sent to all property owners owning
property that adjoins property for which the rezoning petition is being filed,
including properties across any street or public right-of-way. The letter shall
state what the existing zoning classification is, what the petitioner is
requesting his or her property be rezoned as, and the time and place where the
public hearing will be held. The property owners who are to be notified as
owners shall be those property owners as recorded in the County Assessor's
Office.
      (3)   A fee of $100 shall accompany the special use request.
      (4)   The Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing on a proposed
amendment. Notice of the public hearing shall be published in a newspaper of
general circulation in the city, at least one time 15 days prior to the
hearing.
      (5)   Following the public hearing, the proposed amendment may be
approved as presented or in modified form by a majority vote of the Planning
Commission membership. The Commission shall justify its recommendations to the
City Council.
      (6)   If the Planning Commission disapproves a proposed zoning amendment,
the reason for such disapproval shall be given in writing to the petitioner
within 15 days from the date the Planning Commission acts on the petitioners
request.
      (7)   The City Council, by majority vote, may by ordinance adopt the
recommended amendment submitted by the Planning Commission or may return the
proposed change to the Planning Commission for further study and
recommendations. If the City Council does not concur with the recommendations
of the Planning Commission, either as first submitted or as submitted after re-
study, the City Council may, by a majority vote, amend these regulations by
granting the request for a proposed change in zoning classification in full or
in modified form.
      (8)   Following disapproval of a proposed amendment by the Planning
Commission, the petitioner may appeal such disapproval to the City Clerk why he
or she considers the Planning Commission’s findings and decisions are in error.
Such appeal shall be filed with the City Clerk within 15 days of receipt of
notice of Planning Commission action.
      (9)   The City Council may review the action the Planning Commission has
taken on the proposed amendment and may approve the proposed amendment only by
not less than three-fourths vote of the Council membership.
      (10)   No application for a change in zoning classification will be
reconsidered by the Planning Commission within 12 months from date of final
disapproval unless the Commission finds a substantial reason exists for waiving
this limitation.
(Ord. 26, passed 10-24-67; Am. Ord. 316, passed 12-17-01; Am. Ord. 327, passed
10-21-02)
§ 154.095 REGIONAL ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Regional Zoning Administrator shall be responsible for the
administration and enforcement of these regulations.
(Ord. 26, passed 10-24-67)
§ 154.096 ZONING PERMITS.
   (A)   No structure shall be erected, added to, or externally altered without
a zoning permit. No building permit shall issued except in conformity with the
provisions of these regulations, unless by written order of the Board of Zoning
Adjustment.
   (B)   All applications for zoning permits shall show dimensions and shape of
the lot to be built upon; the sizes and locations on the lot of structures
already existing, if any, and the location and dimensions of the proposed
structure or alteration. The application shall include such other information
as lawfully may be required, including existing or proposed structural
alterations; existing or proposed uses of structures and land; the number of
families, housekeeping units, or rental units the structure is designed to
accommodate; conditions existing on the lot; and such other matters as may be
necessary to determine conformance with, and provide for the enforcement of,
these regulations.
(Ord. 26, passed 10-24-67)
§ 154.097 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Purpose. Certificates of occupancy are required to ensure that
completed structures and the development of property of which such structures
are a part comply with the provisions of this chapter, as well as any site
plans or conditional approvals for such structures and development, and other
city regulations as pertain to construction and development.
   (B)   Authority. The Building Inspector shall have the authority and
responsibility to issue and keep records of certificates of occupancy in
accordance with the requirements set forth in this chapter.
   (C)   Certificate of occupancy required. No new structure or addition to an
existing structure shall be occupied and no use of a building shall be changed
unless a certificate of occupancy is issued therefor by the Building Inspector.
   (D)   Procedure.
      (1)   Application. A certificate of occupancy shall be applied for
coincident with the application for a building permit and will be issued before
occupancy and connection of utilities to such building.
      (2)   Action on application. The Building Inspector or his or her
designated agent shall inspect the property which is the subject of an
application within a reasonable time after a completed application has been
filed and shall issue a certificate of occupancy if the premises of the
property comply in all respects with the applicable development regulations in
effect. If the premises do not so comply, the Building Inspector shall deny the
application in a written notice mailed to the applicant within five days after
the inspection of the property, specifying the provisions of which section with
which the structure or development does not comply.
      (3)   Contents of certificate of occupancy. Information required for
submission to obtain a certificate of occupancy shall include:
         (a)   Name of applicant.
         (b)   Nature and extent of the applicant's ownership interest in the
subject property.
         (c)   Address of the property for which a certificate is requested.
         (d)   A legal description of the property, the zoning classification
for the property, and a statement that the use of the property is allowed or
permitted in the zoning classification for the property.
         (e)   If a site plan or other conditional approval for the structure
or the development of which such structure is a part was required, a copy of
any document granting such approval and plans approved in connection therewith.
         (f)   Such other information as requested by the building inspector to
ensure conformance with applicable development regulations.
      (4)   Temporary certificates of occupancy.
         (a) A temporary certificate of occupancy may be issued for a portion
or portions of a building which may safely be occupied prior to final
completion of the building or other development
to the property. However, such temporary certificate may be issued only when
the proposed construction or other proposed property development is an addition
or modification to an existing structure or existing development. It also may
be used for a transient use which, due to its nature, is not required to comply
with permanent construction regulations.
         (b) A temporary certificate of occupancy shall be valid for a period
not exceeding six months. For additions or modifications to an existing
structure or existing development, an extension of this time period for an
additional six months may be granted by the Building Inspector if the applicant
can show that circumstances beyond the applicant's control have caused delays
in the project's completion. Upon expiration of the initial temporary
certificate or extension thereof, the applicant of the addition or modification
must apply for a certificate of occupancy. For transient uses, upon expiration
of the temporary certificate, the structure must be removed from the site and
may not be resituated on the site for a period of six months. However, when
transient uses as defined in §
154.003 are for charitable purposes such as fund raising and are located on the
site for a period of 72 hours or less, or when the uses are special events
declared by the city, temporary certificates of occupancy are not required.
         (c) A temporary certificate shall not be construed as in any way
altering the respective rights, duties or obligations of the owners or of the
city relating to the use or occupancy or any other matter required by this
section.
(Ord. 260, passed 2-17-98)
§ 154.098 FEES.
   The following fees shall be established for applications and permits
provided for by these regulations to defray the costs of advertising, mailing
notices, processing, inspecting, and copying applications, permits, and use
permits:
   (A)   Zoning review: $10;
   (B)   Minor impact home occupation: $10;
   (C)   Conditional use permit, including major impact home occupation: $75;
   (D)   Rezoning: $100;
   (E)   Variance: $35;
   (F)   Zoning Administrator appeal: $35;
   (G)   Street and alley closing: $100; and
   (H)   Manufactured home subdivision or park: $50 plus $2 per lot.
(Ord. 26, passed 10-24-67; Am. Ord. 260, passed 2-17-98; Am. Ord. 341, passed
5-19-03)
§ 154.099 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   If the Zoning Administrator shall find that the provisions of these
regulations are being violated, he shall notify in writing the person
responsible for such violations, indicating the nature of the violation and
ordering the action necessary to correct it.
   (B)   Should the persons responsible for such violation fail to take the
necessary action to correct it, the Zoning Administrator shall notify the
Planning Commission and City Council of the violation and shall certify the
violation to the City Attorney. The City Attorney shall thereafter apply to
Chancery Court for an injunction mandamus, or other process to prevent, enjoin,
abate, or remove said violation to these regulations.
(Ord. 26, passed 10-24-67; Am. Ord. 160, passed 4-14-86; Am. Ord. 260, passed
2-17-98)
§ 154.999 PENALTY.
   Any person or corporation who shall violate any of the provisions of this
chapter or fail to comply herewith or with any of the requirements hereof, or
who shall build or alter any building in violation of any detailed statement of
plan submitted and approved hereunder, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and
shall be liable of a fine of not more than $100. Each day such violation is
permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense. The owner or owners of
any building or premises or part thereof where anything in violation of this
chapter shall be placed, or shall exist, and any architect, builder,
contractor, agent, person, or corporation employed in connection therewith and
who may have assisted in the commission of any such violation shall be guilty
of a separate offense and upon conviction thereof, shall be fined as
hereinbefore provided.
(Ord. 26, passed 10-24-67)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I. AGREEMENTS
      
II. ANNEXATIONS
      
III. FRANCHISES
      
IV. STREET NAME CHANGES
      
V. VACATIONS
      
VI. ZONING MAP CHANGES
      
VII. DISTRICT IMPROVEMENT
TABLE I: AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Agreement between the city and the Southwestern Bell
3        11-12-64    Telephone Company agreeing that the telephone company
                     shall continue to operate its telephone system and all
                     business incidental to the business in the city
                     Providing for an agreement between the City of White Hall,
24       6-2-67      the City of Pine Bluff and Jefferson County for their
                     joint cooperation in area planning and the establishment
                     of a Southeast Arkansas Regional Planning Commission
                     Authorizing the Mayor and Recorder-Treasurer to enter into
29       4-23-68     an agreement with the State of Arkansas, to obtain
                     insurance coverage for employees of the city under the
                     provisions of the Federal Social Security Act
                     Agreement between the city and the Southwestern Bell
42       5-28-70     Telephone Company agreeing that the telephone company
                     shall continue to operate its telephone system and all
                     business incidental to the business in the city
144      4-9-84      Amending Ord. 42
                     Providing for emergency purchase of a police package
250      1-1-97      vehicle to replace disabled police vehicle and authorizing
                     the Mayor to secure purchase of a 1997 Ford from Clinton-
                     Brannen Motor Company in Unadilla, Georgia
                     Authorizing the city administration to purchase supplies
269      11-16-98    as necessary from Arkansas Police Products(also known as
                     "The Cop Shop"), which is owned and operated by an elected
                     councilmember
                     Authorizing the city administration to purchase supplies
270      11-16-98    and/or services as necessary from Foster Towing &
                     Recovering, which is owned and operated by an elected
                     councilmember
367      1-18-05     Authorizing execution of a contract to purchase used
                     vehicles and appropriating funds
                     Authorizing the city administration to utilize services as
418      11-16-09    necessary from Sandy Acres Auto Sales and Sandy Acres
                     Grocery and Market, which are owned and operated by a
                     councilmember
422      4-19-10     Authorizing the Mayor to purchase two police vehicles
469      4-21-14     Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to enter into a lease
                     agreement with Liberty Utilities
472      6-16-14     Authorizing services from Catering by Scott Ray, which is
                     owned and operated by a Council member
488      7-18-2016   Authorizing purchases from a company owned and operated by
                     a Council member
489      7-18-2016   Authorizing purchases from Johnson Metal Recyclers, which
                     is owned and operated by an elected Council member
510      9-17-18     Authorizing purchases from RazorShred & Records
                     Management, which is owned by an elected Council member
514      1-22-19     Authorizing the Mayor to purchase police vehicles
517      3-25-19     Authorizing the Mayor to trade or sell two current
                     vehicles and purchase two new Public Works vehicles
519      6-17-19     Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to execute emergency
                     bridge repair/replacement on Gamble Road
522      9-16-19     Authorizing purchases from CJC Services of WH LLC, which
                     is operated by a family member of a city employee
                     Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to finance the
523      9-16-19     purchase of a new fire truck and purchase a pre-owned
                     ladder truck
525      1-21-20     Authorizing the Mayor to purchase police vehicles
527      5-18-20     Authorizing the Mayor and City Clerk to finance the
                     purchase of a pre-owned excavator
                     Accepting the State maintained portion of the local access
530      10-19-20    road on the Interstate 530 Frontage Road System signed as
                     Claud Road, from the vicinity of Boast Road to U.S. Hwy
                     270, into the City Street System
533      6-21-21     Authorizing the City Administration to utilize services as
                     necessary from FBT Bank.
                     Authorizing the Mayor to execute the purchase of a used
536      1-18-22     2021 Chevrolet Tahoe and trade in of a 2019 Chevrolet
                     Suburban
540      6-20-22     Accepting funds from the Federal Government through the
                     American Rescue Plan Act
543      9-19-22     Authorizing the Mayor to purchase a tracked skid steer
                     loader with attachments
544      10-17-22    Authorizing the Mayor to purchase up to two pre-owned or
                     new vehicles
                     Authorizing the Mayor to hire Advanced Roofing and
548      3-27-23     Remodeling for the work needed at Crenshaw Springs Water
                     Park
550      8-21-23     Authorizing the Mayor to purchase a pre-owned tractor with
                     a side mower
 
TABLE II: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description
                      Annexing the south half of the northeast quarter of the
                      southwest quarter of section 16, township 5 south, range
37        9-23-69     10 west; and the south 30 feet of the north half of the
                      northeast quarter of the southwest quarter of section 16,
                      township 5 south range 10 west
                      Annexing the south half of the southeast quarter of the
                      northeast quarter in section 21, township 5 south, range
                      10 west of the 5th P.M.; and the north half of the
                      northwest quarter of the southeast quarter in section 21,
53        11-23-71    township 5 south, range 10 west of the 5th P.M.; and one
                      acre in a square in the northeast corner of the west half
                      of the southeast quarter of the northwest quarter of the
                      southeast quarter of section 21, township 5 south, range
                      10 west of the 5th P.M.
                      Annexing a part of the northwest quarter of section 22,
                      township 5 south, range 10 west, more particularly
                      described as beginning at the northwest corner of the
54        11-23-71    south half of the northwest quarter of the northwest
                      quarter of said section 22; and the west 120 feet of the
                      north 363 feet of the south half of the northeast quarter
                      of the northwest quarter of section 22, township 5 south,
                      range 10 west.
                      Annexing certain territory, beginning at the northeast
                      corner of the northwest quarter of the southeast quarter
56        1-25-72     of section 16,township 5 south, range 10 west, which
                      point is where the west line of the present city limits
                      intersects with the south line of White Hall City Park
                      Annexing the north half of the northwest quarter of the
                      southeast quarter of the southeast quarter of section 9,
                      township 5 south, range 10 west; and the northwest
                      quarter of the southeast quarter of section 9, township 5
66        2-13-73     south, range 10 west; and the northwest quarter of the
                      southeast quarter of section 9, township 5 south, range
                      10 west; and all of the northeast quarter of the
                      southeast quarter of section 9, township 5 south, range
                      10 west, lying south and west of the center line of the
                      Arkansas Power and Light Company right-of-way
                      Annexing a tract of land situated in part of the
87        8-11-75     southwest quarter of the southwest quarter of section 15,
                      township 5 south, range 10 west, Jefferson County,
                      Arkansas
                      Annexing certain territory beginning at the northeast
                      corner of the southwest quarter of section 9, township 5
118       3-10-80     south, range 10 west, thence west along the north
                      boundary of the southwest quarter, section 9, township 5
                      south, range 10 west
                      Annexing certain territory beginning 123 feet west of the
119       4-14-80     northeast corner of the southeast quarter of the
                      northwest quarter of section 22, township 5 south, range
                      10 west in Jefferson County
                      Annexing two parcels:
                      Beginning 120 feet east of the northeast corner of
                      Carter's Addition in Section 22, township 5 south, range
145       4-9-84      10 west;
                      Beginning 123 feet west of the northeast corner of
                      southeast quarter, northwest quarter, section 22,
                      township 5 south, range 10 west
                      Annexing certain territory beginning at the intersection
                      of the north boundary line of the southeast quarter of
153       5-6-85      the southwest quarter of Section 22, township 5 south,
                      range 10 west and the west right-of-way line of U.S.
                      Highway 365 running thence south
154       5-6-85      Annexing certain territory beginning at the northeast
                      corner of the southwest quarter of section 22-5-10
                      Annexing certain territory beginning at the northwest
                      corner of the southeast quarter of the northwest quarter;
                      thence east 6.26 chains, south 13.60 chains to the
190       4-9-90      centerline of Hulse Road; thence along the centerline of
                      the road in a southwesterly direction a distance of 7.80
                      chains; thence north 18.20 chains to the point of
                      beginning
                      Annexing certain territory beginning at the southwest
254       6-16-97     corner of the northeast northwest section 29, township 5
                      south, range 10 west, same point being on the city limit
                      line.
                      Annexing certain territory beginning at the southeast
                      corner of the west half of the northeast quarter of the
                      northeast quarter of section 28-5-10; thence east 177.57
                      feet; thence north 194 feet; thence west 16.9 feet;
396       5-21-07     thence north to the north right-of-way line of Sheridan
                      Road; thence north 60 degrees, 30 minutes along right-of-
                      way line to the east line of the west half of the
                      northeast quarter of the northeast quarter of section 28-
                      5-10; thence south to the point of beginning.
                      Annexing certain territory beginning at the northwest
                      corner of the NE 1/4 of the NE 1/4 of section 8 T5S R10W;
                      thence north to the northeast corner of the SW 1/4 of the
397       5-21-07     SE 1/4 of section 5 T5S R10W; thence west to the
                      northwest corner of the SE 1/4 of the SW 1/4 of section 5
                      T5S R10W; thence south to the north line of section 8 T5S
                      R10W; thence east to the point of beginning.
                      Annexing certain territory beginning at the northwest
                      corner of section 20 T5S R10W; thence east to the
                      northwest corner of the NE 1/4 of section 20 T5S R10W;
                      thence south along the west line of the NE 1/4 of section
402       12-17-07    20 T5S R10W; thence in a northwesterly direction along
                      right- of-way line to the west line of right-of-way line
                      of Sandy Acres Road; thence north on the west line of
                      Sandy Acres Road to the south line of section 18 T5S
                      R10W; thence east to point of beginning.
                      Annexing certain territory beginning at the northwest
                      corner of the NE 1/4 of the NE 1/4 of section 8 T5S R10W;
                      thence north to the northeast corner of the SW 1/4 of the
CC2007-11 4-5-07      SE 1/4 of section 5 T5S R10W; thence west to the
                      northwest corner of the SE 1/4 of the SW 1/4 of section 5
                      T5S R10W; thence south to the north line of section 8 T5S
                      R10W; thence east to the point of beginning.
423       5-17-10     Annexing certain territory located in the NE 1/4 of the
                      SE 1/4 of section 29, T5S, R10W of the 5th P.M.
430       9-20-10     Annexing certain territory located in the SE 1/4 of the
                      NW 1/4 of section 9 T5S, R10W of the 5th P.M.
436       5-16-11     Annexing certain territory located in the SE 1/4 of the
                      NW 1/4 of section 20, T5S, R10W.
458       12-16-13    Annexing certain territory located in part of the NE 1/
                      4 of section 9, T5S, R10W of the 5th P.M.
463       3-17-14     Annexing certain territory commencing at the NE corner of
                      the NE SE in section 20, T5S, R10W of the 5th P.M.
 
TABLE III: FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
2        10-29-64    Granting exclusive rights, privileges and authorities to
                     the Arkansas Power and Light Company
16       11-23-65    Granting exclusive rights, privileges and authorities to
                     the Arkansas Power and Light Company
124      1-12-81     Granting a franchise to P.Q. Gardner d/b/a Atlas
                     Cablevision Company to operate a cable television system
                     Granting Arkla, a division of NorAm Energy Corp., the
244      10-21-96    exclusive right to sell, furnish and distribute natural
                     gas
                     Consenting to the change of control of Friendship Cable of
278      9-20-99     Arkansas, Inc. with respect to the cable television
                     franchise.
                     Granting a franchise to Pine Bluff Cable Television, Inc.
284      11-15-99    and its successors, lessors and assigns to operate and
                     maintain a cable television system and closed circuit
                     electronic system in the city.
                     Granting a franchise to Friendship Cable of Arkansas, Inc.
431      11-15-10    d/b/a Suddenlink Communications for the construction and
                     operation of a cable system.
467      4-21-14     Entering into a franchise agreement with Liberty Utilities
                     (White Hall Water) Corp. d/b/a Liberty Utilities.
468      4-21-14     Entering into a franchise agreement with Liberty Utilities
                     (White Hall Sewer) Corp. d/b/a Liberty Utilities.
                     Granting an exclusive franchise to Emergency Ambulance
507      2-20-18     Service, Inc. (ESAI), to provide Advanced Life Support and
                     Basic Life Support ambulance service on a fee for service
                     basis in the city.
 
TABLE IV: STREET NAME CHANGES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
97       10-11-76    Changing the name of Lexington Street to Patrick Henry
                     Place
557      9-16-24     Accepting Erica Lane into the street system
                    
 
TABLE V: VACATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
68       7-10-73     Vacating that portion of Home Avenue located between Lot 1
                     Block 4 and Lot 9 Block 1 Bateman Addition
                     Vacating that portion of the north-south unnamed street
105      6-12-78     between Lots 20 and 21 of Dollarway Heights addition and
                     located in between lots 1 and 2 of Bellevue Addition to
                     the City of Pine Bluff
                     Vacating the unnamed north-south platted right-of-way
                     located in the west lot line of Lots 13 and 4 of Dollarway
114      2-12-79     Heights Addition to the City of Pine Bluff. Said right-
                     of-way is located between Green Street and East Holland
                     Street.
                     Vacating that portion of the east-west streets located
120      7-14-80     between Lot 1 and 16, Block 3 Shady Acres Addition to the
                     city
                     Vacating a public sewer easement located in a part of the
181      12-12-88    south half of the northeast quarter of section 21,
                     township 5 south, range 10 west
                     Vacating approximately 470 feet of an unnamed platted
182      2-13-89     right-of-way located between Ruth Cove and East Holland
                     Street
                     Vacating the south 10 feet of the 20-foot public utility
186      10-16-89    easement across the north side of Lot 6 of Rolling Hills
                     East Subdivision
                     Vacating a portion of Betty Sue Drive beginning at its
242      10-21-96    intersection with Anderson Avenue and running south-
                     southeast for approximately 242 feet.
                     Vacating a portion of Betty Sue Drive beginning at its
256      9-15-97     intersection with Church Drive and running north-
                     northwest for approximately 300 feet.
298      7-24-00     Vacating a portion of Rock Street between E. Holland
                     Street and Green Street.
                     Vacating the portion of Beadle Avenue beginning at the
                     northeast corner of the right-of-way of Nancy Street
395      5-21-07     located in Shady Acres Subdivision, thence north 40 feet,
                     thence west 205 feet, thence south 40 feet, thence east
                     205 to the point of beginning.
                     Vacating a portion of Natural Street (formerly named
481      11-16-15    Dogwood Street) beginning at its intersection with Rock
                     Street and running west for approximately 195 feet.
 
TABLE VI: ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
     5-28-  Rezoning certain territory beginning at the southeast corner of Lot 12,
30   68     Dollarway Heights Subdivision of section 16, township 5 south, range 10 west,
            from Residential R-1 to Commercia l C-1
     8-27-  Rezoning certain territory commencin g at the southwest corner of the southeast
32   68     quarter of the southeast quarter in section 16, township 5 south, range 10
            west, from Residential R-1 to Commercia l C-1
     10-28- Rezoning a parcel of land located in the northwest quarter of the southeast
38   69     quarter of section 16 township 5 south range 10 west from Residential R-1 to
            Commercia l C-1
            Zoning the south half of the southeast quarter of the northeast quarter in
            section 21, township 5 south, range 10 west of the 5th P.M.; and the north half
     11-23- of the northwest quarter of the southeast quarter in section 21, township 5
53   71     south, range 10 west of the 5th P.M.; and one acre in a square in the northeast
            corner of the west half of the southeast quarter of the northwest quarter of
            the southeast quarter of section 21, township 5 south, range 10 west of the 5th
            P.M., as residential
            Zoning a part of the northwest quarter of section 22, township 5 south, range
            10 west, more particularly described as beginning at the northwest corner of
54   11-23- the south half of the northwest quarter of the northwest quarter of said
     71     section 22; and the west 120 feet of the north 363 feet of the south half of
            the northeast quarter of the northwest quarter of section 22, township 5 south,
            range 10 west as residential
            Zoning certain territory, beginning at the northeast corner of the northwest
56   1-25-  quarter of the southeast quarter of section 16, township 5 south, range 10
     72     west, which point is where the west line of the present city limits intersects
            with the south line of White Hall City Park, as residential
     6-27-  Rezoning certain territory beginning at a point 81 feet east of the northwest
60   72     corner of Lot 7, Cooper's Addition No. 2, from Residential R-1 to Commercia l
            C-1
            Zoning the north half of the northwest quarter of the southeast quarter of the
            southeast quarter of section 9, township 5 south, range 10 west; and the
            northwest quarter of the southeast quarter of section 9, township 5 south,
66   2-13-  range 10 west; and the northwest quarter of the southeast quarter of section 9,
     73     township 5 south, range 10 west; and all of the northeast quarter of the
            southeast quarter of section 9, township 5 south, range 10 west, lying south
            and west of the center line of the Arkansas Power and Light Company right-of-
            way as residential
83   5-12-  Rezoning certain territory beginning at the northeast corner of Lot 1, Block 1
     75     of Bateman Addition to Pine Bluff from R-1 to R-2
     8-11-  Zoning a tract of land situated in part of the southwest quarter of the
87   75     southwest quarter of section 15, township 5 south, range 10 west, Jefferson
            County, Arkansas as R-1 Residential Single- Family
     11-22- Rezoning Lot 1 of Fair Acres, Monks Subdivision of Lots 7, 8, 9, 10 and 11 of
99   76     Dollarway Heights Addition in section 16, township 5 south, range 10 west, from
            R-2 to C-2
102  5-9-77 Rezoning Lot 7 of Cooper's Addition from R-1 to R-2
111  12-11- Rezoning 705 Winchester Lane from Residential R-1 to Residential R-2
     78
116  9-10-  Rezoning the east half of Lot 8 of Bellevue Addition from R-1 to R-2
     79
     4-14-  Zoning certain territory beginning 123 feet west of the northeast corner of the
119  80     southeast quarter of the northwest quarter of section 22, township 5 south,
            range 10 west in Jefferson County as residential
     12-8-  Rezoning a parcel of land located in the north half of the northeast quarter of
123  80     the northeast quarter of section 21, township 5 south, range 10 west, fifth
            principal meridian from Residential R-1 to Commercia l C-2
            Rezoning 4 parcels from R-1 Residential to C-2 Commercia l:
            (1) Beginning at the northwest corner of the east half of the northwest
            quarter, southwest quarter, section 9, township 5 south, range 10 west
            (2) Beginning at a point of intersection of the north right-of- way line of
            Hulse Road and the east right-of- way line of Arkansas Highway 365
127  5-10-  (3) Beginning at the point of intersection of the west right-of- way line of
     82     Arkansas Highway 365 and the south right- of-way line of Dogwood
            (4) Beginning at the point of intersection of the west right-of- way line of
            Arkansas Highway 365 and the south right- of-way line of Timber Lane
            Rezoning certain territory beginning at the southeast corner of the north half
            of the northwest quarter of the northeast quarter of section 20, township 5
            south, range 10 west, from R-1 Residential to M-1 Manufacturing
     11-8-  Rezoning certain territory beginning at a point 267.5 feet south and 420.68
128  82     feet east of the northwest corner of the northwest quarter of the southeast
            quarter, section 16- 5-10 from Residential R-2 to Commercia l C-2
            Rezoning all of the southwest quarter of the southwest quarter of section 21,
131  2-14-  township 5 south, range 10 west, except for the parcel located on the north
     83     side of U.S. Highway 65B from Residential Single- Family R-1 to General
            Commercia l C-2
            Rezoning three parcels from R-1 Residential Single- Family to R-2 Residential
            Single and Two- Family:
            (1) Beginning at the intersection of White Hall Road and Robin Street
            (2) Beginning at the intersection of Holland Road and Semora Road
            (3) Beginning at the northwest corner of the southwest quarter of the southwest
            quarter of section 16, township 5 south, range 10 west
            Rezoning four parcels from R-1 Residential Single Family to R-2A Residential
            Multiple- Family:
            (1) Beginning north 500 feet on U.S. Highway 365 from the intersection of U.S.
            Highway 365 and Michelle Street
142  9-12-  (2) Beginning at the intersection of U.S. Highway 270 and the west boundary
     83     line of the southwest quarter of the southwest quarter of section 21, township
            5 south, range 10 west
            (3) Beginning at the intersection of Arkansas Highway 256 and McGehee Road
            (4) Beginning north 500 feet on McGehee Road from the intersection of McGehee
            Road and Arkansas Highway 256
            Rezoning three parcels from R-2 Residential Single and Two- Family to R-2A
            Residential Multiple- Family:
            (1) Beginning east 200 feet on Reynolds Street from the intersection of
            Reynolds Street and Bridges Street
            (2) Beginning at the intersection of School Drive and White Hall Road
            (3) Lots 4, 5, 19, 20 and part of Lot 21 Dollwarwa y Heights Addition
            Zoning two parcels as R-1 Residential:
            Beginning 120 feet east of the northeast corner of Carter's Addition in Section
145  4-9-84 22, township 5 south, range 10 west;
            Beginning 123 feet west of the northeast corner of southeast quarter, northwest
            quarter, section 22, township 5 south, range 10 west
            Rezoning certain territory beginning at the center of section 16, township 5
146  4-9-84 south, range 10 west of the 5th principal meridian from Residential R-2 to
            Commercia l C-2
            Zoning certain territory beginning at the intersection of the north boundary
153  5-6-85 line of the southeast quarter of the southwest quarter of Section 22, township
            5 south, range 10 west and the west right-of- way line of U.S. Highway 365
            running thence south as residential
154  5-6-85 Zoning certain territory beginning at the northeast corner of the southwest
            quarter of section 22- 5-10 as residential
            Rezoning certain territory beginning at the northwest corner of section 21
155  5-6-85 township 5 south range 10 west from General Commercia l C-2 to Residential
            Single Family R-1
            Rezoning two parcels from Residential Single Family R-1 to General Commercia l
            C-2:
156  8-12-  (1) A tract of land in the west half of section 22, township 5 south, range 10
     85     west
            (2) A tract of land in the west half of section 22, township 5 south, range 10
            west
     9-14-  Rezoning certain territory in section 21, township 5 range 10 containing 7.34
173  87     acres from Residential Single- Family R-1 and Residential Multiple- Family R-
            2A to General Commercia l C-2
     3-14-  Rezoning certain territory beginning at the northeast corner of section 17,
175  88     thence north 88° 46' west 1315.9 feet, from Residential Single-Fam ily R-1 to
            General Commercia l C-2
     10-10- Rezoning Lot 4 of R.W. McNew Subdivision of a part of the northeast quarter of
180  88     the southwest quarter of section 22, township 5 south, range 10 west from
            Residential Single-Fam ily R-1 to M-1 Industrial
191  6-11-  Zoning 114 W. Dogwood as Residential R-2
     90
192  6-11-  Zoning two parcels as General Commercia l C-2:
     90
            (1) Starting at the southeast quarter of section 21, township 5 south, range 10
            west
            (2) Starting at the southwest corner of section 22, township 5 south, range 10
            west
          Zoning two parcels as C-1 Neighborho od Commercia l:
            (1) Commencin g at the southeast corner of section 21, township 5 south, range
            10 west
            (2) Commencin g at an existing concrete post monument at the southwest corner
            of section 22, township 5 south, range 10 west
196  9-9-91 Rezoning Lot 1 of the Church of God Addition from Residential Single- Family R-
            1 to Single and Two-Famil y Residential R-2
197  9-9-91 Rezoning certain territory from C-2 General Commercia l to M-1 Industrial
     7-13-  Zoning the south 250 feet of Lots 1, 2, and 3 and the north 250 feet of Lots 14
207  92     and 15 of Highland View Addition as R-2 Single-Fam ily and Two-Famil y
            Residential
     7-13-  Zoning Lot 1, less and except the west 350 feet, MeGehee Resurvey of Lots 28
208  92     and 29 Dollarway Heights Subdivision as R-2 Single-Fam ily and Two-Famil y
            Residential
     12-15- Rezoning certain territory beginning at the northeast corner of the right-of-
214  92     way of the intersection of Carter Drive and Dollarway Road from Residential R-
            1 to Commercia l C-1
215  12-15- Rezoning part of Lot 30 Park Hill Addition from Commercia l C-2 to Residential
     92     R-2
            Rezoning certain territory beginning at the northeast corner of the right-of-
216  2-8-93 way of the intersection of Carter Drive and Dollarway Road, from Residential R-
            1 to Commercia l C-1
224  8-9-93 Zoning certain territory containing 7.34 acres as R-1 Single-Fam ily
            Residential
226  12-13- Zoning part of the southwest quarter of the southeast quarter of section 21,
     93     township 5 south, range 10 west as C-2 General Commercia l
     1-10-  Zoning the northeast quarter of the northeast quarter of the northeast quarter
227  94     except the north 30 feet of section 16, township 5 south, range 10 west as R-
            2 Single-Fam ily and Two-Famil y Residential
     6-13-  Zoning the west half of the northeast quarter of the northwest quarter of the
228  94     northwest quarter of section 28, township 5 south, range 10 west, less and
            except the north 200 feet of the west 200 feet thereof, containing 4.14 acres
231  11-14- Zoning section 20, township 5 south, range 10 west as C-2 General Commercia l
     94
     12-12- Zoning Tract I of the lot split plat of part of Lot 2 in Block 1 of Henslee
232  94     Heights Addition to the City of Pine Bluff, same being located in the southwest
            quarter of section 22, township 5 south, range 10 west
238  12-11- Zoning the south half of the southeast quarter of the southeast quarter of
     95     section 20, township 5 south, range 10 west as C-2 General Commercia l
241  10-21- Zoning certain territory beginning 512 feet east of the northwest corner of Lot
     96     1 of Hunter and Custer's Subdivision as C-2 General Commercia l
     11-18- Zoning the west 806 feet of northeast quarter of the southeast quarter north of
245  96     Highway 270 in section 20, township 5 south, range 10 as C-2 General Commercia
            l
            Zoning Lots 2 and 3 of McGehee Realty Company’s Resurvey of Lots 28 and 29 of
246  11-18- Dollarway Heights Addition to the city of Pine Bluff, Arkansas; same being
     96     located in Lots 2 and 3 of section 16, township 5 south, range 10 as C-
            2 General Commercia l
     11-18- Zoning certain territory beginning at a point 454.7 feet west of the southeast
247  96     corner of the northwest quarter of section 21, township 5, range 10 as C-
            2 General Commercia l
     3-16-  Rezoning certain territory beginning at the northwest corner of the southeast
261  98     quarter of section 21, township 5 south, range 10 west of the fifth P.M. as C-
            2 General Commercia l
262  5-18-  Rezoning certain territory in section 21, township 5 south, range 10 west as M-
     98     1 Manufactur ing
            Rezoning certain territory as R-2 Single Family and Two Family Residential:
     8-17-  (1) Lots 46, Jamestown South Subdivision , Phase I
263  98     (2) Lots 63, 64, 65, 66, and 67, Jamestown South Subdivision , Phase II
            (3) Lots 1, 11, 18, and 19, Oak Hill Subdivision
            (4) Lots 30, 34, 35, 37, and 38 Bryant Subdivision , Unit 2
264  8-17-  Rezoning certain territory commencin g at the center of section 16, township 5
     98     south, range 10 west to C-2 General Commercia l
265  9-21-  Rezoning certain territory in section 21, township 5 south, range 10 west to C-
     98     2 General Commercia l
266  9-21-  Rezoning certain territory in section 21, township 5 south, range 10 west to C-
     98     2 General Commercia l.
267  9-21-  Rezoning certain territory in section 21, township 5 south, range 10 west to C-
     98     2 General Commercia l.
     10-19- Rezoning certain territory beginning at the northwest corner of the southwest
268  98     quarter, northwest quarter, of section 22, township 5 south, range 10 west to
            C-2 General Commercia l.
            Rezoning certain territory beginning at the north 600 feet of that part lying
272  5-17-  south of Highway 270 of the east half of the northwest quarter of the northeast
     99     quarter, section 28, township 5 south, range 10 west to C-2 General Commercia
            l.
            Rezoning certain territory commencin g 155 feet south of the northwest corner
            of the northwest quarter of the southeast quarter of section 16, township 5
276  6-19-  south, range 10 west of the fifth P.M., thence east 320 feet to the point of
     99     beginning; thence south 112.5 feet; thence east to the west right-of-wa y line
            of Dollarway Road; thence northwestle ry along said right-of-wa y line 125
            feet; thence west to the point of beginning to C-2 General Commercia l.
            Rezoning certain territory to R-2 Single Family and Two Family:
            Parcel 1. The north 460 feet of the west 190 feet of the southeast quarter of
            the northeast quarter of section 29, T5S, R10W of the fifth P.M.
            Parcel 2. Section 29, T5S, R10W: Beginning 251 feet east and 23 feet south of
     11-15- the northwest corner of the southeast quarter of the northeast quarter; thence
280  99     east 159 feet; thence south 215 feet; thence west 175.6; thence north 199 feet;
            thence northeasterl y 23 feet to the point of beginning.
            Parcel 3. Section 29, T5S, R10W: Beginning 586 feet east and 23 feet south of
            the northwest corner of the southeast quarter of the northeast; thence east 166
            feet; thence southerly along ditch 435 feet; thence west 159 feet; thence north
            430 feet to the point of beginning.
287  2-22-  Rezoning certain territory in Lot 40, Bryant Subdivision , Unit 2 to R-2 Single
     00     Family and Two Family Residential.
289  4-17-  Rezoning certain territory beginning at the northeast corner of the NW ¼ of the
     00     SW ¼ of the NW ¼ of said Section 15 to R-2 Single Family and Two Family.
290  4-17-  Rezoning certain territory beginning 300 feet East of the SW corner of Lot 6 to
     00     R-2 Single Family and Two Family.
291  5-15-  Rezoning certain territory commencin g at the NW corner of the SE ¼ of the NE ¼
     00     of Section 29, T5S, R10W of the 5th P.M. to R- 2 Single Family and Two Family.
292  5-15-  Rezoning certain territory south 230 feet of Lot 12 of Dollarway Heights
     00     Subdivision of Lots 2, 3, 7 and 8 of Setion 15, T5S, R10W to R-3 Multi- Family.
294  6-19-  Rezoning certain territory being Lots 3 and 4 of Oak Hill Subdivision to R-
     00     2 Single Family and Two Family.
295  6-19-  Rezoning certain territory being part of the SE ¼, Section 21, T5S, R10W to R-
     00     1 Single- Family Residential.
301  10-16- Rezoning certain territory being the West 350 feet of N ½ N ½ NW NW of Section
     00     15, T5S, R10W to R-2 Single- Family and Two- Family.
306  1-22-  Rezoning certain territory being Lot 10 of Stone Addition, except the west 35
     01     feet and except Hwy R/W Tract 42 to C-2 General Commercia l.
            Rezoning certain territory as R-3 Residential Multiple- Family:
307  3-19-  (1) The east five feet of Lot 4 of Cantrell’s Replat and the west five feet of
     01     Lot 9 of Cantrell’s Replat;
            (2) Lot 21 of Dollarway Heights Subdivision to the City of Pine Bluff.
308  3-19-  Rezoning certain territory being part of the SE ¼ of the SW ¼ of Section 21,
     01     T5S, R10W of the Fifth P.M. to C- 2 General Commercia l.
309  4-16-  Rezoning certain territory being at the SW corner of SE NE to R-2 Residential
     01     Single- Family.
310  5-21-  Rezoning certain territory being part of the NE ¼ of the NE ¼ of Section 29,
     01     T5S, R10W of Fifth P.M. to R- 2 Single- Family and Two- Family.
     7-16-  Rezoning certain territory being Lots 9 and 11 of Stone Addition and also a
311  01     0.65 acre parcel described as beginning at the SW corner of the NE ¼ of Section
            21, T5S, R10W to C-2 General Commercia l.
     9-17-  Rezoning certain territory being the east 165 feet of Lot 34 in Dollarway
314  01     Heights, Subdivision of Lots 2, 3, 7, and 8 in Section 16, T5S, R10W to R-
            2 Residential Single- Family and Two- Family.
     1-22-  Rezoning certain territory being the west 300 feet of Lots 2 and 3 of McGehee
320  02     Realty Co. Re-Survey of Lots 28 and 29 of Dollarway Heights Addition to R-
            2 Single- Family and Two- Family.
324  4-15-  Rezoning the west 300 feet of Lots 2 and 3 of McGehee Realty Co. Re-survey of
     02     Lots 28 and 29 of Dollarway Heights Addition to R-3 Multi- Family.
     7-15-  Rezoning approximat ely 5.16 acres, being part of the SW ¼ of the NW ¼ of
325  02     Section 22, and part of the SE ¼ of the NE ¼ of Section 21, both in T5S, R10W
            of the fifth P.M. to R- 1 Single- Family Residential.
326  8-19-  Rezoning 22.8 acres, being a part of Section 21, T5S, R10W, as set forth in
     02     Ord. 326
     1-21-  Rezoning approximat ely 5.12 acres on Dollarway Road north of Harrod Road,
331  03     beginning at the NE corner of the SW ¼, NW ¼, of Section 22, T5S, R10W, to C-
            2 General Commercia l.
            Rezoning two parcels on Chipmunk Drive 400 feet west of Dollarway Road to R-
            1 Single- Family Residential:
332  1-21-  (1) Beginning at the SE corner of Lot 4 of Chipmunk Minor Subdivision , on the
     03     northern right-of- way of Chipmunk Drive; and
            (2) Beginning at the NE corner of Lot 80 of The Woodlands Subdivision , on the
            southern right-of- way of Chipmunk Drive.
     1-21-  Rezoning approximat ely 5.63 acres between Harrod Road and Carter Drive,
333  03     beginning at the NE corner of the SW ¼, NW ¼ of Section 22, T5S, R10W, to R-
            3 Multi- Family Residential.
     1-21-  Rezoning approximat ely 18.45 acres in Silver Leaf Subdivision , beginning at
334  03     the NE corner of the SW ¼, NW ¼ of Section 22, T5S, R10W, to R-1 Single- Family
            Residential.
338  5-21-  Rezoning Lots 11 and 12 of Phase 1 of Lively Subdivision to R-2 Single- Family
     03     and Two- Family Residential.
339  5-21-  Rezoning the north 250 feet of Lot 12 of Highland View Addition to R-2 Single-
     03     Family and Two- Family Residential.
340  5-19-  Rezoning Lots 2 through 5 of Holladay Addition to R-1X Residential Single-
     03     Family Mixed Housing District.
342  7-21-  Rezoning certain territory beginning 155 feet south of the northwest corner of
     03     the NW of the SE of Section 16, T5S, R10W to C-2 General Commercia l.
     8-18-  Rezoning Lot 39 of Bryant Subdivision , Unit No. 2, same being located in
343  03     Section 29, Township 5 South, Range 10 West of the 5th P.M to R-2 Residential
            Single Family and Two Family.
     1-20-  Rezoning certain territory beginning at the NW corner of the NW of the N/W of
348  04     Section 9, Township 5 South, Range 10 West to R- 1X Residential Single Family
            Mixed Housing District.
            Rezoning certain territory beginning at a point 45 feet north and 20 feet west
350  2-17-  of the SE corner of the north half of the SE of the NE of Section 29, Township
     04     5 South, Range 10 West, of the 5th P.M. to R- W Residential Single Family and
            Two Family.
     5-17-  Rezoning certain territory being part of the North 600 feet of that part lying
356  04     South of Highway 270 of the East of the NW of the NE, Section 28, Township 5
            South, Range 10 West to R-1 Residential Single Family and Two Family.
            Rezoning certain territory beginning 685 feet south of the NW corner of the SW
361  10-18- 1/4 of the NW 1/4 of Section 28, Township 5 South, Range 10 West known as
     04     Southeast Corner of Bayou View Drive and Claud Road to R- 2 Residential Single
            Family and Two Family.
            Rezoning certain property being Lot 8 of Plainview subdivision number two, a
365  12-20- subdivision of the NE 1/4 of the NE 1/4 of Section 8, Township 5 South, Range
     04     10 West known as 1101 Gamble Road to R- 2 Residential Single Family and Two
            Family.
369  2-22-  Rezoning certain property located at 6924 Dollarway Road to C- 2 General
     05     Commercia l.
374  10-17- Rezoning certain property being Lot 3 of Truck Garden Addition (10305 Dollarway
     05     Road) as R- 2 Residential Single Family and Two Family.
375  11-21- Rezoning certain property being 2.74 acres located at 1006 Rae Lane and south
     05     of Rae Lane and Claud Road as R- 2 Residential Single Family and Two Family.
376  11-21- Rezoning certain property being Green Street, east of Dollarway Road as R- 3
     05     Multi- Family.
380  1-17-  Rezoning certain property being 3.0 acres located at 1000 Caney Road as R 1-
     06     X Residential Single Family Mixed Housing.
384  3-20-  Rezoning certain property located at 7010 Sheridan Road to C- 2 General
     06     Commercia l.
390  1-16-  Rezoning certain property being 2.44 acres located at 1008-1010 Rae Lane as R-
     07     2 Residential Single Family and Two Family.
391  1-16-  Rezoning certain property located at the NW corner of W. Holland Street and
     07     Dollarway Road as R-1 Single Family Residential.
393  2-20-  Rezoning certain property on Kelly Street as R-1 Residential Single Family.
     07
     2-19-  Rezoning certain property of the SE 1/4 of the NE 1/4 of Section 20, Township 5
406  08     South, Range 10 West, lying west of the western right-of- way line of
            Interstate 530 as C-2 General Commercia l.
            Rezoning certain property beginning 800 feet south of the NW corner of the NW
            1/4 of Section 20, Township 5 South, Range 10 West; thence southeasterl y 629
            feet more or less to a point 200 feet, measured perpendicul arly, north of the
     2-19-  northern right-of- way line of U.S Highway 270; thence southeasterl y 825 feet
407  08     more or less to a point 400 feet, measured perpendicul arly, north of right-of-
            way line; thence south 400 feet to right-of- way line; thence northwester ly
            along right-of-way line to a point in the right-of-way of Sandy Acres Drive;
            thence north 263 feet more or less to the point of beginning as C-2 General
            Commercial.
            Rezoning certain property beginning at the NW corner of the NW 1/4 of Section
     2-19-  20, Township 5 South, Range 10 West; thence east 155 feet; thence south 985
408  08     feet; thence northwester ly 139 feet to a point 800 feet south of NW corner;
            thence north 800 feet to the point of beginning as R-2 Single Family and Two
            Family.
            Rezoning certain property located at 9106 Dollarway Road and beginning at the
            NW corner of Lot 3 of McGehee Realty Company's Resurvey of Lots 28 and 29 of
            Dollarway Heights Addition to the City of White Hall, Arkansas; thence east
     8-18-  along the north line thereof 300 feet to the point of beginning; thence east
412  08     220.88 feet to the southwester ly right of way of Dollarway Road; thence
            southeasterl y along said right-of- way to the SE corner of Lot 2 of McGehee
            Realty Company's Resurvey of Lots 28 and 29 of Dollarway Heights Addition to
            the City of White Hall, Arkansas; thence west 345.83 feet; thence north 280.06
            feet to the point of beginning as R-3 Residential.
            Rezoning certain territory described as Section 28, Township 5 S, Range 10 W,
            beginning 110 feet S of the NW corner N one-half N one-half NW SW then S 78° 47
            min., E 849.63 ft. S 69° 04 min., E along the center of an old R/R tram 125
     10-20- ft., then N 84° W 955.42 ft. N 110 ft. to the point of beginning, 1.4 acres;
414  08     and Section 28, Township 5 S, Range 10 W, beginning 220 ft. S of the NW corner
            N one-half N one-half NW SW then S 84° E 955.42 ft. S. 69° 04 min. E along the
            center of an old R/R tram 25 ft. to the W side of Hwy 65 S 38° 01 min E 10.9
            ft. alongside Hwy 65 N 89° 34 min W 980.3 ft., N 110 ft. to point of beginning
            1.4 acres, as R-2 Single Family and Two Family
     3-15-  Rezoning certain territory located at 1002 Hoadley Road of the E 1/2 of Lot 32
421  10     of F.O. McGehee Subdivision , less and except highway right-of-wa y, located in
            Section 8, Township 5 S, Range 10 W of the 5th P.M., as C-2 General Commercia l
426  8-16-  Rezoning certain territory located at 7003 Dollarway Road of the W 300 feet of
     10     Lot 4 of R.W. McNew Addition, as C-2 General Commercia l
            Rezoning certain territory located at the SE Corner of Dollarway Road and Lloyd
427  8-16-  Street and described as part of the SE 1/4 of the SW 1/4 of Section 9, Township
     10     5 S, Range 10 W of the 5th P.M., as R-2 Residential Single Family and Two
            Family
     9-20-  Rezoning certain territory located at Lot 42 of Dollarway Heights Addition and
429  10     the north 330 feet of Tract B on the Plat of County Estates S/D Section One, as
            R-3 Multi- Family Residential
437  5-16-  Zoning certain territory located at the SE 1/4 of the NQ 1/4 of section 20,
     11     T5S, R10W, as C-2 General Commercia l
443  4-16-  Rezoning certain territory located at 103 Timber Lane, part of Lot 11 of
     12     Westside Subdivision , as C-2 General Commercia l
447  10-15- Rezoning certain territory located at 9013-9023 Sheridan Road and the northeast
     12     corner of Sheridan Road and Rolling Hills, as C-2 General Commercia l
448  11-19- Rezoning certain territory located at 8608 Dollarway Road, as C- 2 General
     12     Commercia l
454  3-18-  Rezoning certain territory located at 7010 Sheridan Road, as C- 2 General
     13     Commercia l
455  4-15-  Rezoning certain territory located at 1603 Seibs Avenue, as R-1X Residential
     13     Single Family Mixed Housing
471  6-16-  Rezoning certain territory located at the 8500 Block of Sheridan Road, as C- 2
     14     General Commercia l
485  4-18-  Rezoning certain territory located at 7707 and 7715 Dollarway Road as C-2,
     2016   General Commercia l
486  7-18-  Rezoning certain territory located at the 8900 block west side of Dollarway
     2016   Road as C-2, General Commercia l
492  11-21- Rezoning certain territory located east of 8407 Dollarway Road as R- 1, Single-
     16     Family Residential
493  11-21- Rezoning certain territory located at 105 Turner Street as R- 1, Single- Family
     16     Residential
500  4-17-  Rezoning certain territory west of 7816 Dollarway Road as C- 2, General
     17     Commercia l
503  5-15-  Rezoning certain territory east of 9808 Dollarway Road as C- 2 General
     17     Commercia l
511  11-19- Rezoning certain territory described as 708 Hulse Road as R1-MH Manufactur ed
     18     Home District
515  1-22-  Rezoning certain properties north of the 7700 block of Sheridan Road as R- 1
     19     Residential and C-2 General Commercia l, respectively
521  8-19-  Rezoning certain territory described as Lot 2 of Tannerwoo d Addition to the
     19     City of White Hall as C-2 General Commercial
528  5-18-  Rezoning certain territory described as 7301 Sheridan Road as RPD Residential
     20     Planned Development
562  4-21-  Rezoning certain territory in section 16, township 5, range 10 to C-2, General
     25     Commercial
           
 
TABLE VII: DISTRICT IMPROVEMENTS
 
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
     5-10-  Authorizing the construction of extensions, betterments and improvements
279  99     to sewer facilities of the city and the issuance of a water and sewer
            revenue bond.
281  11-15- To provide for the approval, confirmation acceptance and creation of the
     99     country estates property owner’s improvement district of the city.
285  1-18-  To provide for the approval, confirmation, acceptance and creation of
     00     the Country Estates Property Owner’s Improvement District of the city.
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Arkansas Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ARKANSAS CODE
A.C. Section Code Section
A.C. Section          Code Section
5-64-201-216          36.19
14-43-502             30.03
14-52-101             32.30
14-53-101 - 14-53-112 32.15
14-53-102             32.17
                      96.114,
14-54-903             96.134,
                      96.135
14-54-904             96.135
14-54-1101            90.04,
                      90.99
14-55-504             10.99
14-55-602             10.99
14-55-603             10.99
14-55-604             10.99
14-55-605             10.99
14-55-606             10.99
14-55-608             10.99
14-56-203             96.135
                      32.02,
                      153.03,
14-56-401 - 14-56-425 154.001,
                      154.091,
                      154.092
14-56-404             32.01
14-58-303             34.01,
                      34.02
14-58-306             34.04
14-172-201, et seq.   100.05
14-200-101(a)         100.03
14-200-101(b)         100.02
14-200-102            100.10
14-268-101            152.01
14-268-106            152.41
14-271-101, et seq.   100.05
16-18-111 - 16-18-112 35.01
16-90-108             10.99
20-22-701 - 20-22-715 91.02
23-19-202             100.03
23-19-205(d)          100.02
23-19-206             100.03
26-52-101 et seq.     34.22
26-53-101 et seq.     34.15
26-75-601 et seq.     32.46
26-77-204             110.12
                      
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.  Date Passed Code Section
—       - -         34.15
                      11.02,
1         10-29-64    30.01,
                      30.02,
                      94.01
2         10-29-64    T.S.O. III
3         11-12-64    T.S.O. I
14        7-27-65     32.01 -
                      32.03
15        8-24-65     30.03
16        11-23-65    T.S.O. III
20        6-28-66     93.15,
                      93.16
24        6-2-67      T.S.O. I
                      154.001 -
                      154.003,
                      154.020 -
                      154.027,
26        10-24-67    154.040 -
                      154.047,
                      154.090 -
                      154.098,
                      154.999
27        12-26-67    33.01 -
                      33.03
28        4-6-68      33.99
29        4-23-68     T.S.O. I
30        5-28-68     T.S.O. VI
31        7-23-68     150.01
32        8-27-68     T.S.O. VI
33        8-27-68     150.02,
                      150.99
                      91.15,
34        2-25-69     91.16,
                      91.99
37        9-23-69     T.S.O. II
38        10-28-69    T.S.O. VI
39        12-16-69    130.02,
                      130.99
                      151.01 -
40        4-28-70     151.10,
                      151.99
42        5-28-70     T.S.O. I
51        8-24-71     94.25,
                      94.99
53        11-23-71    T.S.O. II,
                      T.S.O. VI
54        11-23-71    T.S.O. II,
                      T.S.O. VI
56        1-25-72     T.S.O. II,
                      T.S.O. VI
58        5-23-72     151.01,
                      151.06
60        6-27-72     T.S.O. VI
63        10-10-72    30.05
65        1-9-73      51.99
66        2-13-73     T.S.O. II,
                      T.S.O. VI
68        7-10-73     T.S.O. V
70        11-5-73     32.15,
                      32.16
78        10-14-74    112.01
81        1-13-75     51.03
83        5-12-75     T.S.O. VI
87        8-11-75     T.S.O. II,
                      T.S.O. VI
89        11-10-75    154.043
90        11-10-75    150.01
91        11-10-75    150.15
92        12-8-75     151.10
93        12-8-75     51.68
94        1-12-76     93.02,
                      93.99
97        10-11-76    T.S.O. IV
98        10-11-76    150.02
99        11-22-76    T.S.O. VI
100       3-14-77     32.17
                      154.003,
                      154.025,
                      154.027,
101       4-11-77     154.043,
                      154.046,
                      154.047,
                      154.060 -
                      154.077
102       5-9-77      T.S.O. VI
105       6-12-78     T.S.O. V
106       6-12-78     51.99
107       6-12-78     150.03
111       12-11-78    T.S.O. VI
                      154.003,
113       12-11-78    154.025,
                      154.047
114       2-12-79     T.S.O. V
115       7-9-79      70.01
116       9-10-79     T.S.O. VI
118       3-10-80     T.S.O. II
119       4-14-80     T.S.O. II,
                      T.S.O. VI
120       7-14-80     T.S.O. V
121       9-8-80      154.003
123       12-8-80     T.S.O. VI
124       1-12-81     T.S.O. III
125       7-13-81     150.04
127       5-10-82     T.S.O. VI
128       11-8-82     T.S.O. VI
129       12-13-82    11.01
130       12-13-82    31.01
131       2-14-83     T.S.O. VI
132       2-14-83     32.30
                      154.022,
135       4-11-83     154.026,
                      154.046
                      91.01 -
139       9-12-83     91.03,
                      91.99
140       9-12-83     154.020 -
                      154.023
141       9-12-83     154.025,
                      154.026
142       9-12-83     T.S.O. VI
144       4-9-84      T.S.O. I
145       4-9-84      T.S.O. II,
                      T.S.O. VI
146       4-9-84      T.S.O. VI
147       8-13-84     34.01 -
                      34.04
148       9-10-84     70.02,
                      70.99
149       1-14-85     154.026
151       12-10-84    34.15
152       12-10-84    34.15
153       5-6-85      T.S.O. II,
                      T.S.O. VI
154       5-6-85      T.S.O. II,
                      T.S.O. VI
155       5-6-85      T.S.O. VI
156       8-12-85     T.S.O. VI
158       3-10-86     154.021
159       3-10-86     154.021
160       4-14-86     154.098
166       11-10-86    154.024
167       11-10-86    154.024
169       3-16-87     34.01,
                      34.02
171       5-11-87     50.99
                      153.01 -
                      153.07,
                      153.20 -
                      153.24,
                      153.35 -
172       6-8-87      153.47,
                      153.60 -
                      153.65,
                      153.75 -
                      153.78,
                      153.99
173       9-14-87     T.S.O. VI
175       3-14-88     T.S.O. VI
176       5-9-88      70.03,
                      70.99
177       9-12-88     154.023
180       10-10-88    T.S.O. VI
181       12-12-88    T.S.O. V
182       2-13-89     T.S.O. V
186       10-16-89    T.S.O. V
187       11-13-89    150.30 -
                      150.39
189       3-12-90     32.31
190       4-9-90      T.S.O. II
188       5-14-90     93.03
191       6-11-90     T.S.O. VI
192       6-11-90     T.S.O. VI
193       5-13-91     50.01 -
                      50.05
194       8-12-91     50.02
195       9-9-91      93.01,
                      93.99
196       9-9-91      T.S.O. VI
197       9-9-91      T.S.O. VI
                      51.01,
                      51.02,
                      51.04 -
                      51.06,
198       11-11-91    51.20 -
                      51.26,
                      51.40 -
                      51.47,
                      51.99
                      51.60 -
200       12-16-91    51.67,
                      51.69 - 51.72
                      70.15 -
203       3-9-92      70.21,
                      70.99
202       5-11-92     154.047
207       7-13-92     T.S.O. VI
208       7-13-92     T.S.O. VI
209       9-14-92     91.01,
                      91.99
                      130.15 -
206       11-9-92     130.19,
                      130.99
214       12-15-92    T.S.O. VI
215       12-15-92    T.S.O. VI
                      90.01 -
                      90.07,
                      90.20 -
                      90.22,
210       2-8-93      90.35 -
                      90.40,
                      90.50,
                      90.51,
                      90.99
216       2-8-93      T.S.O. VI
218       2-8-93      51.66
220       4-30-93     30.04
219       6-14-93     130.01,
                      130.99
221       6-29-93     51.66
224       8-9-93      T.S.O. VI
223       9-13-93     36.99
226       12-13-93    T.S.O. VI
227       1-10-94     T.S.O. VI
228       6-13-94     T.S.O. VI
229       10-10-94    52.01 -
                      52.06
231       11-14-94    T.S.O. VI
232       12-12-94    T.S.O. VI
233       2-13-95     32.01,
                      32.03
235       7-28-95     35.01
234       8-14-95     154.022,
                      154.024
                      110.01 -
237       11-13-95    110.12,
                      110.99
238       12-11-95    T.S.O. VI
239       10-21-96    Adopting Ordinance
                      95.01 -
240       10-21-96    95.03,
                      95.99
241       10-21-96    T.S.O. IV
242       10-21-96    T.S.O. V
                      154.003,
243       10-21-96    154.021 -
                      154.027
244       10-21-96    T.S.O. III
245       11-18-96    T.S.O. VI
246       11-18-96    T.S.O. VI
247       11-18-96    T.S.O. VI
                      154.003,
248       12-16-96    154.026,
                      154.027,
                      154.047
249       12-16-96    50.02(A)
250       1-1-97      T.S.O. I
251       3-17-97     93.04
252       3-17-97     93.05
                      32.45 -
253       5-19-97     32.47,
                      34.20 -
                      34.24
254       6-16-97     T.S.O. II
255       7-21-97     150.03,
                      150.99
256       9-15-97     T.S.O. V
257       10-20-97    51.10 -
                      51.18
                      154.003,
259       2-17-98     154.021,
                      154.022,
                      154.047
                      154.003,
260       2-17-98     154.097 -
                      154.099
261       3-16-98     T.S.O. VI
262       5-18-98     T.S.O. VI
263       8-17-98     T.S.O. VI
264       8-17-98     T.S.O. VI
265       9-21-98     T.S.O. VI
266       9-21-98     T.S.O. VI
267       9-21-98     T.S.O. VI
268       10-19-98    T.S.O. VI
269       11-16-98    T.S.O. I
270       11-16-98    T.S.O. I
272       5-17-99     T.S.O. VI
                      154.003,
273       5-17-99     154.022,
                      154.023,
                      154.024
274       5-17-99     154.021,
                      154.023
275       6-21-99     35.02
276       7-19-99     T.S.O. VI
277       8-30-99     51.60 -
                      51.71
278       9-20-99     T.S.O. III
279       10-5-99     T.S.O. VII
280       11-15-99    T.S.O. VI
281       11-15-99    T.S.O. VII
282       11-15-99    T.S.O. III
285       1-18-00     T.S.O. VII
286       2-22-00     153.61
287       2-22-00     T.S.O. VI
                      154.020,
288       3-20-00     154.023,
                      154.025
289       4-17-00     T.S.O. VI
290       4-17-00     T.S.O. VI
291       5-15-00     T.S.O. VI
292       5-15-00     T.S.O. VI
293       6-19-00     154.022,
                      154.023
294       6-19-00     T.S.O. VI
295       6-19-00     T.S.O. VI
297       7-24-00     94.02,
                      94.99
298       7-24-00     T.S.O. V
300       8-21-00     94.02
301       10-16-00    T.S.O. VI
304       1-22-01     154.044
305       1-22-01     154.020,
                      154.028
306       1-22-01     T.S.O. VI
307       3-19-01     T.S.O. VI
308       3-19-01     T.S.O. VI
309       4-16-01     T.S.O. VI
310       5-32-01     T.S.O. VI
311       7-16-01     T.S.O. VI
314       9-17-01     T.S.O. VI
315       11-19-01    30.04
                      154.091 -
316       12-17-01    154.092-1,
                      154.094
320       1-22-02     T.S.O. VI
324       4-15-02     T.S.O. VI
325       7-15-02     T.S.O. VI
326       8-19-02     T.S.O. VI
327       10-21-02    154.092-1,
                      154.094
328       11-18-02    50.02
331       1-21-03     T.S.O. VI
332       1-21-03     T.S.O. VI
333       1-21-03     T.S.O. VI
334       1-21-03     T.S.O. VI
336       4-17-03     50.06,
                      50.99
                      97.01 -
337       4-17-03     97.03,
                      97.99
338       5-21-03     T.S.O. VI
339       5-21-03     T.S.O. VI
340       5-19-03     T.S.O. VI
                      154.003,
                      154.021 -
341       5-19-03     154.023,
                      154.042,
                      154.098
342       7-21-03     T.S.O. VI
343       8-18-03     T.S.O. VI
344       10-20-03    51.03
345       10-20-03    36.15 -
                      36.24
346       11-17-03    130.03
348       1-20-04     T.S.O. VI
350       2-17-04     T.S.O. VI
354       4-19-04     130.15 -
                      130.17
356       5-17-04     T.S.O. VI
358       8-16-04     154.045
361       10-18-04    T.S.O. VI
363       11-15-04    50.02
364       11-15-04    110.12
365       12-20-04    T.S.O. VI
367       1-18-05     T.S.O. I
369       2-22-05     T.S.O. VI
370       7-18-05     32.32
371       7-18-05     154.003,
                      154.026
372       7-18-05     153.62
373       8-15-05     51.65
374       10-17-05    T.S.O. VI
375       11-21-05    T.S.O. VI
376       11-21-05    T.S.O. VI
                      53.01 -
379       1-17-06     53.21,
                      53.99
380       1-17-06     T.S.O. VI
381       2-21-06     150.45
382       2-21-06     150.46
383       2-21-06     51.60
384       3-20-06     T.S.O. VI
                      154.025,
385       4-18-06     154.026,
                      154.027,
                      154.048
386       8-21-06     154.048
387       10-10-06    154.022,
                      154.044
390       1-16-07     T.S.O. VI
391       1-16-07     T.S.O. VI
393       2-20-07     T.S.O. VI
CC2007-11 4-5-07      T.S.O. II
395       5-21-07     T.S.O. V
396       5-21-07     T.S.O. II
397       5-21-07     T.S.O. II
398       8-20-07     50.02
399       8-20-07     130.03
402       12-17-07    T.S.O. II
406       2-19-08     T.S.O. VI
407       2-19-08     T.S.O. VI
408       2-19-08     T.S.O. VI
409       5-19-08     90.37
411       5-19-08     91.02
412       8-18-08     T.S.O. VI
                      113.01 -
413       8-18-08     113.06,
                      113.99
414       10-20-08    T.S.O. VI
                      152.01 -
                      152.10,
                      152.25,
417       1-20-09     152.26,
                      152.40 -
                      152.45,
                      152.99
418       11-16-09    T.S.O. I
421       3-15-10     T.S.O. VI
422       4-19-10     T.S.O. I
423       5-17-10     T.S.O. II
424       6-21-10     99.01 -
                      99.12
425       7-19-10     150.06
426       8-16-10     T.S.O. VI
427       8-16-10     T.S.O. VI
428       8-16-10     154.047
429       9-20-10     T.S.O. VI
430       9-20-10     T.S.O. II
431       11-15-10    T.S.O. III
435       5-16-11     154.047
436       5-16-11     T.S.O. II
437       5-16-11     T.S.O. VI
438       5-16-11     51.60
439       11-21-11    30.04
                      96.001 -
                      96.006,
                      96.020 -
                      96.029,
                      96.040 -
                      96.045,
                      96.055 -
                      96.062,
442       3-19-12     96.075 -
                      96.082,
                      96.095 -
                      96.099,
                      96.110 -
                      96.114,
                      96.130 -
                      96.137,
                      96.999
443       4-16-12     T.S.O. VI
444       6-18-12     51.60
445       6-18-12     50.02
446       8-20-12     34.30
447       10-15-12    T.S.O. VI
448       11-19-12    T.S.O. VI
450       12-17-12    150.06
454       3-18-13     T.S.O. VI
455       4-15-13     T.S.O. VI
456       5-20-13     154.026
458       12-16-13    T.S.O. II
                      94.11 -
                      94.18,
                      94.99,
                      150.01 -
                      150.07,
                      150.15,
461       1-21-14     150.45,
                      150.46,
                      151.03,
                      151.07,
                      151.08,
                      151.11,
                      151.12
462       2-18-14     150.45
463       3-17-14     T.S.O. II
464       3-17-14     150.45,
                      150.46
                      34.01,
465       4-21-14     34.02,
                      34.04
466       4-21-14     150.46
467       4-21-14     T.S.O. III
468       4-21-14     T.S.O. III
469       4-21-14     T.S.O. I
471       6-16-14     T.S.O. VI
472       6-16-14     T.S.O. I
                      131.01 -
474       8-18-14     131.10,
                      131.99
477       2-17-15     51.60
478       2-17-15     51.65
479       3-16-15     35.03
480       8-17-15     36.01
481       11-16-15    T.S.O. V
484       3-21-16     98.01 -
                      98.09
485       4-18-16     T.S.O. VI
486       7-18-16     T.S.O. VI
487       7-18-16     32.55
488       7-18-16     T.S.O. I
489       7-18-16     T.S.O. I
                      91.10,
491       10-17-16    91.20,
                      91.30,
                      91.99
492       11-21-16    T.S.O. VI
493       11-21-16    T.S.O. VI
495       12-19-16    51.60
                      32.45,
498       2-21-17     34.20 -
                      34.24
500       4-17-17     T.S.O. VI
501       4-17-17     154.023
502       4-17-17     154.046
503       5-15-17     TSO VI
                      92.01 -
507       2-20-18     92.09,
                      T.S.O. III
509       9-17-18     32.30
510       9-17-18     TSO I
511       11-19-18    TSO VI
514       1-22-19     TSO I
515       1-22-19     TSO VI
517       3-25-19     TSO I
519       6-17-19     TSO I
520       8-19-19     51.60,
                      51.65
521       8-19-19     TSO VI
522       9-16-19     TSO I
523       9-16-19     TSO I
525       1-21-20     TSO I
527       5-18-20     TSO I
528       5-18-20     TSO VI
529       8-17-20     TSO VI
530       10-19-20    TSO I
533       6-21-21     TSO I
534       11-15-21    TSO VI
536       1-18-22     TSO I
540       6-20-22     TSO I
542       9-9-22      TSO VI
543       9-19-22     TSO I
544       10-17-22    TSO I
545       11-21-22    50.02
548       3-27-23     TSO I
549       3-27-23     95.02
550       8-21-23     TSO I
                      34.01,
551       9-18-23     34.02,
                      34.04
553       1-16-24     154.003,
                      154.025
554       1-16-24     TSO VI
556       4-15-24     100.01 -
                      100.11
557       9-16-24     TSO IV
558       9-16-24     110.03,
                      110.12
559       11-18-24    50.04
562       4-21-25     TSO VI
                     
 
