TOWN CODE
of
YUCCA VALLEY, CALIFORNIA
2000
Code current through:
Ord. 327, passed 2-4-2025
 
Development Code current through:
Ord. 327, passed 2-4-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
         This code of the Town of Yucca Valley, as supplemented, contains
ordinances up to and including ordinance 327, passed February 4, 2025.
Ordinances of the Town adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of
this code to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith.
Consult the Town office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision
of the code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
                     American Legal Publishing
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 119
AN ORDINANCE OF THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF YUCCA VALLEY, CALIFORNIA,
ADOPTING THE RECODIFIED TOWN OF YUCCA VALLEY MUNICIPAL CODE
BE IT ORDAINED by the Mayor and Town Council of the Town of Yucca Valley,
California, as follows:
   SECTION 1: From and after the date of passage of this ordinance, the
Recodified Town Code of the Town of Yucca Valley, California prepared by
Sterling Codifiers, Inc., containing the compilation of all ordinances of a
general nature together with the changes made to said ordinances, under the
direction of the governing body of the Town, shall be accepted in all courts
without question as the official code and law of the Town as enacted by the
Mayor and Town Council.
   SECTION 2: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
provided by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a
general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions
of the official Town Code is identified by the proper catchline and is inserted
in the proper place in each of the official copies, three copies of which shall
be maintained in the office of the Town Clerk, certified as to correctness and
available for inspection at any and all times that said office is regularly
open.
   SECTION 3: All ordinances of a general nature included in this official Town
Code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision and the
fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the governing
body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous effectiveness
of ordinances included in said official Town Code. All ordinances of a special
nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances, franchises, vacating
ordinances, annexation ordinance zoning or rezoning a particular parcel of
property shall continue in full force and effect unless specifically repealed
or amended by a provision of the Town Code. Such ordinances and other
ordinances of a special or particular subject matter which the Council
considers are not appropriate to a general compilation of laws of a general
permanent nature are not intended to be included in the official Town Code.
   SECTION 4: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such Code, or
to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or alter or tamper with such
Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the Town to be
misrepresented thereby.
   SECTION 5: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   SECTION 6: Within fifteen (15) days after the adoption hereof, the Town
Clerk shall certify to the adoption of this Ordinance and cause it to be
published once in a newspaper of general circulation printed and published in
the County and Circulated in the Town pursuant to Section 36933 of the
Government Code.
   SECTION 7: This Ordinance shall become effective thirty (30) days after the
date of its adoption.
   APPROVED AND ADOPTED by the Town Council and signed by the Mayor and
attested by the Town Clerk this 2nd day of November 2000.
[IMAGE]
TITLE 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 1.01
YUCCA VALLEY TOWN CODE
SECTION:
1.01.001: Declaration Of Purpose
1.01.002: Establishment Of Municipal Code
1.01.003: Contents Of Code
1.01.004: Outline Of Code
1.01.005: Maintenance Of Code
1.01.010: Interpretations
1.01.020: Effect Of Code On Past Actions And Obligations
1.01.030: Partial Invalidity
1.01.040: Territorial Limitation
1.01.050: Local Significance
1.01.100: Rules Of Construction
1.01.110: Definitions
1.01.001: DECLARATION OF PURPOSE:
The Town Council finds that it is desirable and in the public interest to
establish a municipal code in order to provide a scheme of organization for the
classification and grouping of ordinances which the Town Council may adopt. The
Town Council intends in adopting ordinances of a general and permanent nature
to provide for their placement in accordance with the scheme of the code. This
will provide the user with a convenient and logical compilation of the
ordinances of the Town. (Ord. 3, 11-27-1991)
1.01.002: ESTABLISHMENT OF MUNICIPAL CODE:
This Code shall be known as the TOWN OF YUCCA VALLEY MUNICIPAL CODE. It shall
be sufficient to refer to this Code as the Town of Yucca Valley Municipal Code
in any prosecution for the violation of any provisions of this Code. It shall
also be sufficient to designate any ordinance adding to, amending, correcting
or repealing provisions of this Code as an addition or amendment to, or a
repeal of, the Town of Yucca Valley Municipal Code, or a portion thereof. (Ord.
3, 11-27-1991)
1.01.003: CONTENTS OF CODE:
   A.   Special Ordinances: This Town Code shall consist of all ordinances
adopted by the Town Council which are of a general and permanent nature. An
ordinance relating to any of the following subject matters is not considered an
ordinance of general and permanent nature and need not be included within the
Town Code:
      The naming of streets and roads;
      Granting, altering or withdrawing franchises;
      Levying real property tax;
      Calling an election;
      Annexation proceedings;
      Interim zoning measures;
      Zoning or rezoning a particular parcel of property;
Such other ordinances of a special or a particular subject matter which the
Town Council considers are not appropriate to a general compilation of laws of
a general and permanent nature.
   B.   Other Ordinances Not Part Of Code: Other ordinances adopted by the Town
Council on November 27, 1991, the date of original adoption of this Town Code,
are not included as part of the Town Code, and any future amendments to said
other ordinances will not be included as part of the Town Code unless otherwise
expressly stated in said future amendments. Those ordinances are as follows:
      Ordinance No. 1, providing that all ordinances of the County of San
Bernardino applicable before incorporation of the Town of Yucca Valley shall
remain in full force and effect as Town ordinances.
      Ordinance No. 2, imposing a sales and use tax to be administered by the
State Board of Equalization and providing penalties for violations.
      Ordinance No. 4, appointing the Town Council as the planning agency.
(Ord. 3, 11-27-1991)
1.01.004: OUTLINE OF CODE:
   A.   The ordinances of the town which are of a general and permanent nature
shall be organized and grouped according to subject matter. (Ord. 3, 11-27-
1991; amd. 2000 Code)
   B.   Ordinances which are adopted from time to time shall be classified and
organized under the following scheme of titles:
      Title 1   General Provisions
      Title 2   Administration And Personnel
      Title 3   Revenue And Finance
      Title 4   Boards And Commissions
      Title 5   Businesses And Licenses
      Title 6   Health And Sanitation
      Title 7   Reserved
      Title 8   Buildings And Construction
      Title 9   Development Code
      Title 10 Animals
      Title 11 Peace, Morals And Safety
      Title 12 Vehicles And Traffic
(Ord. 3, 11-27-1991; amd. 2000 Code; Ord. 250, 11-18-2014)
1.01.005: MAINTENANCE OF CODE:
At least three (3) copies of this code, duly certified by the town clerk, shall
be maintained on file in the office of the town clerk as official copies of
this code. Additional copies of this code shall be distributed to the
departments of the town as shall be prescribed by the town manager.
Duly certified copies of each ordinance making a change in this code shall be
filed in the office of the town clerk in books for such purpose, indexed for
ready reference.
The town clerk shall cause amending ordinances to be included in the code in a
proper manner, including a citation as to the ordinance number and date of
passage of the amending ordinance. Updates to this code shall be to all forms
of the code; namely: hard copy, electronic copy and internet copy. (Ord. 3, 11-
27-1991; amd. 2000 Code)
1.01.010: INTERPRETATIONS:
The provisions of this code and all proceedings under it are to be construed to
effect its objects and to promote justice. All the provisions of this code and
all other town ordinances shall be interpreted to refer to the appropriate or
designated officer or office of the town, and whether an ordinance, uniform
code, statute or other matter which is adopted by reference refers to any
department, officer, employee, inspection, police or other function, unless the
context requires otherwise, all references shall be to the appropriate or
designated office, officer, department, agency, employee or function of the
town, or to the person or agency performing the function for the town. (Ord. 3,
11-27-1991)
1.01.020: EFFECT OF CODE ON PAST ACTIONS AND OBLIGATIONS:
Neither the adoption of this code nor the repeal or amendment by this code of
any ordinance or part or portion of any ordinance previously in effect in the
town, or within the territory currently comprising the town, shall in any
manner affect the prosecution for the violation of any ordinance, which
violation was committed prior to the effective date of this code, nor be
construed as a waiver of any license, fee or penalty on such effective date due
and unpaid under such ordinances, nor be construed as affecting any of the
provisions of such ordinances relating to the collection of any such license,
fee or penalty or the penal provisions applicable to any violation of such
ordinances, nor to affect the validity of any bond or cash deposit required to
be posted, filed or deposited pursuant to any ordinance, and all vested rights
and obligations pertaining to such ordinances shall continue in full force and
effect. The repeal of an ordinance shall not repeal the repealing clause of
such ordinance or revive any ordinance which has been repealed thereby. (Ord.
3, 11-27-1991)
1.01.030: PARTIAL INVALIDITY:
If any chapter, section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of
this code is for any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by any court
of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct
and independent provision and such holding shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions thereof. The town council hereby declares that it would have
passed this code, and each section, subsection, sentence, clause and phrase
thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections,
sentences, clauses or phrases had been declared invalid or unconstitutional;
and if for any reason the code should be declared invalid or unconstitutional,
then the original ordinance or ordinances shall be in full force and effect.
(Ord. 3, 11-27-1991)
1.01.040: TERRITORIAL LIMITATION:
This Code shall refer only to the omission or commission of acts within the
territorial limits of the Town and that territory outside of the Town over
which the Town has jurisdiction or control by virtue of the constitution, or
any law, or by reason of ownership or control of property. (Ord. 3, 11-17-1991)
1.01.050: LOCAL SIGNIFICANCE:
All references in this Code to places, acts, persons or things and all else in
relation to this Code shall be construed to mean that the same are applicable
to this Town, whether the Town is mentioned in each particular section or not.
Portions of this Code have been adopted from or relate to the same subject as
is set forth in the San Bernardino County Code. To the extent that any section,
subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this Code is in conflict with the San
Bernardino County Code provisions so adopted, the later-adopted portion of this
Code shall control and shall take precedence over the inconsistent portions of
said San Bernardino County Code. (Ord. 3, 11-27-1991)
1.01.100: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION:
Unless the provisions of this Code otherwise specifically provide, or the
context of this Code indicates to the contrary, the general provisions, rules
of construction and definitions set forth in this Chapter shall govern the
construction of this Code. The provisions of this Code, and all proceedings
under it, are to be construed with a view to effect their objects and to
promote justice.
   A.   Effect Of Headings: The title, chapter, article and section headings
contained in this Code shall not be deemed to govern, limit, modify or in any
manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any title,
chapter, article or section of this Code.
   B.   Meaning Of Section And Subsection: "Section" shall mean a section of
this Code, unless some other source is specifically set forth. "Subsection"
shall mean a subsection of the section in which the term occurs, unless some
other section is expressly set forth.
   C.   Acts By Deputies: Whenever a power is granted to, or a duty is imposed
upon, a public officer or employee, the power may be exercised or the duty may
be performed by a deputy of such officer or employee or by a person otherwise
duly authorized pursuant to law or ordinance, unless this Code expressly
provides otherwise.
   D.   Writing: "Writing" includes any form of recorded message capable of
comprehension by ordinary visual means. Whenever any notice, report, statement
or record is required or authorized by this Code, such notice, report,
statement or record shall be made in writing in the English language, unless
this Code expressly provides otherwise.
   E.   References To Ordinances; Application To Amendments: Whenever any
reference in this Code is made to an ordinance, the reference shall apply to
such ordinance of the Town, unless this Code expressly provides otherwise.
Whenever any reference is made to any portion of this Code, or to any ordinance
of this Town, the reference shall apply to all amendments, corrections and
additions heretofore, now or hereafter added to this Code.
   F.   Statute Of Limitations: When a limitation or period of time prescribed
in any existing ordinance or statute for acquiring a right or barring a remedy,
or for any other purpose, has begun to run before this Code goes into effect,
the time which has already run shall be deemed a part of the time prescribed in
such limitation. (Ord. 3, 11-27-1991)
1.01.110: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Code, unless a different meaning is apparent from the context
or is specified elsewhere in the Code, the following definitions shall have the
meaning herein ascribed to them:
CALENDAR YEAR: From January 1 through December 31 of any given year.
CITY: Includes the Town and shall mean the Town of Yucca Valley.
COUNCIL: The Town Council of the Town of Yucca Valley.
COUNCILMEMBER: A person duly elected to the Town Council.
COUNTY: The County of San Bernardino, California, or the area within the limits
of San Bernardino County, and such territory outside of San Bernardino County
over which the County has jurisdiction or control by virtue of any
constitutional or statutory provisions.
DAY: Calendar day.
FISCAL YEAR: From July 1 of any given year through June 30 of the following
year.
GENDER: The masculine gender shall include the feminine and neuter genders.
GOODS: Includes wares and merchandise.
MAY: Shall be permissive.
MONTH: A calendar month, unless otherwise expressed.
NUMBER: The singular number shall include the plural, and the plural number
shall include the singular.
OATH: Includes affirmation.
OFFICE TIME STANDARD: Wherever certain hours are named in this Code, they shall
mean standard time or daylight saving time as may be in current use in the
Town.
OPERATE: Includes carrying on, keeping, conducting or maintaining.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant, tenant in common or joint tenant of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Unless this Code expressly provides otherwise, includes any natural
person, firm, company, corporation, club, trust or similar organization,
partnership, association, public corporation, political subdivision, town
(except the Town of Yucca Valley), the County of San Bernardino, any district
in the County of San Bernardino, the State of California or the United States
of America, or any department or agency or any employee, manager, officer,
agent, lessee or servant of any thereof.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Includes money, goods, chattels, things in action and
evidences of debt.
POLICE, POLICE CHIEF OR CHIEF OF POLICE: The agency which performs the
appropriate law enforcement function for the Town, and the head of the agency
or division thereof which at the time involved has responsibility for
performing the police function for or within the Town.
PROPERTY: Includes real and personal property.
QUARTERLY: Where used to designate a period of time, shall mean the first three
(3) calendar months of any given year or any succeeding period of three (3)
calendar months.
REAL PROPERTY: Includes land, tenements and hereditaments.
SALE: Includes any sale, exchange, barter or offer for sale.
SHALL: Is mandatory.
STATE: The State of California.
STREET: Includes all streets, highways, avenues, boulevards, alleys, courts,
places, squares, curbs or other public ways in the Town which have been or may
thereafter be dedicated and open to public use, or such other public property
so designated in any law of the State.
TENANT OR OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person
who occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or
with others.
TENSE: The present tense shall include the past and future tense, and the
future tense shall include the present tense.
TOWN: The Town of Yucca Valley.
TOWN MANAGER: The appointed official of the Town who occupies the position of
chief administrative officer of the Town.
Words and phrases not defined in this Code are construed according to the
approved usage of the language, or, when appropriate, by reference to
definitions contained in State or Federal law. (Ord. 3, 11-27-1991)
CHAPTER 1.02
GENERAL PENALTY AND CITATIONS
SECTION:
1.02.010: Violation; Infraction
1.02.020: Aiding And Abetting
1.02.030: Establishment Of Offenses As Infractions
1.02.040: Punishments
1.02.050: Violations Public Nuisances
1.02.060: Nuisances; Recovery Of Abatement Expenses
1.02.070: Violation Of Administrative Provisions
1.02.080: Notices
1.02.090: Citations In Lieu Of Immediate Arraignment
1.02.100: Recovery Of Attorneys' Fees
1.02.010: VIOLATION; INFRACTION:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision or fail to
comply with any of the requirements of this Code or the provisions of any
ordinance or code adopted by reference by this Code or any provision of any
ordinance of the Town not included within this Code. Any person violating any
of such provisions or failing to comply with any of the mandatory requirements
of this Code or any ordinance or code adopted by reference by this Code or any
other Town ordinance shall be guilty of an infraction, unless such violation is
specifically designated as constituting a misdemeanor. Each such person shall
be guilty of a separate offense for each and every day during any portion of
which any violation of any provision of this Code, or any provision of any
ordinance or code adopted by reference by this Code, or any other Town
ordinance is committed, continued or permitted by such person, and may be
punished accordingly.
   B.   Any provision or requirement of this Code or otherwise as referred to
above, the violation of which or the failure to comply with which, is
designated as an infraction, shall be prosecutable as a misdemeanor upon a
third violation and each violation thereafter of the same provision by the same
individual. In addition, any such violation or failure to comply may be
prosecuted originally as a misdemeanor in the discretion of the Town Attorney
or any deputy district attorney, upon a showing by the enforcing agency of the
seriousness of the particular alleged violation. (Ord. 3, 11-27-1991)
   C.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, any violation of any of the provisions
of this Code may be, but is not required to be, prosecuted as an administrative
citation procedure pursuant to
chapter 1.04 of this title. (Ord. 97, 11-5-1998)
1.02.020: AIDING AND ABETTING:
Whenever in this Code any act or omission is made unlawful, it shall include
causing, allowing, permitting, aiding, abetting, suffering or concealing the
fact of such act or omission. (Ord. 3, 11-27-1991)
1.02.030: ESTABLISHMENT OF OFFENSES AS INFRACTIONS:
Any violation expressly declared to be punishable, in the discretion of the
court, by either a fine or by a fine or imprisonment, or both, shall become an
infraction for all purposes under any of the following circumstances:
   A.   Where a judgment imposes a punishment of a fine not exceeding one
hundred dollars ($100.00) in the case of a first offense;
   B.   When the court grants probation to a defendant without the imposition
of a sentence and, at the time of granting probation, or on application of the
defendant or probation officer thereafter, the court declares the offense to be
an infraction; or
   C.   When the Town Attorney or any deputy district attorney files in a court
having jurisdiction over misdemeanor offenses a complaint specifying that the
offense is an infraction. (Ord. 10, 3-19-1992)
1.02.040: PUNISHMENTS:
   A.   Misdemeanor: Any person convicted of a misdemeanor under the provisions
of this Code shall be punishable by a fine of not more than one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00), or by imprisonment in the County Jail for a period not
exceeding six (6) months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
   B.   Infraction: Any person convicted of an infraction under the provisions
of this Code shall be punishable for a first conviction by a fine of not more
than one hundred dollars ($100.00), for a second conviction within a period of
one year by a fine of not more than two hundred dollars ($200.00), and for a
third or any subsequent conviction within a period of one year by a fine of not
more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 3, 11-27-1991)
1.02.050: VIOLATIONS PUBLIC NUISANCES:
   A.   In addition to other penalties provided by law, any condition caused or
permitted to exist in violation of any provision of this Code, or any such
threatened violation, shall be deemed a public nuisance and may be abated as
such by the Town in accordance with applicable statutes.
   B.   Also, any such violation or threatened violation as referred to in
subsection A of this Section, or any condition caused or permitted to exist in
violation of any of the provisions of any code adopted by reference by this
Code, or of the provisions of any other Town ordinance, shall be deemed a
public nuisance which may be abated by the Town Attorney in a civil judicial
action. (Ord. 3, 11-27-1991)
1.02.060: NUISANCES; RECOVERY OF ABATEMENT EXPENSES:
   A.   Whenever any person creating, causing, committing or maintaining a
public nuisance, as referred to in Section
1.02.050 of this Chapter, or other public nuisance, as defined under State law
or other ordinance or regulation, has been given notice, by or on behalf of the
Town Attorney or by any other Town officer, employee or policing agent
authorized to give such notice, to abate such nuisance or cease and desist from
continuing such nuisance or violation of law, and such person who was given
notice fails, refuses or neglects to comply with the notice within the time
specified therein, or if such a time is not specified, taken within a time
reasonably sufficient to enable such compliance, such noncomplying person shall
be liable to the Town for any and all costs and expenses to the Town involved
in thereafter abating the nuisance and in obtaining compliance with or
enforcing the law as referred to or encompassed in the said notice.
   B.   Costs and expenses as referred to in subsection A of this Section may
include, but are not limited to, any and all direct costs and expenses related
to such things as personnel salaries and benefits, operational overhead, rent,
interest, fees for experts or consultants, legal costs or expenses, including
attorney fees, claims against the Town arising as a consequence of the nuisance
or violation, and procedures associated with collecting monies due hereunder.
   C.   The provisions of subsection A of this Section shall also apply to any
person who received a notice, as specified therein, and thereafter the nuisance
or violation was abated, but such person subsequently allowed or was
responsible for a recurrence of the nuisance or violation.
   D.   The liability of any person for the payment of the costs and expenses,
not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00), provided for in subsection A of
this Section, may be waived in whole or in part by the Town Attorney in any
case wherein he determines, in his sole discretion, that the failure or refusal
of such person to comply with the notice therein involved was based upon a good
faith and bona fide issue of law or fact specially involved in the
circumstances of the case. Any determination or decision of the Town Attorney
in this regard shall be final and conclusive.
   E.   Monies due to the Town pursuant to this Section may be recovered in an
appropriate civil action. Alternatively, such liability may be enforced by
special assessment proceedings against the parcel of land upon which the
nuisance existed, which proceedings may be conducted in a manner substantively
similar to proceedings described in California Government Code sections 39574
et seq., relating to weed abatement assessments. (Ord. 3, 11-27-1991)
1.02.070: VIOLATION OF ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS:
The violation of, or the failure or omission to perform in accordance with, any
administrative provision of this Code by any officer or employee of the Town
shall generally not be considered a criminal act, but may be deemed a failure
to perform the duties or to observe the rules or regulations of the department,
office, commission or board within the meaning of the rules and regulations of
the Town, or of the civil service or other personnel regulations of the Town if
applicable. (Ord. 3, 11-27-1991)
1.02.080: NOTICES:
   A.   Service: Whenever a notice is required to be given, or may be given,
under any provision of this Code or any provision of any code adopted by
reference by this Code or any provisions of any ordinance or resolution of the
Town not included within this Code, such notice may be given as herein
provided. Unless different or special provisions are otherwise specifically
made in this Code or in some other applicable enactment, any such notice may be
given either by personal delivery thereof to the person to be notified, or by
deposit in the United States mail in a sealed envelope, postage prepaid,
addressed to such person to be notified, at that person's last known address as
the same appears in the public records or their records pertaining to the
matters to which such notice is directed. Service by mail shall be deemed to
have been completed at the time of deposit in the Post Office or in the
official receptacle thereof.
   B.   Proof: Proof of giving any notice may be made by the certificate of any
officer or employee of this Town or by the affidavit or declaration, under
penalty of perjury, of any person over the age of eighteen (18) years, which
shows service in conformity with this Code or other provisions of law
applicable to the subject matter concerned. (Ord. 3, 11-27-1991)
1.02.090: CITATIONS IN LIEU OF IMMEDIATE ARRAIGNMENT:
   A.   Notice To Appear In Lieu Of Arrest: In any case in which a person is
arrested for a violation of any provision of this Code and does not demand to
be taken before a Magistrate, such person may, in lieu of being taken before a
Magistrate, be issued a written notice to appear in court and may then be
released, all pursuant to and in accordance with the procedures prescribed by
California Penal Code section 853.6 et seq.
   B.   Issuance Of Citations By Designated Officers And Employees: Officers
and employees of the Town who have the discretionary duty to enforce a statute
or ordinance may, pursuant to California Penal Code section 836.5 and subject
to the provisions of this section, arrest a person without a warrant whenever
any such officer or employee has reasonable cause to believe that the person to
be arrested has committed an offense in the officer's or employee's presence
which he has the discretionary duty to enforce, and to issue a notice to
appear, and to release such person on his written promise to appear in court,
pursuant to California Penal Code section 853.6. No officer or employee shall
be allowed by his superior to exercise the arrest and citation authority
conferred in this section unless such officer or employee is within a
classification of Town officers and employees designated by resolution of the
Town Council to exercise such arrest and citation authority as to specified
violations. The Town Manager shall establish and cause to be administered a
special enforcement training program designated to instruct each officer or
employee who will exercise such arrest and citation authority, regarding the
provisions of the statutes and ordinances to be enforced, the evidentiary
prerequisites to proper procedures for making arrests or otherwise prudently
exercising such arrest and citation authority, and the legal and practical
ramifications and limitations attendant thereto. Any such officers or employees
shall be appropriately instructed to deposit executed citations or notices with
the Police Department for filing with the court, after review for legal
sufficiency. (Ord. 3, 11-27-1991)
1.02.100: RECOVERY OF ATTORNEYS' FEES:
   A.   In any action, administrative proceeding, or special proceeding to
abate a nuisance, the prevailing party may recover its attorneys' fees,
provided that the Town elected, at the initiation of such individual action or
proceeding, to recover its own attorneys' fees. In no action, administrative
proceeding, or special proceeding shall an award of attorneys' fees to a
prevailing party exceed the amount of reasonable attorneys' fees incurred by
the Town in the action or proceeding. (Ord. 283, 3-5-2019)
CHAPTER 1.04
ADMINISTRATIVE CITATION PROCEDURES
SECTION:
1.04.010: Purpose And Intent
1.04.020: Definitions
1.04.030: Administrative Citations
1.04.040: Satisfaction Of Administrative Citation
1.04.050: Administrative Hearing Procedures
1.04.060: Appeal Procedures
1.04.070: Penalties
1.04.010: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose and intent of this chapter is to provide additional remedies to
correct violations and, where necessary, to penalize violators for failure to
comply with town codes and ordinances. The town council hereby finds and
determines that enforcement of the town codes and ordinances are matters of
local concern and serve important public purposes. This chapter is intended to
protect the public health, safety and welfare of the town. (Ord. 97, 11-5-1998)
1.04.020: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their
definitions shall have the meaning given herein. Words used in the present
tense include the future, words in the plural number include the singular
number and words used in the singular number include the plural number. Words
not defined shall be given their common and ordinary meanings.
ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL: Any person authorized to enforce any of the provisions of
this code and its ordinances.
LEGAL INTEREST: Any interest represented by an instrument recorded in the
county recorder's office, county of San Bernardino, including, but not limited
to, a deed of trust, deed, judgment lien, tax or assessment lien, or mechanic's
lien.
REPRESENTATIVE: The duly appointed representative of the responsible party.
RESPONSIBLE PARTY: Any natural person, firm, association, corporation,
partnership or limited liability company, whom an enforcement official
determines is responsible for causing or maintaining a violation of this code,
including, but not limited to, a property owner, tenant, party in possession of
real property or party with a legal interest in real property. (Ord. 97, 11-5-
1998)
1.04.030: ADMINISTRATIVE CITATIONS:
   A.   Authority Of Enforcement Officials: Any enforcement official may issue
an administrative citation to any responsible party whom the enforcement
official determines has violated any ordinance or section of this code. (Ord.
97, 11-5-1998)
   B.   Issuance Of Administrative Citation: Whenever an enforcement official
determines that an infraction or misdemeanor violation of the town's municipal
code has occurred or that a violation exists which is deemed to constitute a
public nuisance as set forth in the town's municipal code and/or applicable
statute, rule, code or regulation, the officer or agent may issue an
administrative citation to any party responsible for the violation as follows:
      1.   If the responsible party is a corporation, the enforcement official
shall attempt to locate any one of the following individuals and issue to that
individual an administrative citation: the president or other head of the
corporation, a vice president, a secretary or assistant secretary, a treasurer
or assistant treasurer, a general manager, or a person authorized by the
corporation to receive service of process in a civil action. If the office
address of any of the above listed individuals is known to the town, a copy of
the administrative citation also shall be mailed to one of those individuals by
certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested. Simultaneously the
same notice may be sent by regular mail. If a notice sent by certified mail is
returned unsigned, then service shall be deemed effective pursuant to regular
mail, provided the notice that was sent by regular mail is not returned.
      2.   If the responsible party is a business other than a corporation, the
enforcement official shall attempt to locate the business owner and issue the
business owner an administrative citation. If the enforcement official can
locate only the manager of the business, the administrative citation may be
given to the manager of the business. If the address of the business is known,
a copy of the administrative citation also shall be mailed to that address to
the attention of the business owner or a responsible party. The mailing shall
be sent by certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested.
Simultaneously the same notice may be sent by regular mail. If a notice sent by
certified mail is returned unsigned, then service shall be deemed effective
pursuant to regular mail, provided the notice that was sent by regular mail is
not returned.
      3.   The enforcement official shall attempt to obtain on the
administrative citation the signature of the responsible party or, in cases in
which the responsible party is a corporation or business, the signature of the
person served with the administrative citation. If a responsible party or
person served refuses or fails to sign the administrative citation, the failure
or refusal to sign shall not affect the validity of the citation or of
subsequent proceedings.
      4.   If the enforcement official is unable to locate a responsible party
for the violation, the administrative citation shall be mailed to the
responsible party by certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested.
Simultaneously, the same notice may be sent by regular mail. If a notice sent
by certified mail is returned unsigned, then service shall be deemed effective
pursuant to regular mail, provided the notice that was sent by regular mail is
not returned.
      5.   If the enforcement official does not succeed in serving the
responsible party personally or by certified mail or by regular mail, the
enforcement official shall post the administrative citation on any real
property within the town in which the town has knowledge that the responsible
party has a legal interest, and such posting shall be deemed effective service.
      6.   If the enforcement official does not succeed in serving the
responsible party personally, by certified mail or regular mail, and the town
is not aware that the responsible party has a legal interest in any real
property within the town, the enforcement official shall cause the
administrative citation to be published once a week for four (4) successive
weeks in a local newspaper published at least once a week. (Ord. 187, 1-10-
2008)
   C.   Contents Of Administrative Citation: The administrative citation shall
contain at a minimum the following:
      1.   The date and location of the violation and the approximate time the
violation occurred.
      2.   The code section violated and a description of how the section was
violated.
      3.   The amount of the fine imposed for the violation and the time within
which and the place at which the fine shall be paid.
      4.   An order prohibiting another occurrence of the code violation.
      5.   A description of the administrative citation review process,
including the time within which to contest the administrative citation and the
place from which to obtain a request for hearing form to contest the
administrative citation.
      6.   The name and signature of the citing enforcement official. (Ord. 97,
11-5-1998; amd. Ord. 187, 1-10-2008)
1.04.040: SATISFACTION OF ADMINISTRATIVE CITATION:
Upon receipt of a citation, the responsible party shall either:
   A.   Remedy the violation(s), if the violation(s) is of such a nature that
it can be remedied. If the violation(s) is corrected to the satisfaction of the
town of Yucca Valley before the correction date provided on the citation, no
fine shall be payable.
   B.   Pay the assessed fine to the town of Yucca Valley if the violation is
not corrected before the correction date issued on the administrative citation.
Payment of a fine shall neither excuse nor discharge the failure to correct the
violation(s) nor shall it bar further enforcement action by the town. If the
responsible person fails to correct the violation(s), subsequent administrative
citations may be issued for the same violation(s). The fines shall increase in
accordance with the town's adopted fee resolution for administrative citations.
(Ord. 187, 1-10-2008)
1.04.050: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING PROCEDURES:
   A.   Any responsible party to whom an administrative citation is issued may
contest the citation no later than twenty one (21) days from the date of
service of the administrative citation by:
      1.   Completing a request for hearing form and returning it to the town;
and
      2.   Either depositing the administrative fine with the town or providing
notice that a request for an advance deposit hardship waiver has been filed.
A request for hearing form may be obtained from the department specified on the
administrative citation. The person requesting the hearing shall be notified by
certified mail, return receipt requested, of the time and place of the hearing
at least ten (10) days before the date of the hearing. Any documentation, other
than the administrative citation, which the enforcement official has submitted
or will submit to the hearing officer shall be served on the person requesting
the hearing by certified mail, return receipt requested, at least five (5) days
before the date of the hearing.
   B.   The town shall set the date and time for the administrative hearing not
less than fifteen (15) days nor more than sixty (60) days after the request for
hearing form is filed and the administrative fine is deposited with the town.
The town shall send notice of the date, time and place of the hearing to the
person requesting the hearing by certified mail, return receipt requested, at
least ten (10) days before the date of the hearing.
   C.   The responsible party requesting the hearing may request one
continuance, but in no event may the hearing begin later than ninety (90) days
after the request for hearing form is filed and the administrative fine is
deposited with the town.
   D.   The director of the department through which the administrative
citation was issued, or his designee, shall select an administrative hearing
officer. The administrative hearing officer may be, without limitation, a
member of the staff of the department through which the administrative citation
was issued. In no event, however, shall the enforcement official who issued the
administrative citation be the administrative hearing officer.
   E.   Administrative hearings are informal, and formal rules of evidence and
discovery do not apply. Each party shall have the opportunity to present
evidence in support of his case and to cross examine witnesses. The town bears
the burden of proof at an administrative hearing to establish a violation of
this code. The administrative citation and any additional reports submitted by
the enforcement official shall constitute prima facie evidence of the facts
contained in those documents. The administrative hearing officer must use a
preponderance of the evidence as the standard of evidence in deciding the
issue.
   F.   If the responsible party fails to attend the scheduled hearing, the
hearing will proceed without the responsible party, and he will be deemed to
have waived his right to an administrative hearing. Notwithstanding, if service
of the administrative citation is made by posting the citation on real property
within the town in which the responsible party has a legal interest, and the
responsible party provides verifiable and substantial evidence that removal of
the administrative citation from the property by a third person caused the
responsible party's failure to attend the scheduled hearing, the responsible
party shall be entitled to an administrative hearing.
   G.   No later than thirty (30) days after the date on which the
administrative hearing concludes, the administrative hearing officer shall
issue a written decision to uphold or cancel the administrative citation. The
administrative hearing officer shall set forth the reasons for the decision.
The decision shall be served upon the responsible party. If the administrative
hearing officer upholds the administrative citation, the town shall retain the
fine deposited by the responsible party. If the administrative hearing officer
cancels the administrative citation, the fine deposited with the town shall be
promptly refunded. The administrative hearing officer's written decision is
final and shall notify the responsible party of his right to appeal as provided
herein.
   H.   The town may collect any past due administrative fines by use of any
available legal means. (Ord. 97, 11-5-1998)
1.04.060: APPEAL PROCEDURES:
Within twenty (20) days after service of the decision of the administrative
hearing officer upon the responsible party, he may seek review of the decision
by filing a notice of appeal with the municipal court. The responsible party
shall serve upon the town clerk, either in person or by first class mail, a
copy of the notice of appeal. If the responsible party fails to timely file a
notice of appeal, the administrative hearing officer's decision shall be deemed
confirmed. (Ord. 97, 11-5-1998)
1.04.070: PENALTIES:
Failure to pay an administrative fine is a misdemeanor. Filing a criminal
misdemeanor action does not preclude the town from using any other legal remedy
available to gain compliance with the administrative order. (Ord. 97, 11-5-
1998)
CHAPTER 1.06
TOWN SEAL
SECTION:
1.06.010: Adoption
1.06.020: Design
1.06.010: ADOPTION:
A corporate seal for the Town is adopted, the design of which seal shall be as
set out in Section
1.06.020 of this Chapter. (Ord. 3, 11-27-1991)
1.06.020: DESIGN:
The seal adopted in Section
1.06.010 of this Chapter shall be circular in form and shall not be less than
two inches (2") in diameter. Around its circumference shall appear the words
"Town of Yucca Valley, California", and, within, the words "Incorporated
November 27, 1991". (Ord. 3, 11-27-1991)
TITLE 2
ADMINISTRATION AND PERSONNEL
CHAPTER 2.05
MAYOR AND TOWN COUNCIL
SECTION:
Part I. General Provisions
2.05.010: Salary Of Council Members
2.05.020: Administrative Services Of The Town
2.05.030: Appointment As Redevelopment Agency
2.05.040: Salary Of Redevelopment Agency Members
2.05.050: Eligibility Of Council Members
2.05.060: Adoption Of Rules And Procedures For Council And Constituent Body/
Commission Meetings And Other Related Functions And Activities
2.05.060.5: Alternative Methodologies For Filling Council Vacancy
Part II. Elections
2.05.070: Filing Fee Required
2.05.080: Payment Of Fee
2.05.090: Elections To Be Held In Even Numbered Years
2.05.100: By-District Electoral System
2.05.110: Establishment Of Town Council Electoral Districts
2.05.120: Election Schedule
PART I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
2.05.010: SALARY OF COUNCIL MEMBERS:
   A.   Pursuant to California Government Code section 36516, compensation
shall be paid to each member of the Town Council in an amount not to exceed the
compensation schedule of such section as adjusted. More particularly, effective
January 1, 2025, the amount of compensation to be paid to each member of the
Town Council shall be the sum of nine hundred and fifty dollars ($950.00) per
month with no automatic future increases absent amendment of this section. The
compensation prescribed herein is and shall be exclusive of any amounts payable
to each member of the Town Council as reimbursement for actual and necessary
expenses incurred in the performance of official duties for the Town; and,
accordingly, each member of the Town Council shall receive reimbursement for
such actual and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of official
duties of the Town, pursuant to the provisions of California Government Code
section 36514.5. Such reimbursement shall be as established by a policy
resolution adopted by the Town Council.
   B.   Members of the Town Council are entitled to those same benefits that
are available, and paid by the Town, for its employees in accordance with
California Government Code section 36516(d). (Ord. 272, 10-17-2017; Ord. 292,
5-18-2021; Ord. 306, 6-6-2023; Ord. 313, 2-20-2024)
2.05.020: ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES OF THE TOWN:
   A.   The Town Council and its members shall deal with the administrative
services of the Town only through the Town Manager, except for the purpose of
inquiry, and neither the Council nor any members thereof shall give orders to
any subordinates of the Town Manager, either publicly or privately.
   B.   Neither the Council nor any of its commissions or members shall direct,
request or attempt to influence, either directly or indirectly, the appointment
of any person to office or employment by the Town Manager or in any manner
interfere with the Town Manager or prevent him/her from exercising his/her own
judgment in the appointment of officers and employees in the administrative
service. (Ord. 223, 3-1-2011)
2.05.030: APPOINTMENT AS REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY:
The Town Council finds and declares there is a need for a Redevelopment Agency
to function in the Town pursuant to the provisions of the Community
Redevelopment Law 1 . The Town Council declares itself to be the Redevelopment
Agency of the Town. (Ord. 223, 3-1-2011)
 
Notes
1 1. HSC § 33000 et seq.
2.05.040: SALARY OF REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY MEMBERS:
Pursuant to California Health and Safety Code section 33114, compensation shall
be paid to each member of the Redevelopment Agency in the amount set forth in
the schedule of such section. More particularly, the amount of compensation to
be paid to each member of the Redevelopment Agency shall be the sum of thirty
dollars ($30.00) per agency meeting attended by the member, in accordance with
California Health and Safety Code section 33114.5. No member shall receive
compensation for attending more than four (4) meetings of the agency per month.
The compensation prescribed herein is and shall be exclusive of any amounts
payable to each member of the Redevelopment Agency as reimbursement for actual
and necessary expenses incurred by him/her in the performance of official
duties for the agency; and accordingly, each member of the agency shall receive
reimbursement for such actual and necessary expenses incurred in the
performance of official duties of the agency. Such reimbursement shall be as
established by a policy resolution adopted by the Town Council. (Ord. 223, 3-1-
2011)
2.05.050: ELIGIBILITY OF COUNCIL MEMBERS:
No member of the Town Council shall be eligible for appointment to any
authorized position, contract employment position or Town lobbyist until one
year has elapsed after such Council member has ceased to be a member of the
Town Council. (Ord. 223, 3-1-2011)
2.05.060: ADOPTION OF RULES AND PROCEDURES FOR COUNCIL AND CONSTITUENT BODY/
COMMISSION MEETINGS AND OTHER RELATED FUNCTIONS AND ACTIVITIES:
The Town Council has adopted by resolution the rules and procedures for
Council, constituent body and commission meetings and other related functions
and activities, entitled the "Manual of Procedural Guidelines for the Conduct
of Town Council and Constituent Body/Commission Meetings", as amended from time
to time by resolution of the Town Council (hereinafter, the "Procedures
Manual"). (Ord. 248, 5-6-2014)
2.05.060.5:   ALTERNATIVE METHODOLOGIES FOR FILLING COUNCIL VACANCY:
   A.   Appointment: Pursuant to Government Code section 36512(b), the Town
Council may fill a vacancy on the Town Council by appointment within the time
frame established by State law. An appointment under this subsection shall be
for the remainder of the term of the former incumbent.
   B.   Special Election: Pursuant to Government Code section 36512(b), the
Town Council may fill a vacancy on the Town Council by calling a special
election within the time frame and process called for under State law. The term
of office under this subsection following the special election shall be for the
remainder of the term of the former incumbent.
   C.   Interim Appointment And Special Election: Pursuant to Government Code
section 36512(c)(3), the Town Council also has the option of filling a vacancy
on the Town Council by making an interim appointment and immediately calling a
special election. Such interim appointment and calling of a special election
shall be done within the time frame called for under State law. The special
election may be held on the date of the next regularly established election or
regularly scheduled Municipal election to be held throughout the Town not less
than one hundred fourteen (114) days from the call of the special election. An
appointment under this option shall be only for that period of time until the
results of the special election for the vacant Council seat are certified and
accepted by the Town Council. Thereafter, the person elected to fill the vacant
Council seat shall serve the remainder of the term of the former incumbent.
   D.   No Majority Appointed Council: Notwithstanding any other provision of
this section, an appointment shall not be made to fill a vacancy on the Town
Council if the appointment would result in a majority of the members serving on
the Town Council having been appointed. In that instance, the vacancy shall be
filled in the following manner:
      1.   The Town Council may call an election to fill the vacancy, to be
held on the next regularly established election date not less than one hundred
fourteen (114) days after the call.
      2.   If the Town Council does not call an election pursuant to subsection
D1 of this section, the vacancy shall be filled at the next regularly
established election date.
   E.   Election Form: If authorized by State law, if the Town Council
determines to call a special election, the Council may determine that that
election will be conducted as an all mailed ballot election or a special
election as set forth herein.
   F.   Vacancy In Seat Of Rotational Mayor Or Mayor Pro Tempore: If the Town
Council vacancy to be filled pursuant to the procedures of this section
consists of the seat of Mayor or Mayor Pro Tempore, then the Council members
remaining after such vacancy shall, before making any appointment or calling a
special election pursuant to this section, appoint the title of Mayor or Mayor
Pro Tempore, as appropriate, to a currently seated Council member. Such
appointment of Mayor or Mayor Pro Tempore shall be made by majority vote of the
Council body present. If the seated Council members are unable to decide upon
an appointment to Mayor or Mayor Pro Tempore, then the appointment shall pass
according to Council member seniority. Such seniority shall be based upon the
length of time each Council member has been seated; as between Council members
who have held their seats for the same length of time, seniority between them
shall be based on the number of votes received for their seat.
   G.   Not For Elected Mayor: This provision only applies in the event that
the Town designates the Mayoral seat as an elected position. An elected Mayor
may not be filled by an interim appointment. If a vacancy is in the Office of
an elected Mayor, then the Town Council has sixty (60) days to make an
appointment, and if it fails to make an appointment, then must call a special
election as required by Government Code section 34902(a). (Ord. 227, 6-21-2011)
PART II. ELECTIONS
2.05.070: FILING FEE REQUIRED:
A filing fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) is established for candidates'
nomination papers for elective offices at Municipal elections held in the Town.
(Ord. 223, 3-1-2011)
2.05.080: PAYMENT OF FEE:
The filing fee required by section
 2.05.070 of this part shall be paid to the Town Clerk by each candidate for
elective office at the time the candidate's nomination paper is filed with the
Clerk. All fees collected in accordance with this section shall be deposited in
the General Fund of the Town of Yucca Valley. (Ord. 223, 3-1-2011)
2.05.090: ELECTIONS TO BE HELD IN EVEN NUMBERED YEARS:
General Municipal elections for the Town shall be held on the same day as the
Statewide general election (i.e., the first Tuesday after the first Monday of
November in each even numbered year). (Ord. 223, 3-1-2011)
2.05.100: BY-DISTRICT ELECTORAL SYSTEM:
   A.   Pursuant to California Government Code section 34886, members of the
Town Council of the Town of Yucca Valley, shall be elected by-district in five
(5) single-member districts.
   B.   1. Beginning with the general Municipal election in November 2018,
members of the Town Council shall be elected in the electoral districts
established by section
2.05.110 of this part and subsequently reapportioned as provided by State law.
Elections shall take place "by-district" as that term is defined in California
Government Code section 34871, meaning one member of the Town Council shall be
elected from each district, by the voters of that district alone. Each member
of the Town Council shall serve a four-year term until his or her successor is
qualified.
      2.   Except as provided in subsection B4 of this section, the Council
member elected or appointed to represent a district must reside in that
district and be a registered voter in that district, and any candidate for Town
Council must live in, and be a registered voter in, the district in which he or
she seeks election at the time nomination papers are issued, pursuant to
California Government Code section 34882 and Elections Code section 10227.
      3.   Termination of residency in a district by a Council member shall
create a vacancy for that Council district unless a substitute residence within
the district is immediately declared and established within thirty (30) days
after the termination of residency.
      4.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, the members of
the Town Council in office at the time this section takes effect shall continue
in office until the expiration of the full term to which he or she was elected
and until his or her successor is qualified. At the end of the term of each
Council member, that member's successor shall be elected on a by-district basis
in the districts established in section
2.05.110 of this part and as provided in section
2.05.120 of this part. An appointee to fill a vacancy in the Office of a Town
Council member who continues in office pursuant to this subsection, may reside
anywhere within the corporate boundaries of the Town and, subject to section
2.05.120 of this part, shall be elected at- large by all the voters of the
Town. (Ord. 278, 5-1-2018)
2.05.110: ESTABLISHMENT OF TOWN COUNCIL ELECTORAL DISTRICTS:
Members of the Town Council shall be elected on a "by-district" basis from the
Council districts established by the Council pursuant to a resolution or
ordinance in accordance with state law. The Town Clerk's office shall keep and
maintain a map of the district established by the Council in accordance with
this section. (Ord. 278, 5-1-2018; amd. Ord. 299, 2-15-2022)
2.05.120: ELECTION SCHEDULE:
Council members shall be elected in Council Districts 1, 3, and 5 beginning at
the general Municipal election in November 2018, and every four (4) years
thereafter. Council members shall be elected in Council Districts 2 and 4
beginning at the general Municipal election in November 2020, and every four
(4) years thereafter. (Ord. 278, 5-1-2018)
CHAPTER 2.08
TOWN MANAGER
SECTION:
2.08.010: Office Created; Term
2.08.020: Eligibility
2.08.030: Compensation And Reimbursement
2.08.040: Designation Of Acting Town Manager
2.08.050: Powers And Duties
2.08.060: Relations With Town Council
2.08.070: Departmental Cooperation
2.08.080: Attendance At Commission Meetings
2.08.090: Removal From Office (Rep. by Ord. 247, 3-18-2014)
2.08.100: Wilful Misconduct (Rep. by Ord. 247, 3-18-2014)
2.08.110: Agreements With Town Council
2.08.010: OFFICE CREATED; TERM:
The office of the town manager is created and established. The town manager
shall be appointed by the town council wholly on the basis of administrative
and executive ability and qualifications. The town manager shall hold office
for and during the pleasure of the town council. (Ord. 3, 11-27-1991)
2.08.020: ELIGIBILITY:
No member of the town council shall be eligible for appointment as town manager
until one year has elapsed after such council member has ceased to be a member
of the town council. (Ord. 3, 11-27-1991)
2.08.030: COMPENSATION AND REIMBURSEMENT:
   A.   Compensation: The town manager shall receive such compensation and
expense allowances as the town council shall from time to time determine, and
such compensation shall be a proper charge against such funds of the town as
the council shall designate.
   B.   Reimbursement: The town manager shall be reimbursed for all actual and
necessary expenses incurred by him in the performance of his official duties.
(Ord. 3, 11-27-1991)
2.08.040: DESIGNATION OF ACTING TOWN MANAGER:
The assistant town manager shall serve as manager pro tempore during any
temporary absence or disability of the town manager. In the event there is no
assistant town manager to so act, the town manager, by a letter filed with the
town clerk, shall designate a qualified town administrative officer to exercise
the powers and perform the duties of manager during his temporary absence or
disability. The town council may appoint an acting or interim town manager.
(Ord. 3, 11-27-1991)
2.08.050: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The town manager shall be the administrative head of the government of the town
under the direction and control of the town council except as otherwise
provided in this chapter. The town manager shall be responsible for the
efficient administration of all affairs of the town which are under his
control. In addition to his general powers as administrative head, and not as a
limitation thereon, he shall be expected to, and shall have the power to 1 :
   A.   Enforce all laws and ordinances of the town and to see that all
franchises, contracts, permits and privileges granted by the town council are
faithfully observed;
   B.   Appoint, remove, promote and demote any and all officers and employees
of the town, except elective officers, the town attorney, the town clerk and
the town treasurer subject to all applicable personnel rules and regulations
which may be adopted by the town council;
   C.   Control, order and give directions to all department heads who are
subject to his appointment and removal authority, and to subordinate officers
and employees of the town under his jurisdiction through their department
heads;
   D.   Conduct studies and effect such organization and reorganization of
offices, positions or units under his direction as may be indicated in the
interest of efficient, effective and economical conduct of the town's business;
   E.   Recommend to the town council for adoption such measures and ordinances
as he deems necessary;
   F.   Attend all meetings of the town council unless excused therefrom by the
mayor individually or the town council as a whole, except when his performance
or removal is under consideration;
   G.   Prepare and submit the proposed annual budget and the proposed annual
salary plan to the town council for its approval;
   H.   Direct and supervise all the purchasing activities of the town;
   I.   Keep the town council at all times fully advised as to the financial
condition and needs of the town;
   J.   Make investigations into the affairs of the town and any department or
division thereof and any contract or the proper performance of any of the
obligations of the town; and further, to investigate all complaints in relation
to matters concerning the administration of the town government and in regard
to the service maintained by public utilities in the town;
   K.   Exercise general supervision over all public buildings, public parks
and all other public properties which are under the control and jurisdiction of
the town council;
   L.   Have the same authority as the mayor (as conveniences to the parties
may dictate) to sign documents specified in California Government Code section
40602 whenever such documents have been approved by the town council for
execution by resolution, motion, minute order or other appropriate action; and
   M.   Perform such other responsibilities and exercise such other powers as
may be delegated to him from time to time by ordinance or resolution or other
official action of the town council. (Ord. 3, 11-27-1991)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  2.40.050 of this title.
2.08.060: RELATIONS WITH TOWN COUNCIL:
The town council and its members shall deal with the administrative services of
the town only through the town manager, except for the purpose of inquiry, and
neither the town council nor any member thereof shall give orders to any
subordinates of the town manager. For purposes hereof, "inquiry" means any and
all communications short of giving orders, directions or instructions to any
member of the administrative staff. Such members shall give all information
reasonably requested by any council member. The town manager shall take his
orders and instructions from the town council only when sitting in a duly
convened meeting of the town council and no individual council member shall
give any orders or instructions to the town manager. The town council shall
instruct the town manager in matters of policy. Any action, determination or
omission of the town manager shall be subject to review by the town council.
The town council may not overrule, change or modify any such action,
determination or omission except by the affirmative vote of at least three (3)
members of the town council. (Ord. 3, 11-27-1991)
2.08.070: DEPARTMENTAL COOPERATION:
It shall be the duty of all subordinate officers and the town attorney, town
clerk and town treasurer to assist the town manager in administering the
affairs of the town efficiently, economically and harmoniously. (Ord. 3, 11-27-
1991)
2.08.080: ATTENDANCE AT COMMISSION MEETINGS:
The town manager may attend any and all meetings of the planning commission,
and any other commission, board or committee created by the town council, upon
his own volition or upon direction of the town council. At such meetings which
the town manager attends, he shall be heard by such commissions, boards or
committees as to all matters upon which he wishes to address the members
thereof. He shall inform such members as to the status of any matter being
considered by the town council, and he shall cooperate to the fullest extent
with members of all commissions, boards or committees appointed by the town
council. (Ord. 3, 11-27-1991)
2.08.090: REMOVAL FROM OFFICE:
(Rep. by Ord. 247, 3-18-2014)
2.08.100: WILFUL MISCONDUCT:
(Rep. by Ord. 247, 3-18-2014)
2.08.110: AGREEMENTS WITH TOWN COUNCIL:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as a limitation on the power or
authority of the town council to enter into any supplemental agreement with the
town manager delineating additional terms and conditions of employment not
inconsistent with any provisions of this chapter, provided an agreement with a
temporary or interim town manager may waive rights otherwise accruing to a town
manager in this chapter. (Ord. 3, 11-27-1991)
CHAPTER 2.10
TOWN CLERK
SECTION:
2.10.010: Office Created; Term
2.10.020: Compensation
2.10.030: Powers And Duties
2.10.040: Deputy Town Clerk
2.10.010: OFFICE CREATED; TERM:
The office of the town clerk is created and established. The power to appoint
and dismiss the town clerk is vested in the town manager. (Ord. 74, 6-6-1996)
2.10.020: COMPENSATION:
The town clerk shall receive such compensation and expense allowance as the
town council shall from time to time determine, and such compensation shall be
a proper charge against the funds of the town as the town council shall
designate. (Ord. 74, 6-6-1996)
2.10.030: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   General: The town clerk shall have all the powers, duties and
responsibilities granted to and imposed upon the office of the town clerk by
the provisions of California Government Code chapter 2 of part 3 of division 3
of title 4, other general laws of the state, the provisions of this code and
the ordinances and resolutions of the town council; provided, however, pursuant
to the provisions of California Government Code section 40805.5, the financial
and accounting duties imposed upon the town clerk by sections 40802 through
40805 of the Government Code shall be performed by the finance director, upon
employment of said officer. (Ord. 132, 8-22-2002)
   B.   Functions: The principal functions of the town clerk shall be to:
      1.   Attend all meetings of the town council and be responsible for the
recording and maintaining of a record of all the actions of the council;
      2.   Keep all ordinances and resolutions of the town council in such a
manner that the information contained therein will be readily accessible and
open to the public. The town clerk shall attach to the original copy of each
ordinance a certificate which shall state the date the ordinance was adopted
and, as to an ordinance requiring publication, that the ordinance has been
published or posted in accordance with law;
      3.   Keep all records of the town council and of the office of the town
clerk in such manner that the information contained therein will be readily
accessible and open to the public until such time as any of the records may be
destroyed, or reproduced and the original destroyed, in accordance with state
law;
      4.   Serve as the official custodian of all town records;
      5.   Be the custodian of the seal of the town 1 ;
      6.   Prepare the town council agendas, in conjunction with and under the
direction of the town manager;
      7.   Perform the duties prescribed by the Elections Code of the state in
conducting municipal elections;
      8.   Perform the duties imposed upon town clerks by the California
political reform act 2 ;
      9.   Be responsible for the publication of all the official advertising
of the town;
      10.   Be responsible for the maintenance and distribution of the town
code;
      11.   Process and refer to the town manager all claims filed against the
town and its officers, agents, or employees, pursuant to the provisions of
California Government Code chapter 1 of part 3 of division 3 of title 1, and
Chapter 3.16 of this Code; and
      12.   Perform such other duties consistent with this Code as may be
required of the Town Clerk by the Town Council. (Ord. 3, 11-27-1991)
 
Notes
1 1. See
  chapter 1.06 of this code.
2 2. Gov.C. § 81000 et seq.
2.10.040: DEPUTY TOWN CLERK:
The Town Clerk shall have the authority and is hereby authorized to appoint a
Deputy Town Clerk as may be necessary for the efficient discharge of the duties
of the office. (Ord. 3, 11-27-1991)
CHAPTER 2.12
FINANCE DIRECTOR
SECTION:
2.12.010: Office Created
2.12.020: Appointment
2.12.030: Powers And Duties
2.12.040: Independent Audit
2.12.010: OFFICE CREATED:
The office of the finance director is created and established. The finance
director shall be the chief fiscal officer of the town. (Ord. 131, 8-1-2002)
2.12.020: APPOINTMENT:
The finance director shall be appointed by the town manager, and he shall serve
at and during the pleasure of the town manager. The finance director shall be
qualified by sufficient technical accounting training, skill and experience to
be proficient in the office and shall show evidence of executive ability. (Ord.
131, 8-1-2002)
2.12.030: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The duties of the finance director shall be as follows:
   A.   To serve as the chief fiscal officer of the town;
   B.   To assist and advise the administration and the town manager in all
matters pertaining to town finances;
   C.   To perform all financial and accounting duties imposed upon the town
clerk by California Government Code sections 40802 through 40805;
   D.   To develop and maintain, in accordance with the state laws and the town
ordinances and the best accepted procedures, adequate financial records,
reports and budgetary control of all receipts, disbursements and reserves of
the town;
   E.   To supervise the keeping of current inventories of all property of the
town departments, offices and agencies;
   F.   To prescribe and develop accounting forms, reports and procedures in
conjunction with administrative needs and requests, and as required by law;
   G.   To audit all demands in accordance with sections
3.16.020 through
3.16.050 and
3.16.080 of this code;
   H.   To annually prepare for budget purposes an estimate of revenues for the
town manager, and assist the town manager in compiling the annual budget in
accordance with the prescribed chart of accounts and accepted procedures;
   I.   To assist the town council and the town manager in formulating a long
range financial plan and program;
   J.   To perform such purchasing duties as delegated to the finance director
by the town manager; and
   K.   To perform such other duties related to administration for the
municipal government and business operations as may be delegated to the finance
director by the town manager. (Ord. 131, 8-1-2002)
2.12.040: INDEPENDENT AUDIT:
The town council shall annually require an independent audit of the accounts
and records of the town treasurer and department of finance. This auditor shall
be selected by town council and shall be qualified as a certified public
accountant. (Ord. 131, 8-1-2002)
CHAPTER 2.15
TOWN TREASURER
SECTION:
2.15.010: Office Created; Term
2.15.020: Compensation
2.15.030: Functions
2.15.010: OFFICE CREATED; TERM:
The office of the Town Treasurer is created and established. The Town Treasurer
shall hold such office at the pleasure of the Town Council. (Ord. 3, 11-27-
1991)
2.15.020: COMPENSATION:
The Town Treasurer shall receive such compensation and expense allowance as the
Town Council shall from time to time determine, and such compensation shall be
a proper charge against such funds as the Town Council shall designate. (Ord.
3, 11-27-1991)
2.15.030: FUNCTIONS:
The Town Treasurer shall perform such duties as are prescribed by California
Government Code sections 41000 through 41007 and by any other provisions of the
law applicable to deposit and investment and safekeeping of public funds of the
Town. (Ord. 3, 11-27-1991)
CHAPTER 2.16
TOWN ATTORNEY
SECTION:
2.16.010: Office Created
2.16.020: Compensation
2.16.030: Functions
2.16.010: OFFICE CREATED:
   A.   Office Established: The office of the Town Attorney is hereby
established. It shall consist of the Town Attorney and such assistants as may
be authorized by the Town Council. The Town Attorney shall administer the
office and be responsible for the successful performance of its functions. The
Town Attorney shall serve under the direct supervision and control of the Town
Council as its legal advisor. The Town Council may enter into a contract with a
private law firm to perform the services of Town Attorney and, in that
connection, may designate a Town Attorney and such assistant Town Attorneys as
are deemed necessary, and references in this Code to Town Attorney or the
office of Town Attorney will include any applicable law firm and performance of
said functions by any of its members or employed attorneys.
   B.   Employees: The Town Attorney may retain or employ other attorneys,
assistants or special counsel as may be needed to take charge of any litigation
or legal matters or assist the Town Attorney therein; provided, however, that
such employment or retainer shall be reported to the Town Council at the
regular meeting thereof next following the employment and retainer. (Ord. 3,
11-27-1991)
2.16.020: COMPENSATION:
The Town Attorney shall receive such compensation and expense allowance as the
Town Council shall from time to time determine or contract for, and such
compensation shall be a proper charge against such funds of the Town as the
Town Council shall designate. (Ord. 3, 11-27-1991)
2.16.030: FUNCTIONS:
The functions of the office of the Town Attorney shall be to:
   A.   Advise the Town Council and all Town officers in all matters of law
pertaining to their offices;
   B.   Furnish legal service at all meetings of the Town Council, except when
excused or disabled, and give advice or opinions on the legality of all matters
under consideration by the Town Council or by any of the boards and commissions
or officers of the Town;
   C.   Prepare and/or approve all ordinances, resolutions, agreements,
contracts and other legal instruments as shall be required for the proper
conduct of the business of the Town and approve the form of all contracts and
agreements and bonds given to the Town;
   D.   Prosecute on behalf of the people cases for violation of Town
ordinances when not otherwise prosecuted by the District Attorney of San
Bernardino County; and
   E.   Perform such other legal duties as may be required by the Town Council
or as may be necessary to complete the performance of the foregoing functions.
(Ord. 3, 11-27-1991)
CHAPTER 2.40
EMERGENCY ORGANIZATION
SECTION:
2.40.010: General Purpose
2.40.020: Definitions
2.40.030: Disaster Council Membership
2.40.040: Disaster Council Powers And Duties
2.40.050: Director And Assistant Director Of Emergency Services
2.40.060: Powers And Duties Of The Director And Assistant Director Of Emergency
Services
2.40.070: Emergency Organization
2.40.080: Emergency Plan
2.40.090: Orders By Members Of The Emergency Organization
2.40.100: Line Of Succession For Council Members
2.40.110: Emergency Operating Centers
2.40.120: Prohibited Acts During Emergencies
2.40.130: Proclamation Of Emergency
2.40.140: Penalty For Violation
2.40.010: GENERAL PURPOSE:
The purposes of this chapter are to provide for the preparation and carrying
out of plans for the protection of persons and property within the town in the
event of an emergency or disaster, the direction of the emergency organization;
and the coordination of the emergency functions of the town with the county and
with all other public agencies, corporations, organizations and affected
private persons. (Ord. 193, 6-26-2008)
2.40.020: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
EMERGENCY: The actual or threatened existence of conditions of disaster or of
extreme peril to the safety of persons and property within this town caused by
such conditions as air pollution, fire, flood, storm, epidemic, riot or
earthquake or other conditions, including conditions resulting from war or
imminent threat of war, but other than conditions resulting from a labor
controversy, which conditions are or are likely to be beyond the control of the
services, personnel, equipment, and facilities for this town, requiring the
combined forces of other political subdivisions to combat.
LOCAL EMERGENCY: The actual or threatened existence of conditions of disaster
or of extreme peril to the safety of persons and property within the
territorial limits of the town or the county of San Bernardino caused by such
conditions as air pollution, fire, flood, storm, epidemic, riot, earthquake, or
other conditions, other than conditions resulting from a labor controversy,
which are or are likely to be beyond the control of the services, personnel,
equipment, and facilities of the town and require the combined forces of other
political subdivisions to combat.
STATE OF EMERGENCY: The duly proclaimed existence of conditions of disaster or
of extreme peril to the safety of persons and property within the state caused
by such conditions such as air pollution, fire, flood, storm, epidemic, riot or
earthquake or other conditions, but other than conditions resulting from a
labor controversy or conditions causing a state of war emergency, which by
reason of their magnitude are or are likely to be beyond the control of the
services, personnel, equipment and facilities of any single town, county, or
city, town and county, and require the combined forces of a mutual aid region
or regions to combat.
STATE OF WAR EMERGENCY: A condition which exists immediately, with or without a
proclamation thereof by the governor, whenever this state or nation is attacked
by an enemy of the United States, or upon receipt by the state of a warning
from the federal government indicating that such an enemy attack is probable or
imminent.
Other terms used herein shall have meanings as used in the California emergency
services act. (Ord. 193, 6-26-2008)
2.40.030: DISASTER COUNCIL MEMBERSHIP:
The town of Yucca Valley disaster council is hereby created and shall consist
of the following:
   A.   The mayor, who shall be chair;
   B.   The director of emergency services ("director"), who shall be the town
manager and vice chair;
   C.   The assistant director of emergency services ("assistant director");
   D.   Such chiefs of emergency services as are provided for in the current
emergency plan of this town, adopted pursuant to this chapter.
   E.   Such representatives of civic, business, labor, veterans, professional
or other organizations having an official emergency responsibility, as may be
appointed by the director with the advice and consent of the town council.
(Ord. 193, 6-26-2008)
2.40.040: DISASTER COUNCIL POWERS AND DUTIES:
It shall be the duty of the town of Yucca Valley disaster council, and it is
hereby empowered, to develop and recommend for adoption by the town council,
emergency and mutual aid plans and agreements and such ordinances and
resolutions and rules and regulations as are necessary to implement such plans
and agreements. The disaster council shall meet upon call of the chair or, in
the chair's absence from the town or inability to call such meeting, upon call
of the vice chair. (Ord. 193, 6-26-2008)
2.40.050: DIRECTOR AND ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF EMERGENCY SERVICES:
   A.   There is hereby created the office of director of emergency services.
The town manager shall be the director of emergency services.
   B.   There is hereby created the office of assistant director of emergency
services, who shall be appointed by the director. (Ord. 193, 6-26-2008)
2.40.060: POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE DIRECTOR AND ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF EMERGENCY
SERVICES:
   A.   The director is hereby empowered to:
      1.   Request the town council to proclaim the existence or threatened
existence of a "local emergency" if the town council is in session, or to issue
such proclamation if the council is not in session. Whenever a local emergency
is proclaimed by the director, the town council shall take action to ratify the
proclamation within seven (7) days thereafter or the proclamation shall have no
further force of effect.
      2.   Request the governor to proclaim a state of emergency when, in the
opinion of the director, the locally available resources are inadequate to cope
with the emergency.
      3.   Control and direct the effort of the emergency organization of this
town for the accomplishment of the purposes of this chapter.
      4.   Direct cooperation between and coordination of services and staff of
the emergency organization of this town; and resolve questions of authority and
responsibility that may arise between them.
      5.   Represent this town in all dealings with public or private agencies
on matters pertaining to emergencies as defined herein.
      6.   During the existence of a state of war emergency or the proclaimed
existence of a state of emergency or a local emergency affecting the town:
         a.   Use all town resources for the preservation of life and property
and to reduce the effects of the disaster;
         b.   Resolve questions of authority and responsibility that may arise
in disaster operations;
         c.   To make and issue rules and regulations on matters reasonably
related to the protection of life and property as affected by such emergency;
provided, however, such rules and regulations must be confirmed at the earliest
practicable time by the town council;
         d.   Obtain vital supplies, equipment and other resources found
lacking and needed for the preservation of life and property by either binding
the town for the fair value thereof or by commandeering the same;
         e.   Require performance of emergency services by any town officer or
employee and, in the event of the proclamation of a state of emergency in San
Bernardino County, or the existence of a state of war emergency, to command the
aid of as many citizens of the community as the director deems necessary in the
execution of the director's duties. Such persons shall be entitled to all
privileges, benefits, and immunities as are provided by state and local laws
for registered disaster service workers;
   B.   In addition to the powers granted herein, the director shall have such
powers incidental to the performance of the director's duties as shall be
necessary to allow the emergency plan to be effectively carried out, it being
the intent of this chapter that the enumerated powers herein are not
limitations upon the director's powers.
   C.   The director of emergency services shall designate the order of
succession to that office, to take effect in the event the director is
unavailable to attend meetings and otherwise perform his or her duties during
an emergency. Such order of succession shall be approved by the town council.
   D.   The assistant director shall, under the supervision of the director and
with assistance of the chiefs of emergency services, develop emergency plans
and manage the emergency programs of the town, and have such other powers and
duties as may be assigned by the director. (Ord. 193, 6-26-2008)
2.40.070: EMERGENCY ORGANIZATION:
All officers and employees of this town, together with those volunteer forces
enrolled to aid them during an emergency, and all groups, organizations, and
persons who may by agreement or operation of law, including persons impressed
into service under provisions of subsection
2.40.060A6e of this chapter, be charged with duties incident to the protection
of life and property in this town during such emergency, shall constitute the
emergency organization of the town of Yucca Valley. (Ord. 193, 6-26-2008)
2.40.080: EMERGENCY PLAN:
The disaster council shall be responsible for the development of the town of
Yucca Valley ("emergency plan"), which shall provide for the effective
mobilization of all the resources of the town, both public and private, to meet
any condition constituting a local emergency, state of emergency, or state of
war emergency; and shall provide for the organization, powers and duties,
services, and staff of the emergency organization. Such plan shall take effect
upon adoption by resolution of the town council. (Ord. 193, 6-26-2008)
2.40.090: ORDERS BY MEMBERS OF THE EMERGENCY ORGANIZATION:
During the existence of a state of war emergency or of a proclaimed state of
emergency or local emergency affecting the town, each member of the town
disaster council shall have authority to require that all persons shall follow
reasonable order given by that member within the scope of that member's
functions in order to execute the emergency plan of the town, and the wilful
failure of any person to follow such reasonable order(s) is unlawful and a
misdemeanor. (Ord. 193, 6-26-2008)
2.40.100: LINE OF SUCCESSION FOR COUNCIL MEMBERS:
The line of succession for the position of mayor during a state of war
emergency, state of emergency, local emergency or other condition of disaster,
unless otherwise ordered by the town council, shall be mayor pro tempore
followed by the remaining town council members in order of their seniority
excluding standby successors who may have been appointed pursuant to California
Government Code section 8638, or if equal in seniority of service then in order
of most votes cast in most recent election. (Ord. 193, 6-26-2008)
2.40.110: EMERGENCY OPERATING CENTERS:
Unless exigencies render the same impossible or unduly hazardous to safety, two
(2) emergency operating centers shall normally be maintained within the town.
(Ord. 193, 6-26-2008)
2.40.120: PROHIBITED ACTS DURING EMERGENCIES:
It is unlawful and a violation of this code, for any person during a state of
war emergency, state of emergency, local emergency or other condition of
disaster:
   A.   To wilfully obstruct, hinder or delay any member of the disaster
council in the enforcing of any law or lawful rule, regulation or order issued
pursuant to this chapter, or in the performance of any duty imposed upon such
disaster council member by virtue of this chapter; or
   B.   To do any act forbidden by any lawful rule, regulation or order issued
pursuant to this chapter if such is of such a nature as to give, or be likely
to give, assistance to the enemy, or to imperil life or property, or to
prevent, hinder or delay the defense or protection of persons or property; or
   C.   To wear, carry or display, without authority, any means of
identification specified by the emergency services or disaster or civil defense
agencies of the federal or state governments. (Ord. 193, 6-26-2008)
2.40.130: PROCLAMATION OF EMERGENCY:
After the issuance of a proclamation of local emergency, the director shall
have the power to make, issue and enforce rules and regulations on matters
reasonably related to the protection of life and property as affected by said
emergency; provided, however, such rules and regulations shall be confirmed as
soon as practicable by the town council. In addition to those powers and duties
set forth in section
2.40.060 of this chapter the disaster director is granted, but shall not be
limited to, the following powers:
   A.   Curfew: The director may order a general curfew applicable to the
entire town or such geographical areas thereof as he deems necessary to protect
the public health, safety, welfare and morals.
As used herein "curfew" means a prohibition against any person or persons
walking, running, loitering, standing, riding or motoring upon any alley,
street, highway, public property or private property except as authorized by
the owner, lessee or person in charge of such private property. Persons
officially delegated to duty with reference to such civil emergency and
representatives of news media, physicians, nurses, ambulance operators
performing medical services, utility personnel maintaining essential public
services, firefighters and law enforcement officers and other such personnel as
well as those specifically authorized by duly delegated authority are exempted
from the foregoing curfew requirements;
   B.   Business Closings: The director may order the closing of any business
establishments anywhere within the town, such businesses to include, but not be
limited to, those selling alcoholic beverages, gasoline or firearms;
   C.   Alcoholic Beverages: The director may order that no person shall
consume any alcoholic beverages in a public street or place which is publicly
owned or in any other public or private area on which consumption of such
alcoholic beverages shall be found by the director, on just cause, to
precipitate a clear and present danger to the well being of the community
during the emergency;
   D.   Weapons: The director may order that no persons shall carry or possess
any gun, bomb, firebomb, knife, rock or other such weapon item, the use of
which would tend to inflict great bodily harm on persons or damage to property;
   E.   Street Closures: The director may designate any public street,
thoroughfare or vehicular parking area closed to motor vehicles and pedestrian
traffic during the course of such an emergency.
The foregoing specific authorizations, and other such authorizations as may be
deemed necessary during such emergency, are declared to be imminently necessary
for the protection of life and property during an emergency period. (Ord. 193,
6-26-2008)
2.40.140: PENALTY FOR VIOLATION:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter, or executive order issued
pursuant thereto, is guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 193, 6-26-2008)
CHAPTER 2.44
POLICE OFFICER TRAINING STANDARDS
SECTION:
2.44.010: Declaration Of Intent
2.44.020: Adherence To State Standards
2.44.010: DECLARATION OF INTENT:
The Town declares that it desires to qualify to receive aid from the State
under the provisions of California Penal Code chapter 1, title 4, part 4. (Ord.
3, 11-27-1991)
2.44.020: ADHERENCE TO STATE STANDARDS:
Pursuant to California Penal Code section 13522 of chapter 1 referred to above,
the Town, while receiving aid from the State pursuant to said chapter 1, will
adhere to the standards for recruitment and training established by the
California Commission of Peace Officer Standards and Training. (Ord. 3, 11-27-
1991)
CHAPTER 2.50
ADMINISTRATIVE MANDAMUS; STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS
SECTION:
2.50.010: Administrative Decisions
2.50.020: Decisions Affected
2.50.010: ADMINISTRATIVE DECISIONS:
The provisions of California Code of Civil Procedure section 1094.6 are hereby
adopted by the Town Council, and said provisions are hereby made applicable in
the Town as further specified in Section
 2.50.020 of this Chapter. (Ord. 3, 11-27-1991)
2.50.020: DECISIONS AFFECTED:
The provisions of this Chapter shall be applicable to "decisions", as defined
by California Code of Civil Procedure section 1094.6, that are final on and
after November 28, 1988. (Ord. 3, 11-27-1991)
CHAPTER 2.55
TOWN HOLIDAYS
SECTION:
2.55.010: Holidays Observed By Town
2.55.010: HOLIDAYS OBSERVED BY TOWN:
Excluding those offices which must remain open for the continuation of
essential public services such as police and fire protection, the public
offices of the Town shall be closed on Saturdays and Sundays, and on those
holidays set forth by resolution of the Town Council. Notwithstanding the
foregoing provisions of this Section, the Town Manager shall be authorized, by
administrative regulation or otherwise, to direct that all or a portion of the
public offices of the Town shall remain open for business, on a full or reduced
staff basis, on any of the days or holidays prescribed by the Town Council,
when the Town Manager determines it to be necessary in the public interest to
do so. (Ord. 31, 1-7-1993)
TITLE 3
REVENUE AND FINANCE
CHAPTER 3.10
INVESTMENT AND COLLECTION OF TOWN MONIES
SECTION:
3.10.010: Investment Of Town Monies
3.10.020: Handling Of Securities
3.10.030: Town Bonds
3.10.040: Reports
3.10.050: Trust Fund Administration
3.10.060: Collection Of Debts
3.10.010: INVESTMENT OF TOWN MONIES:
   A.   Pursuant to, and in accordance with, and to the extent allowed by
California Government Code sections 53607 and 53608, the authority to invest
and reinvest monies of the town, to sell or exchange securities, and to deposit
them and provide for their safekeeping, is delegated to the town treasurer.
   B.   Pursuant to the delegation of authority in subsection A of this
section, the town treasurer is authorized to purchase, at their original sale
or after they have been issued, securities which are permissible investments
under any provision of state law relating to the investing of general town
funds, including, but not limited to, California Government Code sections
53601, 53635 and 53635.5, as said sections now read or may hereafter be
amended, from monies in his custody which are not required for the immediate
necessities of the town and as he may deem wise and expedient, and to sell or
exchange for other eligible securities and reinvest the proceeds of the
securities so purchased. (Ord. 3, 11-27-1991)
3.10.020: HANDLING OF SECURITIES:
   A.   Sale Of Securities: From time to time the town treasurer shall sell the
securities in which town monies have been invested pursuant to this chapter, so
that the proceeds may, as appropriate, be applied to the purchase for which the
original purchase money may have been designated or placed in the town
treasury.
   B.   Deposit Of Securities: Pursuant to the delegation of authority in
subsection
3.10.010A of this chapter, the town treasurer is authorized to deposit for
safekeeping, the securities in which town monies have been invested pursuant to
this chapter, in any institution or depository authorized by the terms of any
state law, including, but not limited to, California Government Code section
53608. In accordance with said section, the town treasurer shall take from such
institution or depository a receipt for the securities so deposited and shall
not be responsible for such securities delivered to and receipted for by such
institution or depository until they are withdrawn therefrom by the town
treasurer. (Ord. 3, 11-27-1991)
3.10.030: TOWN BONDS:
Bonds issued by the town and purchased pursuant to this chapter may be canceled
either in satisfaction of sinking fund obligations or otherwise if proper and
appropriate; provided, however, that said bonds may be held uncanceled and
while so held may be resold. (Ord. 3, 11-27-1991)
3.10.040: REPORTS:
The town treasurer shall make a quarterly report to the town council of all
investments made pursuant to the authority delegated in this chapter; provided,
however, that the town treasurer shall make a special report to the town
council each time the interest rate paid on investments changes downward by one
percent (1%) or more. (Ord. 132, 8-22-2002)
3.10.050: TRUST FUND ADMINISTRATION:
Any departmental trust fund established by the town council pursuant to
California Government Code section 36523 shall be administered by the town
treasurer in accordance with California Government Code sections 36523 and
36524 and any other applicable provisions of law. (Ord. 3, 11-27-1991)
3.10.060: COLLECTION OF DEBTS:
The amount of any fee, assessment, service charge, utility charge, license or
tax of any nature whatsoever imposed by this code or by any other resolution,
ordinance, rule, regulation or in any other fashion by the town shall be deemed
a civil debt owing to the town. An action may be commenced in the name of the
town in any court of competent jurisdiction for the collection of the amount of
any such delinquent or unpaid fee, assessment, service charge, utility charge,
license, or tax, together with any penalties applicable thereto as prescribed
by this code or any other enactment. Such action may also be commenced for the
collection of any other amount or debt determined to be due the town on account
of any contractual obligation or on account of any tortuous act or conduct by
any person. The remedy prescribed by this section shall be cumulative, and the
use of an action to collect such an amount as a debt by civil action shall not
bar the use of any other remedy provided by this code or by law for the purpose
of enforcing the provisions thereof. (Ord. 3, 11-27-1991)
CHAPTER 3.12
PURCHASES
SECTION:
3.12.010: Adoption Of Purchasing System
3.12.020: Purchase Orders
3.12.030: Encumbrance Of Funds
3.12.040: Inspection And Testing
3.12.050: Bidding Requirements And Procedures
3.12.060: Exceptions To Competitive Bidding Requirements
3.12.070: Selection Of Contract Services
3.12.080: Surplus Supplies And Equipment
3.12.090: Alternative Award Procedures
3.12.100: Informal Bidding Regulations
3.12.110: Federal Procurement Standards Under Uniform Guidance
3.12.010: ADOPTION OF PURCHASING SYSTEM:
In order to establish efficient procedures for the purchase of supplies and
equipment at the lowest possible cost commensurate with quality needed, to
exercise positive financial control over purchases, to clearly define authority
for the purchasing function and to assure the quality of purchases, a
purchasing system is hereby adopted. (Ord. 277, 4-3-2018)
3.12.020: PURCHASE ORDERS:
Purchases of supplies and equipment shall be made only by purchase orders.
Except as otherwise provided herein, no purchase order shall be issued unless
the prior approval of the Department Director/Manager or his designated
representative has been obtained. (Ord. 277, 4-3-2018)
3.12.030: ENCUMBRANCE OF FUNDS:
Except in cases of emergency, the Department Director/Manager shall not issue
any purchase order for supplies or equipment unless there exists an
unencumbered appropriation in the fund account against which said purchase is
to be charged. (Ord. 277, 4-3-2018)
3.12.040: INSPECTION AND TESTING:
The Department Director/Manager shall, in his discretion, inspect supplies and
equipment delivered to determine their conformance with the specifications set
forth in the order. The Department Director/Manager or designee shall have
authority to require chemical and physical tests of samples submitted with bids
and samples of deliveries which are necessary to determine their quality and
conformance with specifications. (Ord. 277, 4-3-2018)
3.12.050: BIDDING REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURES:
Purchases of supplies and equipment shall be by bid procedures pursuant to this
section. Bidding may be dispensed with only under conditions stated in section
3.12.060 of this chapter.
   A.   Formal Sealed Bid Procedures: Except as otherwise provided herein,
public projects which exceed five thousand dollars ($5,000.00), as defined in
California Public Contracts Code section 20162, and purchases of supplies and
equipment of an estimated value at or greater than twenty five thousand dollars
($25,000.00), shall be awarded to the lowest responsible bidder pursuant to the
formal bid procedure as hereinafter prescribed.
   B.   Notice Inviting Formal Bids: Notices inviting formal bids shall include
a general description of the article or service desired, shall state where bid
documents and specifications may be secured, and the time and place for opening
bids.
   C.   Published Notice For Formal Bids: Notices inviting formal bids shall be
published at least ten (10) days prior to the date of opening of the bids.
Notices shall be published at least once for nonpublic projects and at least
twice, not less than five (5) days apart, for public projects, in a newspaper
of general circulation in the Town.
   D.   Notice: The Department Director/Manager or designee shall advertise the
pending formal purchases by publishing on the Town's website.
   E.   Bidder's Security: When a public project is involved, and in other
cases when deemed necessary by the Department Director/Manager, formal bids
shall be accompanied by security, either cash, cashier's check, certified check
or surety bond, in a sum equal to ten percent (10%) of the total aggregate of
the bid, and shall be designated in the notice inviting bids. Bidders shall be
entitled to return of bid security; provided, however, that a successful bidder
shall forfeit his bid security upon his refusal or failure to execute the
contract within ten (10) days after the notice of award of contract has been
mailed, unless the Town is solely responsible for the delay in executing the
contract. The Town Council may, on refusal or failure of the successful bidder
to execute the contract, award it to the next lowest responsible bidder who is
willing to execute the contract, or may reject all bids and re-advertise.
   F.   Formal Bond Requirements: A faithful performance bond and labor and
material bond shall be required for all public projects, unless waived by the
Town Council, in an amount reasonably necessary to protect the best interests
of the Town. In addition, the Town Council shall have authority to require a
faithful performance bond or other bonds before entering into a contract other
than a public project contract. If bonds are required, the form and amount
thereof shall be designated in the notice inviting bids.
   G.   Formal Bid Opening Procedure: Sealed bids shall be submitted to the
Town Clerk, or designee and shall be identified as "bids" on the envelope. The
Town Clerk, or designee, shall publicly open all bids at the time and place
stated in the public notices. A tabulation of all bids received shall be
available for public inspection in the Town Clerk's Office during regular
business hours for a period of not less than thirty (30) calendar days after
the bid opening.
   H.   Rejection Of Formal Bids: In its discretion, the Town Council may
reject any and all bids presented and may cause re- advertising for bids
pursuant to the procedure hereinabove prescribed. However, when all bids exceed
the authorized budgeted amount, the Town Manager may authorize rejection of all
bids and authorize rebidding based upon the original specifications or as they
may be modified, in accordance with procedures prescribed herein.
   I.   Award Of Formal Bid Contracts: Except as otherwise provided herein,
formal bid contracts shall be awarded by the Town Council to the lowest
responsible bidder. The determination of "lowest responsible bidder" shall be
at the discretion of the Town Council pursuant to findings and recommendations
presented by the Department Director/Manager at the time of award of contract.
   J.   Tie Formal Bids: If two (2) or more formal bids received are for the
same total amount or unit price, quality and service being equal, and if the
public interest will not permit the delay of re-advertising for bids, the Town
Council may in its discretion accept the one it chooses or accept the lowest
bid made by and after negotiation with the tie bidders at the time of the bid
opening or award of contract.
   K.   No Formal Bids Received: When no formal bids or no responsive bids are
received, the Department Director/Manager is authorized to negotiate for
written proposals, and his recommendation shall be presented to the Town
Manager and award, if any, shall be made in accordance with applicable
provisions prescribed herein.
   L.   Open Market Or Informal Bid Procedure:
      1.   Allowed: Purchases of supplies and equipment of an estimated value
in the amount less than twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) may be made
by the Department Director/Manager in the open market pursuant to the procedure
prescribed in this subsection, and without observing the procedure prescribed
in subsection A of this section; provided, however, all bidding may be
dispensed with for purchases of supplies and equipment having a total estimated
value of less than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00).
      2.   Minimum Number Of Informal Bids: Open market purchases shall,
wherever possible, be based on at least three (3) informal bids, and shall be
awarded to the bidder offering the most advantageous bid to the Town after
consideration of price, quality, durability, servicing, delivery time,
standardization and other factors.
      3.   Notice Inviting Informal Bids: The Department Director/Manager, or
designee shall solicit informal bids by written requests to prospective
vendors, or by telephone, or by public notice posted on a public bulletin board
at the Town offices.
      4.   Record Of Informal Bids: The Department Director/Manager shall keep
a written record of all open market purchases and informal bids for a period of
one year. This record, while so kept, shall be open to public inspection. (Ord.
277, 4-3-2018)
3.12.060: EXCEPTIONS TO COMPETITIVE BIDDING REQUIREMENTS:
Notwithstanding any provision of this chapter to the contrary, the competitive
bidding procedures and requirements may be dispensed with in any of the
following instances:
   A.   When the estimated amount involved is less than twenty five thousand
dollars ($25,000.00);
   B.   When the commodity can be obtained from only one vendor;
   C.   The Town Manager may authorize the purchase of materials, supplies,
equipment and services where an emergency is deemed to exist and it is
determined that service involving the public health, safety or welfare would be
interrupted if the normal procedure were followed. All emergency purchases,
which would otherwise require formal bidding procedures, made pursuant to this
section shall be submitted to the Town Council for ratification at the next
regular Council meeting after the purchase is authorized;
   D.   The Town Council may authorize the execution of contracts for personal
services, for professional and consultant services, and for other nonpublic
projects and for contractual services without observing the bidding procedures
provided herein where the amount of the contract exceeds the value set forth
therein;
   E.   The Town Manager is authorized to enter into contracts for personal
services, for professional and consulting services and for other contractual
services without observing the bidding procedure provided herein where the
amount of the contract does not exceed the amount of fifty thousand dollars
($50,000.00); provided there exists an unencumbered appropriation in the fund
account against which said expense is to be charged;
   F.   Any agreement involving acquisition of supplies, equipment or service
entered into with another governmental entity;
   G.   When the Town Council finds that adherence to the procedures in this
chapter would be inefficient, impractical and unnecessary;
   H.   The Town Council may authorize the execution of a lease or leases for
office space for the Town government without observing the bidding procedures
provided herein irrespective of the term of the lease or leases or the amount
of rent and other charges to be paid by the Town under the lease or leases.
   I.   When a contract is available through a Leveraged Procurement Agreement
with a government agency or a Cooperative Purchasing Agency in which the
contract has been competitively solicited. (Ord. 277, 4-3-2018)
3.12.070: SELECTION OF CONTRACT SERVICES:
The Town Council shall, by resolution, prescribe procedures, rules and
regulations governing the solicitation, selection and award of proposals or
bids for the furnishing of personal services or professional or consulting
services or for other contractual services, the contracts for which may be
awarded without observing the bidding procedures provided for in this chapter.
Such procedures, rules and regulations shall have as one purpose the obtaining
of contractual services of the highest quality together with cost
effectiveness. (Ord. 277, 4-3-2018)
3.12.080: SURPLUS SUPPLIES AND EQUIPMENT:
   A.   Reports Of Surplus: All using departments shall submit to the Town
Council, reports showing all supplies and equipment which are no longer used or
which have become obsolete and worn out.
   B.   Trade-Ins: The Department Director/Manager shall have authority to
exchange for or trade-in on new supplies and equipment all supplies and
equipment which cannot be used by any department or which have become
unsuitable for Town use.
   C.   Sale: The Department Director/Manager shall also have authority,
subject to approval of the Town Manager, to dispose of surplus supplies or
equipment by auction or by sale or otherwise after receiving bids or proposals
which, in his/her judgment, provide the maximum return to the Town. (Ord. 277,
4-3-2018)
3.12.090: ALTERNATIVE AWARD PROCEDURES:
Notwithstanding subsection
3.12.050A of this chapter, from and after such time as the Town Council has
adopted a resolution electing to make the Town subject to the uniform
construction cost accounting procedures set forth in California Public Contract
Code article 2 (commencing with section 22010) of chapter 2 of part 3 of
division 2, and has notified the State Controller of such election, the Town
Council may utilize the alternative procedures for the award of public project
bids set forth in California Public Contract Code article 3 (commencing with
section 22030) of chapter 2 of part 3 of division 2. When utilizing the
alternative procedures authorized by this section for public projects as to
which formal bidding procedures are not required, the provisions of section
3.12.100 of this chapter shall be complied with. (Ord. 277, 4-3-2018)
3.12.100: INFORMAL BIDDING REGULATIONS:
Pursuant to California Public Contract Code section 22032, when utilizing the
alternative procedures authorized by section
 3.12.090 of this chapter, the following provision shall apply to public
projects for which formal bidding procedures are not required:
   A.   Public projects of forty five thousand dollars ($45,000.00) or less may
be performed by employees of the Town by force account, by negotiated contract
or by purchase order.
   B.   Public projects of one hundred seventy five thousand dollars
($175,000.00) or less may be let to contract by the informal bidding procedures
set forth in subsection C of this section. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if
all bids received are in excess of one hundred seventy five thousand dollars
($175,000.00), the Town Council may, by passage of a resolution by a four-
fifths (4/5) affirmative vote, award the contract at one hundred eighty seven
thousand five hundred dollars ($187,500.00) or less to the lowest responsible
bidder if the Town Council determines that the Town's original cost estimate
for the project was reasonable pursuant to California Public Contract Code
section 22034(d).
   C.   The following provisions shall be complied with in selecting
contractors to perform public projects pursuant to this section:
      1.   The Department Director/Manager shall maintain a list of qualified
contractors, identified according to categories of work. The list shall be
developed and maintained in accordance with criteria established for such lists
by the California Uniform Construction Cost Accounting Commission.
      2.   Each contractor on the list for the category or work being bid, and/
or all construction trade journals specified by the above commission to receive
mailed notice of all informal and formal construction contracts being bid for
work in San Bernardino County, as determined by the Department Director/
Manager, shall be mailed a notice inviting informal bids unless the product or
service is proprietary.
      3.   All mailings of notices to contractors and construction trade
journals pursuant to subsection C2 of this section shall be completed not less
than ten (10) calendar days before bids would be due pursuant to such notice.
      4.   Each notice inviting informal bids shall describe the project in
general terms, state how to obtain more detailed information about the project,
and specify the time and place for submission of bids. (Ord. 277, 4-3-2018)
3.12.110: FEDERAL PROCUREMENT STANDARDS UNDER UNIFORM GUIDANCE:
Pursuant to 2 CFR 200.317 through 200.326, all non-Federal entities must use
its own documented procurement procedures which reflect applicable State and
local laws and regulations provided that the procurements conform to applicable
Federal law and the standards identified in this chapter. Procurement
procedures are documented separately within the Accounting Policies and
Procedures Manual. (Ord. 277, 4-3-2018)
CHAPTER 3.16
DEMANDS AND CLAIMS
SECTION:
3.16.010: Claims For Money Or Damages
3.16.020: Forms
3.16.030: Auditing Prerequisite To Payment
3.16.040: Approval Of Claims
3.16.050: Prepayment Of Demands
3.16.060: Register Of Demands
3.16.070: Town Council Ratification
3.16.080: Record Of Demands
3.16.010: CLAIMS FOR MONEY OR DAMAGES:
As a prerequisite to bringing suit thereon against the town or any officer,
department, commission or board of the town, any claim for money or damages
(including claims which would otherwise be excepted by California Government
Code section 905) which is not governed by any other statutes or regulations
expressly relating thereto, shall be presented and acted upon in accordance
with California Government Code title 1, division 3.6, part 3, chapter 1
(commencing with section 900) and chapter 2 (commencing with section 910). This
section shall relate only to the bringing of suit upon any claim, and shall not
be deemed to apply to the authority of the finance director, the town council
and other officers to process and pay, in the ordinary course of business, the
just obligations of the town, such as routine salaries and wages, principal and
interest on bonds, payments of purchases, and other like expenditures for which
there is an express budget appropriation, and in connection with which there is
no dispute as to the obligation and amount being payable. Pursuant to
California Government Code section 935.4, the town manager, or his designee as
provided in writing, may allow, compromise, settle or deny a claim against the
town in an amount not to exceed fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00). Upon
written order, the treasurer shall issue a warrant to settle or pay a claim in
that amount, but not to exceed that amount.
(Ord. 181, 2-9-2006; amd. Ord. 315, 5-7-2024)
3.16.020: FORMS:
Claims against the town shall be paid on demands on the treasury as herein
provided on forms to be prescribed by the finance director. (Ord. 132, 8-22-
2002)
3.16.030: AUDITING PREREQUISITE TO PAYMENT:
No payment shall be made from the town treasury or out of the funds of the town
unless the demand which is to be paid is duly audited as prescribed herein or
by other provisions of law. (Ord. 3, 11-27-1991)
3.16.040: APPROVAL OF CLAIMS:
   A.   Departmental Approval: Except for tort claims, every claim and demand
received against the town shall be first presented to and approved in writing
by the receiving department or office, which shall certify to the actual
delivery or rendition of the supplies, materials, property or service for which
payment is claimed; that the quality and prices correspond with the original
specifications and contracts, if any, upon which the claim is based; that the
demand in all other respects is proper and valid, and which shall further
indicate the budgetary account to which said demand is to be charged. (Ord. 3,
11-27-1991; amd. 2000 Code)
   B.   Approval By Finance Director: Each demand approved by the receiving
department or office shall be presented to the finance director who shall
satisfy himself whether:
      1.   The claim is legally due and owing by the town;
      2.   There are budgeted or otherwise appropriated funds available to pay
said claim;
      3.   The claim conforms to a valid requisition or order;
      4.   The prices and computations shown on the claim are verified;
      5.   The claim contains the approval of other departments and officials
as required. (Ord. 132, 8-22-2002)
3.16.050: PREPAYMENT OF DEMANDS:
   A.   Prepayment of demands prior to audit by the finance committee and the
town council may be made by the finance director in conformity with the
authority provided by California Government Code section 37208.
   B.   Whenever the finance director determines that a refund is due of fees,
taxes or other receipts collected in error or in advance of being earned, or of
money, the refund of which is otherwise due, pursuant to specific provisions of
this code or of any other ordinance of this town, then any such refund shall be
deemed as conforming to the currently approved budget, and may be prepaid in
the same fashion as other demands encompassed within the terms of subsection A
of this section. (Ord. 132, 8-22-2002)
3.16.060: REGISTER OF DEMANDS:
Following audit of demands, the finance director shall prepare a register of
audited demands showing the claimant's name, amount of demand, warrant number
and date thereof, and transmit said register to the town manager for his review
and presentation to the town council for ratification. (Ord. 132, 8-22-2002)
3.16.070: TOWN COUNCIL RATIFICATION:
The register of demands shall be presented to the town council at the next
regular meeting thereof for ratification. (Ord. 68, 4-18-1996)
3.16.080: RECORD OF DEMANDS:
Before ratification of the register of demands by the town council, the town
manager shall endorse the register of demands to signify there was proper
processing of demands therein before the town council took action. (Ord. 68, 4-
18-1996)
CHAPTER 3.18
SPECIAL GAS TAX STREET IMPROVEMENT FUND
SECTION:
3.18.010: Fund Created
3.18.020: Monies Included
3.18.030: Expenditures
3.18.010: FUND CREATED:
To comply with the provisions of California Streets and Highways Code, chapter
3 of division 3, section 2113 and to avail the Town of its benefits, including,
but not limited to, California Streets and Highway Code sections 2105, 2106 and
2107, there is hereby created in the Town Treasury a special fund known as the
SPECIAL GAS TAX STREET IMPROVEMENT FUND. (Ord. 3, 11-27-1991)
3.18.020: MONIES INCLUDED:
All monies received by the Town from the State of California under the
provisions of the Streets and Highways Code for the acquisition of real
property or interests therein, or for engineering, or for the construction,
maintenance and improvement of streets or highways by the Town shall be paid
into said Fund. (Ord. 3, 11-27-1991)
3.18.030: EXPENDITURES:
All monies in said Fund shall be expended exclusively for the purposes
authorized by and subject to the provisions of the California Streets and
Highways Code. (Ord. 3, 11-27-1991)
CHAPTER 3.20
TRANSFER OF TAX FUNCTIONS
SECTION:
3.20.010: Assessment And Collection Of Town Taxes By County
3.20.010: ASSESSMENT AND COLLECTION OF TOWN TAXES BY COUNTY:
Pursuant to and in compliance with California Government Code section 51501,
the assessment and tax collection duties which otherwise might be performed by
a Town assessor and tax collector are transferred to the Assessor and Tax
Collector of the County of San Bernardino. (Ord. 3, 11-27-1991)
CHAPTER 3.22
REAL PROPERTY DOCUMENTARY TRANSFER TAX
SECTION:
3.22.010: Short Title; Adoption
3.22.020: Imposition Of Tax; Rates
3.22.030: Payment Of Tax
3.22.040: Exemptions; Inapplicability Of Tax
3.22.050: Partnerships
3.22.060: Tax Roll Parcel Number Requirements
3.22.070: Administration
3.22.080: Claims For Refund
3.22.090: Penalty
3.22.010: SHORT TITLE; ADOPTION:
This Chapter shall be known as the REAL PROPERTY TRANSFER TAX ORDINANCE of the
Town. It is adopted pursuant to the authority contained in the Documentary
Transfer Tax Act 1 . (Ord. 3, 11-27-1991)
 
Notes
1 1. California Revenue and Taxation Code part 6.7 (commencing with § 11901).
3.22.020: IMPOSITION OF TAX; RATES:
There is imposed on each deed, instrument or writing by which any lands,
tenements or other realty sold within the Town shall be granted, assigned,
transferred or otherwise conveyed to, or vested in, the purchaser or
purchasers, or any other person or persons, by his or their direction, when the
consideration or value of the interest or property conveyed (exclusive of the
value of any lien or encumbrances remaining thereon at the time of sale)
exceeds one hundred dollars ($100.00), a tax at the rate of twenty seven and
one-half cents ($0.275) for each five hundred dollars ($500.00) or fractional
part thereof. (Ord. 3, 11-27-1991)
3.22.030: PAYMENT OF TAX:
Any tax imposed pursuant to Section
3.22.020 of this Chapter shall be paid by any person who makes, signs or issues
any document or instrument subject to the tax, or for whose use or benefit the
same is made, signed or issued. (Ord. 3, 11-27-1991)
3.22.040: EXEMPTIONS; INAPPLICABILITY OF TAX:
   A.   Government And Governmental Agencies: The United States or any agency
or instrumentality thereof, any state or territory, or political subdivision
thereof, or the District of Columbia, shall not be liable for any tax imposed
pursuant to this Chapter with respect to any deed, instrument or writing to
which it is a party, but the tax may be collected by assessment from any other
party liable therefor.
   B.   Instruments In Writing to Secure Debts: Any tax imposed pursuant to
this Chapter shall not apply to any instrument in writing given to secure a
debt.
   C.   Conveyances To Make Effective Plan Of Reorganization Or Adjustment: Any
tax imposed pursuant to this Chapter shall not apply to the making, delivering
or filing of conveyances to make effective any plan of reorganization or
adjustment:
      1.   Confirmed under the Federal Bankruptcy Act, as amended;
      2.   Approved in an equity receivership proceeding in a court involving a
railroad corporation, as defined in subdivision (m) of section 205 of title 11
of the United States Code, as amended; or
      3.   Approved in an equity receivership proceeding in a court involving a
corporation, as defined in subdivision (3) of section 506 of title 11 of the
United States Code, as amended; or
      4.   Whereby a mere change in identity, form or place or organization is
effected.
Subsections C1 to C4, inclusive, of this Section shall only apply if the
making, delivery or filing of instruments of transfer or conveyances occurs
within five (5) years from the date of such confirmation, approval or change.
   D.   Make Effective Order Of Securities And Exchange Commission: Any tax
imposed pursuant to this Chapter shall not apply to the making or delivery of
conveyances to make effective any order of the Securities and Exchange
Commission, as defined in subdivision (a) of section 1083 of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1954; but only if:
      1.   The order of the Securities and Exchange Commission in obedience to
which such conveyance is made recites that such conveyance is necessary or
appropriate to effectuate the provisions of section 79k of title 15 of the
United States Code, relating to the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935;
      2.   Such order specifies the property which is ordered to be conveyed;
      3.   Such conveyance is made in obedience to such order. (Ord. 3, 11-27-
1991)
3.22.050: PARTNERSHIPS:
   A.   In the case of any realty held by a partnership, no levy shall be
imposed pursuant to this Chapter by reason of any transfer of an interest in a
partnership or otherwise, if:
      1.   Such partnership (or another partnership) is considered a continuing
partnership within the meaning of section 708 of the Internal Revenue Code of
1954; and
      2.   Such continuing partnership continues to hold the realty concerned.
   B.   If there is a termination of any partnership within the meaning of
section 708 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, for purposes of this Chapter,
such partnership shall be treated as having executed an instrument whereby
there was conveyed, for fair market value (exclusive of the value of any lien
of encumbrances remaining thereon), all realty held by such partnership at the
time of such termination.
   C.   Not more than one tax shall be imposed pursuant to this Chapter by
reason of a termination described in subsection B of this Section, and any
transfer pursuant thereto, with respect to the realty held by such partnership
at the time of such termination. (Ord. 3, 11-27-1991)
3.22.060: TAX ROLL PARCEL NUMBER REQUIREMENTS:
Each deed, instrument or writing by which lands, tenements or other realty is
sold, granted, assigned, transferred or otherwise conveyed shall have noted
upon it the tax roll parcel number. The number will be used only for
administrative and procedural purposes and will not be proof of title and in
the event of any conflicts, the stated legal description noted upon the
document shall govern. The validity of such a document shall not be affected by
the fact that such parcel number is erroneous or omitted, and there shall be no
liability attaching to any person for an error in such number or for omission
of such number. The County Recorder shall not accept any deed, instrument or
conveyance for recording unless the tax roll parcel number has been noted upon
it. A parcel which has been created by the division of an existing parcel and
which at the time of recording has no separate parcel number shall have noted
upon it the words "portion of" and the parcel number of the parcel from which
it was created. (Ord. 3, 11-27-1991)
3.22.070: ADMINISTRATION:
The County Recorder shall administer this Chapter in conformity with the
provisions of California Revenue and Taxation Code part 6.7 of division 2 and
the provisions of any County ordinance adopted pursuant thereto. (Ord. 3, 11-
27-1991)
3.22.080: CLAIMS FOR REFUND:
Claims for refund of taxes imposed pursuant to this Chapter shall be governed
by the provisions of California Revenue and Taxation Code chapter 5 (commencing
with section 5096) of part 9 of division 1. (Ord. 3, 11-27-1991)
3.22.090: PENALTY:
Any person who makes, signs, issues or accepts or causes to be made, signed,
issued or accepted and who submits or causes to be submitted for recordation
any deed, instrument or writing subject to the tax imposed by this Chapter and
makes any material misrepresentation of fact for the purpose of avoiding all or
any part of the tax imposed by this Chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
No person shall be liable civilly or criminally for any unintentional error
made in designating the location of the lands, tenements or other realty
described in a document subject to the tax imposed by this Chapter. (Ord. 3,
11-27-1991)
CHAPTER 3.24
TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX
SECTION:
3.24.010: Short Title
3.24.020: Definitions
3.24.030: Tax Imposed
3.24.040: Exemptions
3.24.050: Operator's Duties
3.24.060: Registration
3.24.070: Returns And Remittances
3.24.080: Reporting And Remitting
3.24.090: Cessation Of Business
3.24.100: Delinquency
3.24.110: Fraud
3.24.120: Failure To Collect And Report Tax; Determinations Of Tax
Administrator
3.24.130: Appeals
3.24.140: Records
3.24.150: Refunds
3.24.160: Revocation Of Permit
3.24.170: Closure Of Hotel Without Permit
3.24.180: Recording Certificate; Lien
3.24.190: Priority And Lien Of Tax
3.24.200: Warrant For Collection Of Tax
3.24.210: Seizure And Sale
3.24.220: Successor's Liability
3.24.230: Responsibility For Payment
3.24.240: Withhold Notice
3.24.250: Violations; Misdemeanor
3.24.260: Extension Of Time
3.24.270: Divulging Of Information Forbidden
3.24.280: Agreement With County
3.24.010: SHORT TITLE:
The short title of this chapter shall be the TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX ORDINANCE.
(Ord. 94, 8-20-1998)
3.24.020: DEFINITIONS:
Except where the context otherwise requires, the definitions given in this
section shall govern the construction of this chapter:
HOTEL: Any structure, or any portion of any structure which is occupied or
intended or designed for use or occupancy by transients, including, but not
limited to, dwelling, lodging or sleeping purposes, and includes any hotel,
inn, tourist home or house, motel, studio hotel, bachelor hotel, lodging house,
rooming house, apartment house, time share project or facility, dormitory,
public or private club, mobile home or house trailer at a fixed location or
other similar structure or portion thereof, duplex, triplex, single-family
dwelling units, except any private dwelling house or other individually owned
single- family dwelling house unit rented only occasionally (infrequently) and
incidentally to the normal occupancy by the owner or his family, provided that
the burden of establishing that the housing or facility is a "hotel", as
defined herein, shall be upon the owner or operator thereof who shall file with
the finance director such information as the finance director may require, to
establish and maintain such status.
OCCUPANCY: The use or possession, or the right or entitlement to the use or
possession, of any hotel, room, rooms or any portion thereof offered for rent
to be used or occupied for dwelling, lodging or sleeping purposes, regardless
of the purpose for which such rooms are rented or provided.
OPERATOR: The person who is proprietor of the hotel, whether in the capacity of
owner, lessee, sublessee, mortgagee in possession, licensee, time share project
or facility manager or operator, or in any other capacity. Where the operator
performs his or its functions through a managing agent of any type or
character, the managing agent shall also be deemed an operator for the purpose
of this chapter, and shall have jointly and severally the same duties and
liabilities as the principal. Compliance with the provisions of this chapter by
either the principal or the managing agent shall, however, be considered to be
compliance by both.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association, social
club, fraternal organization, joint stock company, corporation, estate, trust,
business trust, receiver, trustee, syndicate or any other group or combination
acting as a unit.
RENT: The amount of the consideration charged or chargeable to the tenant or
person entitled to occupancy, for the occupancy of space, valued in money,
whether received in money, goods, labor or otherwise, including the full value
of receipts, cash, credits, property or services of any kind or nature, without
any deduction whatsoever. "Rent" may have been, or may be in part, payable or
paid prior to or following (in whole or in part) the occupancy to which it is
attributable, and may have been paid in whole or in part in advance, on a long
term basis, such as in a time share project or similar arrangement. It is not
the intent of this definition to make the operator liable for the tax on
uncollected rent. However, uncollected rent must be reported.
TAX ADMINISTRATOR: The finance director or his designated agent.
TRANSIENT: Any person who exercises occupancy or is entitled to occupancy by
reason of concession, permit, right of access, license or other agreement of
whatever nature, for a period of thirty (30) consecutive calendar days or less,
counting portions of calendar days as full days. Any person so occupying space
in a hotel shall be deemed to be a transient if his actual total period of
occupancy does not exceed thirty (30) days. Unless days of occupancy or
entitlement to occupancy by one person are consecutive without any break, then
prior or subsequent periods of such occupancy or entitlement to occupancy shall
not be counted when determining whether a period exceeds the stated thirty (30)
calendar days. (Ord. 132, 8-22-2002)
3.24.030: TAX IMPOSED:
For the privilege of occupancy in any hotel, each transient is subject to, and
shall pay a tax in the amount of twelve percent (12%) of the rent charged by
the operator or otherwise payable by the transient. Insofar as the transient is
concerned, said tax constitutes a debt owed by the transient to the operator or
to the town. If the rent is paid in installments, a proportionate share of the
tax shall be paid with each installment. The unpaid tax shall be due upon the
transient's ceasing to occupy space in the hotel. If the tax is not paid to the
hotel operator, the tax administrator may require payment directly to him.
(Ord. 94, 8-20-1998; amd. Ord. 305, 11-8-2022)
3.24.040: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   No tax shall be imposed upon:
      1.   Any person as to whom or any occupancy as to which it is beyond the
power of the town to impose the tax herein provided;
      2.   Any officer or employee of a foreign government who is exempt by
reason of express provision of federal law or international treaty.
   B.   No exemptions shall be granted except upon a written claim therefore
made at the time the rent is collected and under penalty of perjury upon a form
prescribed by the tax administrator. Federal, state and local officers and
employees are not exempt. (Ord. 94, 8-20-1998)
3.24.050: OPERATOR'S DUTIES:
Each operator shall collect the tax imposed by this chapter to the same extent
and at the same time as the rent is collected from every transient. The amount
of the tax shall be separately stated from the amount of the rent charged, and
each transient shall receive a receipt from the operator. No operator of a
hotel shall advertise or state in any manner, whether directly or indirectly,
that the tax or any part thereof will be assumed or absorbed by the operator;
or that it will not be added to the rent; or that, if added, any part will be
refunded except in the manner hereinafter provided. (Ord. 94, 8-20-1998)
3.24.060: REGISTRATION:
   A.   Every person desiring to engage in or conduct business as operator of a
hotel renting to transients within the Town shall file with the Tax
Administrator an application for a transient occupancy registration permit for
each place of business. Every application for such a permit shall be made upon
a form prescribed by the Tax Administrator and shall set forth the name under
which the applicant transacts or intends to transact business, the location of
his place of business and such other information as the Tax Administrator may
require. The application shall be signed by the owner if a natural person, if a
member or partner, if an association or partnership, by an executive officer or
some person specifically authorized by the corporation to sign the application
in the case of a corporation. The transient occupancy registration permit must
be in affect at all times while the business is in operation and shall be at
all times posted in a conspicuous place on the premises. Said permit shall,
among other things, state the following:
      1.   Name of hotel;
      2.   Name of operator;
      3.   Hotel address;
      4.   The date upon which the permit was issued;
      5.   "This transient occupancy registration permit signifies that the
person named on the face hereof has fulfilled the requirements of the transient
occupancy tax chapter by registering with the Tax Administrator for the purpose
of collecting from transients the transient occupancy tax and remitting said
tax to the Tax Administrator. This permit does not authorize any person to
conduct any unlawful business in an unlawful manner, nor operate a hotel
without strictly complying with all applicable laws, including, but not limited
to, those requiring a permit from any board, commission, department or office
of this Town. This permit does not apply in lieu of such other permits which
are otherwise required."
   B.   At the time of making an application for a registration permit, the
applicant shall pay a registration fee of twenty dollars ($20.00) for each
permit issued. (Ord. 94, 8-20-1998)
3.24.070: RETURNS AND REMITTANCES:
The tax imposed under Section
3.24.030 of this Chapter is:
   A.   Due to the Tax Administrator at the time it is collected by the
operator, and
   B.   Becomes delinquent and subject to penalties if not received by the Tax
Administrator on or before the last working day of the month following the
close of each calendar month. (Ord. 94, 8-20-1998)
3.24.080: REPORTING AND REMITTING:
Each operator shall, on or before the last working day of the month following
the close of each calendar month, file a return with the Tax Administrator on
the forms provided by him, of the total rents charged or chargeable as provided
in Section
3.24.030 of this Chapter, whether or not received, including any rentals
charged for occupancies exempt under the provisions of Section
3.24.020 defining "transient" and Section
3.24.040 of this Chapter and the amount of tax collected for transient
occupancies. Each such return shall contain a declaration under penalty of
perjury, executed by the operator or his authorized agent, that to the best of
the signatories knowledge, the statements in the return are true, correct and
complete. Amounts claimed on the return as exempt from the tax pursuant to
Section
3.24.020 defining "transient" and Sections
 3.24.040 and
3.24.150 of this Chapter shall be fully itemized and explained on the return or
supporting schedule. In determining the amount of taxable receipts on the tax
return, rent, as defined in Section
3.24.020 of this Chapter, may not be reduced by any business expenses
including, but not limited to, the amount of service charges deducted by credit
card companies or commissions paid to travel agencies. At the time the return
is filed, the tax fixed at the prevailing transient occupancy tax rate for the
amount of rentals charged or chargeable, which are not exempt from tax under
Section
3.24.020 defining "transient" and Sections
3.24.040 and
3.24.150 of this Chapter shall be remitted to the Tax Administrator. The Tax
Administrator may establish other reporting periods and may require a cash
deposit or bond or a separate trust fund bank account for any permit holder if
he deems it necessary in order to ensure collection of the tax and he may
require further information in the return. All taxes collected by operators
pursuant to this Chapter shall be held in trust for the account of the Town
until remittance thereof is made to the Tax Administrator. (Ord. 94, 8-20-1998)
3.24.090: CESSATION OF BUSINESS:
Each operator shall notify the Tax Administrator ten (10) days prior to the
sale or cessation of business for any reason, and returns and remittances are
due immediately upon the sale or cessation of business. (Ord. 94, 8-20-1998)
3.24.100: DELINQUENCY:
Any operator who fails to remit any tax to the Town or any amount of tax
required to be collected and remitted to the Town, including amounts based on
determination made by the Tax Administrator under Section
3.24.120 of this Chapter, within the time required, shall pay a penalty of ten
percent (10%) of the tax or amount of the tax in addition to the tax or amount
of tax plus interest at the rate of one-half percent (0.5%) per month, or
fraction thereof, from the date on which the tax or the amount of tax required
to be collected becomes delinquent until the date of remittance or payment. Any
operator who fails to pay any penalty imposed under this Section within ten
(10) days after receipt of notice thereof shall pay interest thereon at the
rate of one-half of one percent (0.5%) per month, or fraction thereof, from the
date on which the penalty becomes due and payable to the Town until the date of
payment. (Ord. 94, 8-20-1998)
3.24.110: FRAUD:
If the Tax Administrator determines that the failure to make any remittance or
payment due under this Chapter is due to fraud, a penalty on one hundred
percent (100%) of the amount of the tax and penalties shall be added thereto in
addition to the penalties stated in Section
 3.24.100 of this Chapter. (Ord. 94, 8-20-1998)
3.24.120: FAILURE TO COLLECT AND REPORT TAX; DETERMINATIONS OF TAX
ADMINISTRATOR:
If any operator fails or refuses to collect said tax and to make, within the
time provided in this Chapter, any report and remittance of said tax or any
portion thereof required by this Chapter, the Tax Administrator shall proceed
in such manner as he may deem best to obtain facts and information on which to
base his estimate of the tax due. As soon as the Tax Administrator procures
such facts and information as he is able to obtain upon which to base the
assessment of any tax imposed by the Chapter payable by any operator who has
failed or refused to collect the same and make such report and remittance, he
shall proceed to determine and assess against such operator the tax, interest
and penalties provided for by this Chapter. In case such determination is made,
the Tax Administrator shall give a notice of the amount so assessed by serving
it personally or by depositing it in the United States mail, postage prepaid,
addressed to the operator so assessed at his last known address. Such operator
may within ten (10) days after the serving or mailing of such notice make
application in writing to the Tax Administrator for a hearing on the amount
assessed. If application by the operator for a hearing is not made within the
time prescribed, the tax, interest and penalties, if any, determined by the Tax
Administrator shall become final and conclusive and immediately due and
payable. If such application is made, the Tax Administrator shall give not less
than five (5) days' written notice in the manner prescribed herein to the
operator to show cause at a time and place fixed in said notice why said amount
specified therein should not be fixed for such tax, interest and penalties. At
such hearing, the operator may appear and offer evidence why such specified
tax, interest and penalties should not be so fixed. After such hearing the Tax
Administrator shall determine the proper tax to be remitted and shall
thereafter give written notice to the person in the manner prescribed herein of
the determination and the amount of such tax, interest and penalties. The
amount determined to be due shall be payable after fifteen (15) days unless an
appeal is taken as provided in Section
 3.24.130 of this Chapter. (Ord. 94, 8-20-1998)
3.24.130: APPEALS:
Any operator aggrieved by any decision of the Tax Administrator with respect to
the amount of any tax, interest and penalties, if any, may appeal to the Town
Council by filing a notice of appeal with the Town Clerk within fifteen (15)
days of serving of the assessment or determination of tax and penalties, if
any, due. The Town Council shall fix a time and place for hearing the appeal,
and the Town Clerk shall give notice in writing to the operator at his last
known address. The findings of the Town Council shall be final and conclusive
and shall be served upon the appellant in the manner prescribed above for
service of notice of hearing. Any amount found to be due shall be immediately
due and payable upon the service of notice. (Ord. 94, 8-20-1998)
3.24.140: RECORDS:
It shall be the duty of every operator liable for the collection and remittance
to the Town of any tax imposed by this Chapter to keep and preserve, in the
Town, for a period of three (3) years, records in such form as the Tax
Administrator may require to determine the amount of such tax. The Tax
Administrator shall have the right to inspect such records at all reasonable
times and may subpoena the records of any operator who refuses to make them
available for examination. (Ord. 94, 8-20-1998)
3.24.150: REFUNDS:
   A.   Whenever the amount of any tax, interest or penalty has been overpaid
or paid more than once or has been erroneously or illegally collected or
received by the Town under this Chapter, it may be refunded as provided in
subsections B and C of this Section, provided a claim in writing therefor,
stating under penalty of perjury the specific grounds upon which the claim is
founded, is filed with the Tax Administrator within three (3) years of the date
of payment. The claims shall be on forms furnished by the Tax Administrator.
   B.   An operator may claim a refund or take as credit against taxes
collected and remitted the amount overpaid, paid more than once or erroneously
or illegally collected or received when it is established in a manner
prescribed by the Tax Administrator that the person from whom the tax has been
collected was not a transient; provided, however, that neither a refund nor a
credit shall be allowed unless the amount of the tax so collected has either
been refunded to the person or credited to rent subsequently payable by the
person to the operator.
   C.   A transient may obtain a refund of taxes overpaid or paid more than
once erroneously or illegally collected or received by the Town by filing a
claim in the manner provided in subsection A of this Section, but only when the
tax was paid by the transient directly to the Tax Administrator, or when the
transient having paid the tax to the operator, establishes to the satisfaction
of the Tax Administrator that the transient has been unable to obtain a refund
from the operator who collected the tax.
   D.   No refund shall be paid under the provisions of this Section unless the
claimant establishes his right thereto by written record. (Ord. 94, 8-20-1998)
3.24.160: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
Whenever any operator fails to comply with any provision of this Chapter
relating to occupancy tax or any rule or regulation of the Tax Administrator
relating to occupancy tax prescribed and adopted under this Chapter, the Tax
Administrator upon hearing, after giving the operator ten (10) days' notice in
writing specifying the time and place of hearing and requiring him to show
cause why his permit or permits should not be revoked, may suspend or revoke
any one or more of the permits held by the operator. The Tax Administrator
shall give to the operator written notice of the suspension or revocation of
any of his permits. The notices herein required may be served personally or by
mail in the manner prescribed for service of notice of a deficiency
determination. The Tax Administrator shall not issue a new permit after the
revocation of a permit unless he is satisfied that the former holder of the
permit will comply with the provisions of this Chapter relating to the
occupancy tax and regulations of the Tax Administrator. (Ord. 94, 8-20-1998)
3.24.170: CLOSURE OF HOTEL WITHOUT PERMIT:
During any period of time during which a permit has not been issued, or is
suspended, revoked or otherwise not validly in effect, the Tax Administrator
may require that the hotel be closed. (Ord. 94, 8-20-1998)
3.24.180: RECORDING CERTIFICATE; LIEN:
If any amount required to be remitted or paid to the Town under this Chapter is
not remitted or paid when due, the Tax Administrator may, within three (3)
years after the amount is due, file for record in the office of the County of
San Bernardino Recorder a certificate specifying the amount of tax, penalties
and interest due, the name and address as it appears on the records of the Tax
Administrator of the operator liable for the same and the fact that the Tax
Administrator has complied with all provisions of this Chapter in the
determination of the amount required to be remitted and paid. From the time of
the filing for record, the amount required to be remitted together with
penalties and interest constituting a lien upon all real property in the County
owned by the operator or afterwards and before the lien expires acquired by
him. The lien has the force, effect and priority of a judgement lien and shall
continue for ten (10) years from the time of filing of the certificate unless
sooner released or otherwise discharged. (Ord. 94, 8-20-1998)
3.24.190: PRIORITY AND LIEN OF TAX:
   A.   The amounts required to be remitted and/or paid by any operator under
this Chapter with penalties and interest shall be satisfied first in any of the
following cases:
      1.   Whenever the person is insolvent;
      2.   Whenever the person makes a voluntary assignment of his assets;
      3.   Whenever the estate of the person in the hands of executors,
administrators, or heirs is insufficient to pay all the debts due from the
deceased;
      4.   Whenever the estate and effects of an absconding, concealed or
absent person required to pay any amount under this Chapter are levied upon by
process law. This Chapter does not give the Town a preference over any recorded
lien which attached prior to the date when the amounts required to be paid
became a lien.
   B.   The preference given to the Town by this Section shall be subordinate
to the preferences given to claims for personal services by California Code of
Civil Procedure sections 1204 and 1206. (Ord. 94, 8-20-1998)
3.24.200: WARRANT FOR COLLECTION OF TAX:
At any time within three (3) years after any operator is delinquent in the
remittance or payment of any amount herein required to be remitted or paid or
within three (3) years after the last recording of a certificate under Section
3.24.160 of this Chapter, the Tax Administrator may issue a warrant for the
enforcement of any liens and for the collection of any amount required to be
paid to the Town under this Chapter. The warrant shall be directed to any
sheriff, marshal or constable and shall have the same effect as a writ of
execution. The warrant shall be levied and sale made pursuant to it in the same
manner with the same effect as a levy of and a sale pursuant to a writ of
execution. The Tax Administrator may pay or advance to the sheriff, marshal or
constable the same fees, commissions and expenses for his services as are
provided by law for similar services pursuant to a writ of execution. The Tax
Administrator, and not the court, shall approve the fees for publication in a
newspaper with general circulation within the Town. (Ord. 94, 8-20-1998; amd.
2000 Code)
3.24.210: SEIZURE AND SALE:
At any time within three (3) years after any operator is delinquent in the
remittance or payment of any amount, the Tax Administrator may forthwith
collect the amount in the following manner. The Tax Administrator shall seize
any property, real or personal, of the operator and sell the property, or a
sufficient part of it, at public auction to pay the amount due together with
any penalties and interest imposed for the delinquency and any costs incurred
on account of the seizure and sale. Any seizure made to collect occupancy taxes
due shall be only of property of the operator not exempt from execution under
the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure. (Ord. 94, 8-20-1998)
3.24.220: SUCCESSOR'S LIABILITY:
   A.   Withholding By Purchase: If any operator liable for any amount under
this Chapter sells out his business or quits the business, his successor or
assigns shall withhold sufficient of the purchase price to cover such amount
until the former owner produces a receipt from the Tax Administrator showing
that it has been paid or a certificate stating that no amount is due.
   B.   Liability Of Purchaser; Release: If the purchaser of a hotel fails to
withhold purchase price as required, he shall become personally liable for the
payment of the amount required to be withheld by him to the extent of the
purchase price, valued in money. Within sixty (60) days after receiving a
written request from the purchaser for a certificate, or within sixty (60) days
from the date the former owner's records are made available for audit,
whichever period expires the later, but in any event not later than ninety (90)
days after receiving the request, the Tax Administrator shall either issue the
certificate or mail notice to the purchaser at his address as it appears on the
records of the Tax Administrator of the amount that must be paid as a condition
of issuing the certificate. Failure of the Tax Administrator to mail the notice
will release the purchaser from any further obligation to withhold purchase
price as above provided. The time within which the obligation of the successor
may be enforced shall start to run at the time the operator sells his business
or at the time that the determination against the operator becomes final,
whichever event occurs later. (Ord. 94, 8-20-1998)
3.24.230: RESPONSIBILITY FOR PAYMENT:
Any tax required to be paid by any transient under the provisions of this
Chapter shall be deemed a debt owed by the transient to the Town. Any such tax
collected by an operator which has not been remitted to the Town is a fiduciary
obligation of the operator to the Town and collectible in the same manner as a
debt. Any person owing money to the Town under the provisions of this Chapter
shall be liable to an action brought in the name of the Town for the recovery
of such amount. (Ord. 94, 8-20-1998)
3.24.240: WITHHOLD NOTICE:
If any person or operator is delinquent in the remittance or payment of the
amount required to be remitted or paid by him or in the event a determination
has been made against him for the remittance of tax and payment of the penalty,
the Town may, within three (3) years after the tax obligation became due, give
notice thereof personally or by registered mail to all persons, including the
State or any political subdivision thereof, having in their possession or under
their control any credits or other personal property belonging to the taxpayer.
After receiving the withholding notice, the person so notified shall make no
disposition of the taxpayer's credits, other personal property or debts until
the Town consents to a transfer or disposition or until sixty (60) days elapse
after the receipt of the notice, whichever expires earlier. All persons, upon
receipt of said notice, shall advise the Town immediately of all such credits,
other personal property or debts in their possession, under their control or
owing by them. If such notice seeks to prevent the transfer or other
disposition of a deposit in a bank or other credits or personal property in the
possession or under the control of the bank, to be effective the notice shall
be delivered or mailed to the branch or office of such bank at which such
deposit is carried or at which such credits or personal property is held. If
any person so notified makes transfer or disposition of the property or debts
required to be held hereunder during the effective period of the notice to
withhold, he shall be liable to the Town to the extent of the value of the
release up to the amount of the indebtedness owed by the taxpayer to the Town.
(Ord. 94, 8-20-1998; amd. 2000 Code)
3.24.250: VIOLATIONS; MISDEMEANOR:
   A.   Except for failure of an operator to pay to the Tax Administrator taxes
collected under this Chapter which is punishable as a felony pursuant to
California Penal Code section 424, every violation of this Chapter is a
misdemeanor and punishable by a fine not exceeding five hundred dollars
($500.00) or imprisonment in the County jail for not more than six (6) months
or by both such fine and imprisonment.
   B.   If such offense is not otherwise punishable as mentioned in subsection
A of this Section, any person wilfully failing to comply with, or knowingly
violating, any of the provisions of this Chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
   C.   Any operator or other person who wilfully fails or refuses to register
as required herein, or to furnish any return required to be made, or who fails
or refuses to furnish a supplemental return or other data required by the Tax
Administrator, or who renders a false or fraudulent return or claim is guilty
of a misdemeanor. Any person required to make, render, sign or verify any
report or claim who wilfully makes any false or fraudulent report or claim with
intent to defeat or evade the determination of any amount due required by this
Chapter to be made, is guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 94, 8-20-1998)
   D.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, any violation of any of the provisions
of this Chapter may be, but is not required to be, prosecuted as an
administrative citation procedure pursuant to
Chapter 1.04 of this Code. (Ord. 97, 11-5-1998)
3.24.260: EXTENSION OF TIME:
The Tax Administrator, for good cause, may extend for not to exceed one month
the time for making any return or paying any amount required to be paid under
this Chapter. The extension may be granted at any time, provided a request
therefor is filed with the Tax Administrator within or prior to the period for
which the extension may be granted. Any person to whom an extension is granted
shall pay, in addition to the tax, interest at the rate of one percent (1%) per
month or fraction thereof, from the date on which the tax would have been due
without the extension until the date of payment. (Ord. 94, 8-20-1998)
3.24.270: DIVULGING OF INFORMATION FORBIDDEN:
It is unlawful for any person having an administrative duty under this Chapter
to make known in any manner whatever the business affairs, operations or
information obtained by an investigation of the records of any operator or any
other person visited or examined in the discharge of official duty, or the
amount or source of income, profits, losses, expenditures or any particular
thereof, set forth or disclosed in any return, or to knowingly permit any
return or copy thereof or any abstract or particulars thereof to be seen or
examined by any person. Successors, receivers, trustees, executors,
administrators, assignees and guarantors, if directly interested, may be given
information as to the items included in the amounts of any unpaid tax or
amounts of tax, penalties and interest required to be collected. (Ord. 94, 8-
20-1998)
3.24.280: AGREEMENT WITH COUNTY:
The Town is empowered to enter into a joint powers agreement with other cities
and the County of San Bernardino, and if such agreement or agreements can be
made wherein central collection for the County of San Bernardino is provided,
then it shall be done upon approval by the Town Council. (Ord. 94, 8-20-1998)
CHAPTER 3.26
TEMPORARY TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX
SECTION:
3.26.010: Short Title
3.26.020: Basic Definitions
3.26.030: Operative Date
3.26.040: Purpose
3.26.050: Contract With State
3.26.060: Imposition Of Transactions Tax; Transactions Tax Rate
3.26.070: Place Of Sale
3.26.080: Use Tax Rate
3.26.090: Proceeds Of Tax
3.26.100: Adoption Of Provisions Of State Law
3.26.110: Limitations On Adoption Of State Law And Collection Of Use Taxes
3.26.120: Permit Not Required
3.26.130: Exemptions And Exclusions
3.26.140: Changes In Law
3.26.150: Enjoining Collection Forbidden
3.26.160: Annual Audit
3.26.170: Citizen Oversight Committee
3.26.180: All Funds Staying Local
3.26.190: Effective Date
3.26.200: Termination Date
3.26.210: Penalties
3.26.220: Amendments
3.26.010: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the TOWN OF YUCCA VALLEY ESSENTIAL SERVICES
TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX ORDINANCE. This chapter shall be applicable only in
the incorporated territory of the Town. (Ord. 263, 11-8-2016)
3.26.020: BASIC DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, "Town" means the Town of Yucca Valley and "tax" means
the temporary transactions and use tax (general tax) imposed under the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 263, 11-8-2016)
3.26.030: OPERATIVE DATE:
"Operative date" means the first day that the tax is imposed. The "operative
date" means the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing more than
one hundred ten (110) days after the effective date of this chapter, such
effective date being as set forth in section 3-26-190 of this chapter. (Ord.
263, 11-8-2016)
3.26.040: PURPOSE:
This chapter is adopted to achieve the following, among other purposes, and
directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those
purposes:
   A.   To impose a temporary retail transactions and use tax in accordance
with the provisions of part 1.6 (commencing with section 7251) of division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code and section 7285.9 of part 1.7 of division 2,
which authorizes the Town to adopt this chapter which shall be operative only
if a majority of the electors voting on the measure vote to approve the
imposition of the tax at an election called for that purpose.
   B.   To adopt a temporary retail transactions and use tax (general tax)
ordinance that incorporates provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use
Tax Law of the State of California insofar as those provisions are not
inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in part 1.6 of
division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.
   C.   To adopt a temporary retail transactions and use tax ordinance that
imposes a general tax and provides a measure therefor that may be administered
and collected by the State Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself
as fully as practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation from, the
existing statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State Board of
Equalization in administering and collecting the California State sales and use
taxes.
   D.   To adopt a temporary retail transactions and use tax ordinance that may
be administered in a manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible,
consistent with the provisions of part 1.6 of division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transactions and use taxes,
and at the same time, minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons
subject to taxation under the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 263, 11-8-2016)
3.26.050: CONTRACT WITH STATE:
Prior to the operative date, the Town shall contract with the State Board of
Equalization to perform all functions incident to the administration and
operation of this chapter; provided however, that if the Town shall not have
contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it
shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case the operative date shall be
the first day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of such a
contract. (Ord. 263, 11-8-2016)
3.26.060: IMPOSITION OF TRANSACTIONS TAX; TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE:
For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is
hereby imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated territory of the Town at
the rate of one-half cent per dollar (0.5%) of the gross receipts of any
retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in said
territory on and after the operative date of this chapter. (Ord. 263, 11-8-
2016)
3.26.070: PLACE OF SALE:
For the purposes of this chapter, all retail sales are consummated at the place
of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is
delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a
common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts
from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges are subject
to the State sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is
made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the State
or has more than one (1) place of business, the place or places at which the
retail sales are consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to
be prescribed and adopted by the State Board of Equalization. (Ord. 263, 11-8-
2016)
3.26.080: USE TAX RATE:
An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in the
Town of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and after the
operative date of this chapter for storage, use or other consumption in said
territory at the rate of one-half cent per dollar (0.5%) of the sales price of
the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges when such charges
are subject to State sales or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery
is made. (Ord. 263, 11-8-2016)
3.26.090: PROCEEDS OF TAX:
The proceeds of the transactions and use tax imposed by this chapter shall be
deposited into the General Fund of the Town to be used for all general
government purposes which may include, but are not limited to, fire and police
protection, street and sidewalk repair and maintenance, library services, park
repair and maintenance, recreational programs, building and code enforcement
services, planning and zoning services, capital equipment requirements, public
infrastructure, utilities and sewer systems, repair and replacement of Town
facilities, capital improvement projects, operational expenses, fiduciary
responsibilities, administration, indebtedness and general obligations of the
Town. The tax imposed by this chapter is intended to be and is, a general tax,
the proceeds of which are to be spent as the Town Council shall in its
discretion, from time to time, determine. (Ord. 263, 11-8-2016)
3.26.100: ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW:
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of part 1.6 of division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, all of the provisions of part 1 (commencing with section 6001)
of division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a
part of this chapter as though fully set forth herein. (Ord. 263, 11-8-2016)
3.26.110: LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND COLLECTION OF USE TAXES:
In adopting the provisions of part 1 of division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code:
   A.   Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing
agency, the name of the Town shall be substituted therefor. However, the
substitution shall not be made when:
      1.   The word "State" is used as a part of the title of the State
Controller, State Treasurer, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or
the Constitution of the State of California.
      2.   The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by
or against this Town or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by
or against the State Board of Equalization, in performing the functions
incident to the administration or operation of this chapter.
      3.   In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to,
sections referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where
the result of the substitution would be to:
         a.   Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales,
storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property, which would
not otherwise be exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other
consumption remain subject to tax by the State under the provisions of part 1
of division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or
         b.   Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or
other consumption of tangible personal property, which would not be subject to
tax by the State under the said provision of that code.
      4.   In sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711,
6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.
   B.   The word "Town" shall be substituted for the word "State" in the phrase
"retailer engaged in business in this State" in section 6203 and in the
definition of that phrase in section 6203 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.
(Ord. 263, 11-8-2016)
3.26.120: PERMIT NOT REQUIRED:
If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer under section 6067 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor's permit shall not be
required by this chapter. (Ord. 263, 11-8-2016)
3.26.130: EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS:
   A.   There shall be excluded from the calculation of the transactions tax
and the use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of
California or by any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-
Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any State-
administered transactions or use tax.
   B.   There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions
tax the gross receipts from:
      1.   Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum
products, to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside
the County in which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of
such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property under the authority of
the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government.
      2.   Sales of property to be used outside the Town which is shipped to a
point outside the Town, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such
point by the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier
for shipment to a consignee at such point. For the purposes of this paragraph,
delivery to a point outside the Town shall be satisfied:
         a.   With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject
to registration pursuant to chapter 1 (commencing with section 4000) of
division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with section
21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels registered under
division 3.5 (commencing with section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration
to an out-of-Town address and by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed
by the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or her principal place
of residence; and
         b.   With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place
of business out-of-Town and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the
buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from that address.
      3.   The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to
furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into
prior to the operative date of this chapter.
      4.   A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of
such property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to
lease the property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date
of this chapter.
      5.   For the purposes of subsections B3 and B4 of this section, the sale
or lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated
pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to
the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or
lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.
   C.   There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this chapter, the
storage, use or other consumption in this Town of tangible personal property:
      1.   The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a
transactions tax under any State-administered transactions and use tax
ordinance.
      2.   Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of
aircraft and used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the
use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or
compensation under a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued
pursuant to the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign
government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in
sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of
California.
      3.   If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed
price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this
chapter.
      4.   If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over,
the tangible personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing
purchase of such property for any period of time for which the lessee is
obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the
operative date of this chapter.
      5.   For the purposes of subsections C3 and C4 of this section, storage,
use, or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power
over, tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant
to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the
contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or
lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.
      6.   Except as provided in subsection C7 of this section, a retailer
engaged in business in the Town shall not be required to collect use tax from
the purchaser of tangible personal property, unless the retailer ships or
delivers the property into the Town or participates within the Town in making
the sale of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or
receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of
the retailer in the Town or through any representative, agent, canvasser,
solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the Town under the authority of the
retailer.
      7.   "A retailer engaged in business in the Town" shall also include any
retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to
chapter 1 (commencing with section 4000) of division 3 of the Vehicle Code,
aircraft licensed in compliance with section 21411 of the Public Utilities
Code, or undocumented vessels registered under division 3.5 (commencing with
section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect
use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or
aircraft at an address in the Town.
   D.   Any person subject to use tax under this chapter may credit against
that tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a
district imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to part
1.6 of division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to
the person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of which is
subject to the use tax. (Ord. 263, 11-8-2016)
3.26.140: CHANGES IN LAW:
All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this chapter to part 1 of
division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and
which are not inconsistent with part 1.6 and part 1.7 of division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to part 1.6 and part 1.7 of
division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part
of this chapter, provided however, that no such amendment shall operate so as
to affect the rate of tax imposed by this chapter. (Ord. 263, 11-8-2016)
3.26.150: ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN:
No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall
issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the State or the
Town, or against any officer of the State or the Town, to prevent or enjoin the
collection under this chapter, or part 1.6 of division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected. (Ord.
263, 11-8-2016)
3.26.160: ANNUAL AUDIT:
The proceeds resulting from this transactions and use tax shall be deposited
into the Town's General Fund and become subject to the same independent annual
audit requirements as other General Fund revenue. (Ord. 263, 11-8-2016)
3.26.170: CITIZEN OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE:
An Independent Citizens' Oversight Committee appointed by the Town Council
shall review the expenditures of revenues generated by the tax imposed by this
chapter and make the results of such review publicly available. Such Committee
shall meet and be subject to all provisions of the Ralph M. Brown Act,
Government Code sections 54950 et seq. (Ord. 263, 11-8-2016)
3.26.180: ALL FUNDS STAYING LOCAL:
All tax revenues collected under the authority of this chapter shall be
expended solely on local Municipal services, and shall not be used for any
other purposes. (Ord. 263, 11-8-2016)
3.26.190: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This chapter levying the tax described herein shall be effective ten (10) days
after the date on which the Town Council has declared that the voters of the
Town of Yucca Valley have approved this chapter by a vote of no less than a
majority of the votes cast by the electors voting on the tax measure set forth
in this chapter at that general municipal election to be held on Tuesday,
November 8, 2016. (Ord. 263, 11-8-2016)
3.26.200: TERMINATION DATE:
The authority to levy the tax imposed by this chapter shall expire ten (10)
years from the operative date. (Ord. 263, 11-8-2016)
3.26.210: PENALTIES:
Without limiting any remedies available at law or equity, any person violating
any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 263, 11-8-2016)
3.26.220: AMENDMENTS:
The tax rate in this chapter may only be increased by a vote of the people of
the Town of Yucca Valley; provided, however, that the Town Council may amend
this chapter to reduce the amount of the tax authorized herein or to otherwise
implement or advance the purpose and intent of this chapter. (Ord. 263, 11-8-
2016)
CHAPTER 3.28
SEWER IMPLEMENTATION AND ASSESSMENT ASSISTANCE TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX
SECTION:
3.28.010: Short Title
3.28.020: Basic Definitions
3.28.030: Operative Date
3.28.040: General Purpose
3.28.050: Contract With State
3.28.060: Imposition Of Transactions Tax; Transactions Tax Rate
3.28.070: Place Of Sale
3.28.080: Use Tax Rate
3.28.090: Special Purpose; Dedication Of Tax Proceeds Towards Sewer
Implementation; Lowering Of Citizen Sewer Assessments
3.28.100: Adoption Of Provisions Of State Law
3.28.110: Limitations On Adoption Of State Law And Collection Of Use Taxes
3.28.120: Permit Not Required
3.28.130: Exemptions And Exclusions
3.28.140: Changes In Law
3.28.150: Enjoining Collection Forbidden
3.28.180: Effective Date
3.28.190: Termination Date
3.28.200: Citizen Special Tax Oversight Committee
3.28.210: Penalties
3.28.220: Amendments
3.28.010: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the TOWN OF YUCCA VALLEY SEWER IMPLEMENTATION
AND ASSESSMENT ASSISTANCE TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX ORDINANCE. This chapter
shall be applicable only in the incorporated territory of the Town. (Ord. 264,
11-8-2016)
3.28.020: BASIC DEFINITIONS:
   A.   As used in this chapter, "Town" means the Town of Yucca Valley and
"tax" means the temporary transactions and use tax (special tax) imposed under
the provisions of this chapter. The tax imposed in this chapter is a special
tax, the funds of which shall be dedicated towards those sewer implementation
purposes described in section
3.28.090 of this chapter.
   B.   As used in this chapter, "Hi-Desert Water District" means that County
water district by the same name organized and operating pursuant to the
provisions of the County Water District Law, Water Code sections 30000 et seq.
   C.   As used in this chapter, "sewer project" means that Town-wide
conversion of septic systems to a sewer collection system and construction of
wastewater reclamation facilities, recharge ponds and appurtenances, all as
undertaken by the Hi-Desert Water District in response to California Regional
Water Quality Control Board Resolution No. R7-2011-0004 adopted on May 19,
2011.
   D.   As used in this chapter, "assessment" means all assessed rates levied
in the Town pursuant to the provisions of the "Municipal Improvement Act of
1913" (being division 12 of the Streets and Highways Code of the State of
California, commencing with section 10000), for purposes of financing the costs
constructing the sewer project, including rates adopted for Assessment District
2014-1 and subsequent assessment districts formed or annexed by vote in
relation thereto. (Ord. 264, 11-8-2016)
3.28.030: OPERATIVE DATE:
"Operative date" means the first day that the tax is imposed. The "operative
date" means the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing more than
one hundred ten (110) days after the effective date of this chapter, such
effective date being as set forth in section
3.28.180 of this chapter. (Ord. 264, 11-8-2016)
3.28.040: GENERAL PURPOSE:
This chapter is adopted to achieve the following, among other purposes, and
directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those
purposes:
   A.   To impose a special, temporary retail transactions and use tax in
accordance with the provisions of part 1.6 (commencing with section 7251) of
division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and section 7285.91 of part 1.7 of
division 2, which authorizes the Town to adopt this chapter, which shall be
operative if two- thirds (2/3) of the electors voting on the measure vote to
approve the imposition of the tax at an election called for that purpose.
   B.   To adopt a temporary retail transactions and use tax (special tax)
ordinance that incorporates provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use
Tax Law of the State of California insofar as those provisions are not
inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in part 1.6 of
division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.
   C.   To adopt a temporary retail transactions and use tax ordinance that
imposes a special tax and provides a measure therefor that may be administered
and collected by the State Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself
as fully as practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation from, the
existing statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State Board of
Equalization in administering and collecting the California State sales and use
taxes.
   D.   To adopt a special, temporary retail transactions and use tax ordinance
that may be administered in a manner that will be, to the greatest degree
possible, consistent with the provisions of part 1.6 of division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transactions and
use taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden of record keeping upon
persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 264,
11-8-2016)
3.28.050: CONTRACT WITH STATE:
Prior to the operative date, the Town shall contract with the State Board of
Equalization to perform all functions incident to the administration and
operation of this chapter; provided however, that if the Town shall not have
contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it
shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case the operative date shall be
the first day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of such a
contract. (Ord. 264, 11-8-2016)
3.28.060: IMPOSITION OF TRANSACTIONS TAX; TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE:
For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is
hereby imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated territory of the Town at
the rate of one-half cent per dollar (0.5%) of the gross receipts of any
retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in said
territory on and after the operative date of this chapter. (Ord. 264, 11-8-
2016)
3.28.070: PLACE OF SALE:
For the purposes of this chapter, all retail sales are consummated at the place
of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is
delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a
common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts
from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges are subject
to the State sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is
made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the State
or has more than one (1) place of business, the place or places at which the
retail sales are consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to
be prescribed and adopted by the State Board of Equalization. (Ord. 264, 11-8-
2016)
3.28.080: USE TAX RATE:
An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in the
Town of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and after the
operative date of this chapter for storage, use or other consumption in said
territory at the rate of one-half cent per dollar (0.5%) of the sales price of
the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges when such charges
are subject to State sales or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery
is made. (Ord. 264, 11-8-2016)
3.28.090: SPECIAL PURPOSE; DEDICATION OF TAX PROCEEDS TOWARDS SEWER
IMPLEMENTATION; LOWERING OF CITIZEN SEWER ASSESSMENTS:
   A.   The tax established by this chapter is a special tax, the proceeds of
which are dedicated towards subsidizing those assessments levied upon Town
citizens for sewer project implementation.
   B.   Revenue and Taxation Code section 7285.91 requires that this chapter
include "an expenditure plan describing the specific projects for which the
revenues from the tax may be expended". All revenue from the tax shall be
restricted revenue, expended solely to fund the sewer project in such a manner
as to lower sewer project assessments levied upon citizens in the Town of Yucca
Valley. The Town shall negotiate an agreement with the Hi- Desert Water
District under which the Town will remit payments of the tax proceeds towards
the sewer project on an agreed-upon basis, subject to the following terms:
      1.   The Town's allocation of the tax proceeds towards the sewer project
shall be credited towards sewer project assessments imposed upon Town citizens,
      2.   The tax proceeds shall be credited towards sewer project assessments
equitably amongst all assessment payers in all sewer project phases, such that
all assessment payers will receive the same pro-rata percentage decrease in
their assessments,
      3.   The tax proceeds shall not be used to pay for any sewer project
services or improvements already provided by a governmental or private entity
or in a manner that would diminish or replace services provided by the Hi-
Desert Water District,
      4.   The tax proceeds may be used to pay for the Town's costs associated
with those independent audits, special fund management and administrative costs
associated with the tax required by this chapter, excepting that payment of
administrative costs shall not exceed five percent (5%) of the annual tax
proceeds in any annual period, and
      5.   The Town's expenditure of tax proceeds shall be made on a regular
basis on a frequency to be determined by the Town and in conformance with the
State Board of Equalization's allocation of such proceeds to the Town.
In the event the Town and Hi-Desert Water District are unable to reach mutual
agreement upon the foregoing terms, the Town shall undertake an alternative
method of utilizing the tax proceeds to directly achieve lower assessments in
an equitable manner for all sewer project phases, in accord with the foregoing
expenditure terms in subsections B1 through B5 of this section. In any event,
any expenditure of tax proceeds shall be undertaken for the sole purpose of
decreasing or subsidizing assessments equitably in all sewer project phases.
   C.   When received by the Town, the proceeds resulting from the transactions
and use tax imposed by this chapter shall be deposited into a special fund
established by the Town as the "Sewer Project Assessment Assistance Fund". The
Town's independent auditors shall complete a report reviewing the collection,
management and expenditure of revenue from the tax levied by this chapter. The
independent auditor's report shall include an accounting of the revenues
received and expenditures made from the Sewer Project Assessment Assistance
Fund annually to the Town Council and made available for public review. The
Town Council shall, as part of the Town's regular budget process, annually
review, direct and adopt an expenditure plan for the Sewer Project Assessment
Assistance Fund, applying the proceeds of the transactions and use tax
consistent with the requirements of this chapter. In no event shall the Town
Council have authority to direct a use of tax proceeds that is inconsistent
with the purposes expressed in this chapter. (Ord. 264, 11-8-2016)
3.28.100: ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW:
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of part 1.6 of division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, all of the provisions of part 1 (commencing with section 6001)
of division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a
part of this chapter as though fully set forth herein. (Ord. 264, 11-8-2016)
3.28.110: LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND COLLECTION OF USE TAXES:
In adopting the provisions of part 1 of division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code:
   A.   Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing
agency, the name of the Town shall be substituted therefor. However, the
substitution shall not be made when:
      1.   The word "State" is used as a part of the title of the State
Controller, State Treasurer, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or
the Constitution of the State of California.
      2.   The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by
or against this Town or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by
or against the State Board of Equalization, in performing the functions
incident to the administration or operation of this chapter.
      3.   In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to,
sections referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where
the result of the substitution would be to:
         a.   Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales,
storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property, which would
not otherwise be exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other
consumption remain subject to tax by the State under the provisions of part 1
of division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or
         b.   Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or
other consumption of tangible personal property, which would not be subject to
tax by the State under the said provision of that code.
      4.   In sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711,
6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.
   B.   The word "Town" shall be substituted for the word "State" in the phrase
"retailer engaged in business in this State" in section 6203 and in the
definition of that phrase in section 6203 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.
(Ord. 264, 11-8-2016)
3.28.120: PERMIT NOT REQUIRED:
If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer under section 6067 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor's permit shall not be
required by this chapter. (Ord. 264, 11-8-2016)
3.28.130: EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS:
   A.   There shall be excluded from the measure of the special transactions
tax and the use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State
of California or by any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the
Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any State-
administered transactions or use tax.
   B.   There are exempted from the computation of the amount of special
transactions tax the gross receipts from:
      1.   Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum
products, to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside
the County in which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of
such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property under the authority of
the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government.
      2.   Sales of property to be used outside the Town which is shipped to a
point outside the Town, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such
point by the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier
for shipment to a consignee at such point. For the purposes of this paragraph,
delivery to a point outside the Town shall be satisfied:
         a.   With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject
to registration pursuant to chapter 1 (commencing with section 4000) of
division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with section
21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels registered under
division 3.5 (commencing with section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration
to an out-of-Town address and by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed
by the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or her principal place
of residence; and
         b.   With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place
of business out-of-Town and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the
buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from that address.
      3.   The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to
furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into
prior to the operative date of this chapter.
      4.   A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of
such property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to
lease the property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date
of this chapter.
      5.   For the purposes of subsections B3 and B4 of this section, the sale
or lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated
pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to
the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or
lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.
   C.   There are exempted from the special use tax imposed by this chapter,
the storage, use or other consumption in this Town of tangible personal
property:
      1.   The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a
transactions tax under any State-administered transactions and use tax
ordinance.
      2.   Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of
aircraft and used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the
use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or
compensation under a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued
pursuant to the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign
government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in
sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of
California.
      3.   If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed
price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this
chapter.
      4.   If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over,
the tangible personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing
purchase of such property for any period of time for which the lessee is
obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the
operative date of this chapter.
      5.   For the purposes of subsections C3 and C4 of this section, storage,
use, or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power
over, tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant
to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the
contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or
lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.
      6.   Except as provided in subsection C7 of this section, a retailer
engaged in business in the Town shall not be required to collect use tax from
the purchaser of tangible personal property, unless the retailer ships or
delivers the property into the Town or participates within the Town in making
the sale of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or
receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of
the retailer in the Town or through any representative, agent, canvasser,
solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the Town under the authority of the
retailer.
      7.   "A retailer engaged in business in the Town" shall also include any
retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to
chapter 1 (commencing with section 4000) of division 3 of the Vehicle Code,
aircraft licensed in compliance with section 21411 of the Public Utilities
Code, or undocumented vessels registered under division 3.5 (commencing with
section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect
use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or
aircraft at an address in the Town.
   D.   Any person subject to use tax under this chapter may credit against
that tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a
district imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to part
1.6 of division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to
the person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of which is
subject to the use tax. (Ord. 264, 11-8-2016)
3.28.140: CHANGES IN LAW:
All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this chapter to part 1 of
division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and
which are not inconsistent with part 1.6 and part 1.7 of division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to part 1.6 and part 1.7 of
division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part
of this chapter, provided however, that no such amendment shall operate so as
to affect the rate of tax imposed by this chapter. (Ord. 264, 11-8-2016)
3.28.150: ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN:
No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall
issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the State or the
Town, or against any officer of the State or the Town, to prevent or enjoin the
collection under this chapter, or part 1.6 of division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected. (Ord.
264, 11-8-2016)
3.28.180: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This chapter levying the special tax described herein shall be effective ten
(10) days after the date on which the Town Council has declared that the voters
of the Town of Yucca Valley have approved the chapter by a vote of no less than
two-thirds (2/3) of the votes cast by the electors voting on the tax measure
set forth in this chapter at that general Municipal election to be held on
Tuesday, November 8, 2016. (Ord. 264, 11-8-2016)
3.28.190: TERMINATION DATE:
The authority to levy the special tax imposed by this chapter shall expire ten
(10) years from the operative date. (Ord. 264, 11-8-2016)
3.28.200: CITIZEN SPECIAL TAX OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE:
An Independent Citizens' Special Tax Oversight Committee appointed by the Town
Council shall review the expenditures of revenues generated by the tax imposed
by this chapter, confirm that expenditures are undertaken for the specified
purposes to which the tax proceeds are dedicated under this chapter, and make
the results of such review publicly available. Such Committee shall meet and be
subject to all provisions of the Ralph M. Brown Act, Government Code sections
54950 et seq. (Ord. 264, 11-8-2016)
3.28.210: PENALTIES:
Without limiting any remedies available at law or equity, any person violating
any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 264, 11-8-2016)
3.28.220: AMENDMENTS:
The tax rate in this chapter may only be increased by a vote of the people of
the Town of Yucca Valley; provided, however, that the Town Council may amend
this chapter to reduce the amount of the tax authorized herein or to otherwise
implement or advance the purpose and intent of this chapter. (Ord. 264, 11-8-
2016)
CHAPTER 3.30
PRIVATE LAND DEVELOPMENT REIMBURSEMENTS
SECTION:
3.30.010: Construction Of Public Improvements
3.30.020: Approval Of Land Use Development Applications And Building Permits
3.30.030: Reimbursement Of Town Funds
3.30.010: CONSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS:
The Town will be constructing various improvements in the public rights of way
throughout the Town. The Town will be expending funds for various public
improvements including streets, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, traffic signals,
street lights, street trees and other necessary public infrastructure
improvements. The improvements will be constructed which abut both undeveloped
and developed properties. (Ord. 14, 5-7-1992)
3.30.020: APPROVAL OF LAND USE DEVELOPMENT APPLICATIONS AND BUILDING PERMITS:
Where the Town has caused the construction and installation of public
improvements abutting undeveloped properties, no land use development
application or building permit shall be approved prior to the payment of costs
associated with the improvements abutting the undeveloped property. No person
shall be permitted to develop such property until such property owner has paid
to the Town the proportionate share of the costs of the public improvements;
and no application, either by petition or otherwise, shall be approved by the
Town Council, Planning Commission or Town staff for the building and/or
development of such property until the property owners to be benefitted or a
sufficient number thereof shall have paid to the Town such proportionate shares
of the costs of the public improvements. The payments shall be based upon the
property owner's proportionate share of actual costs as established by the Town
Council in compliance with applicable law, and which are retained in permanent
Town files for the public improvements abutting each individual real property,
as calculated by the Town Engineer. Such payments shall be in addition to any
fee prescribed by an ordinance or resolution of the Town. (Ord. 14, 5-7-1992)
3.30.030: REIMBURSEMENT OF TOWN FUNDS:
Any payments received from real property owners to reimburse the Town as
prescribed by this Chapter, shall be deposited into the account from which the
original construction funds were expended. The funds may be allocated from the
general fund, gas tax funds, Measure 1 funds, or any other funds as approved by
the Town Council. (Ord. 14, 5-7-1992)
CHAPTER 3.40
DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES
SECTION:
3.40.010: Purpose And Intent
3.40.020: Definitions
3.40.030: Compliance With Chapter
3.40.040: Public Infrastructure Facilities
3.40.050: Credit For Improvements Provided By Developers
3.40.060: Review And Revision Of Fees
3.40.070: Approval And Adoption Of Fee Study
3.40.080: Refund Or Reimbursement Of Fees Paid
3.40.090: Development Agreement
3.40.100: Other Authority
3.40.110: Schedule For Construction/Acquisition Of Facilities Funded With
Development Impact Fees
3.40.120: Exemptions
3.40.130: Waivers Or Reductions
3.40.140: Implementation And Enforcement
3.40.150: Severability
3.40.010: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   This chapter establishes development impact fees, consisting of each of
the fees set forth in this chapter. The development impact fee is intended to
recover from each new development its reasonable share, as determined in
accordance with Government Code section 66000 et seq., of the cost of each type
of public facility and infrastructure improvement for which a fee is
established hereunder, and needed to serve that development, to ensure
implementation of and consistency with the town's general plan and to protect
the public health, safety and welfare by ensuring that adequate public
facilities and related improvements will be constructed and made available to
serve new development concurrent with the need.
   B.   The town council has determined that the fees established by this
chapter shall be collected from applicants of development projects for the cost
of public facilities and infrastructure improvements that serve or will benefit
each development, and to reimburse the town for expenditures previously made
which benefit that development in accordance with the town's adopted
development impact fee study, as updated and readopted from time to time.
   C.   The fees imposed under this chapter are in addition to any other fees,
dedications, construction requirements or other exactions imposed as a
condition of approval for the development project, or under the provisions of
any state or federal law, other provisions of this code, or town resolutions,
ordinances, and policies.
   D.   Wherever used, terms describing types of facilities and/or
infrastructure improvements shall have the meanings given to them in the town's
general plan and/or capital improvement plan as adopted and amended from time
to time. (Ord. 173, 11-10-2005)
3.40.020: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meanings given herein. Words used in the present
tense include the future, words in the plural number include the singular
number, and the words in the singular number include the plural number. Words
not defined shall be given their common and ordinary meaning.
APPROVED PLANS: Plans approved under this code.
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM: Planning, preliminary engineering, engineering
design studies, land surveys, land or right of way acquisition, engineering,
permitting, construction and inspection of all necessary features of any
construction project.
COMMERCIAL: All those uses defined as commercial uses by the Yucca Valley
development code, as may be amended from time to time.
DEVELOPER: A person, firm, general or limited partnership, corporation, limited
liability company or other entity that excavates, fills, builds structures or
otherwise improves or changes a specific parcel or tract of land.
DEVELOPMENT: The construction, alteration, addition, occupancy or use of any
building or structure, or alteration of land, which allows a change in land
use.
DIRECTOR: The town's director of public works/engineering or other town
official that may be designated to carry out the administration of this
chapter.
DISTRICT BOUNDARY: Any street or road, which is used to describe a district
boundary.
EXISTING: At present or in effect as of the time of the adoption hereof.
FACILITY: Something that is built, installed, purchased or established to serve
a particular purpose.
FEE PAYER: A person commencing a land development activity that generates a
need for additional town facilities and requires the issuance of a building
permit or permit for mobilehome installation.
FLOOR AREA: The area included within the surrounding exterior walls of a
building or portion thereof, exclusive of any crawl space, area used
exclusively for parking or loading, breezeway, attic without floor and any open
porch, deck, balcony or terrace that is not used for commercial office or
industrial purposes. The floor area of a building or portion thereof provided
with surrounding exterior walls shall be usable area under the horizontal
projection of the roof or floor above, where such horizontal projection exists.
The town shall develop administrative procedures for determining the square
footage of any project which cannot be calculated using this definition.
INDUSTRIAL: All those uses defined as industrial uses by the Yucca Valley
development code, as may be amended from time to time.
MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLING UNIT: A building or portion thereof used and designed
as a residence of two (2) or more families living independently of each other,
with an individual kitchen for each, including duplexes, apartment houses,
apartment hotels and flats, townhouses, garden apartments, group residential
facilities and apartment buildings.
OFFICE: All those uses, defined as office or institutional uses by the Yucca
Valley development code, as may be amended from time to time.
PERSON: Any individual firm, company, association, general or limited
partnership, society, corporation, limited liability company or group, and
includes the plural as well as the singular.
SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DWELLING: A building designed exclusively for
residential occupancy for a single family, not including a hotel, motel, asylum
or jail or other facility where people are housed by reason of illness or under
legal restraint, and includes both attached and detached single-family
residential dwellings. Units within manufactured housing parks and mobilehome
parks are classified as single-family residential dwelling units.
SQUARE FOOT: Every square foot of "floor area" as defined herein. (Ord. 173,
11-10-2005)
3.40.030: COMPLIANCE WITH CHAPTER:
No development, property owner, or other person or entity shall be eligible to
receive building permits, or any occupancy permits, for any development project
unless the provisions of this chapter have first been complied with for that
project. The requirements of this chapter are hereby imposed as a condition of
development approval for each development project in addition to being a
requirement of this code. The town may impose such additional conditions of
approval as are necessary or appropriate to implement the purposes of this
chapter, including, but not limited to, reimbursement agreements for
constructed improvements in accordance with town policies and procedures. (Ord.
173, 11-10-2005)
3.40.040: PUBLIC INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITIES:
General facility, park facility, trail facility, storm drain facility, and
street and traffic facility development impact fees shall be paid by applicants
for development projects as set forth in this chapter and in the amounts
adopted by the town council by resolution from time to time. No building
permit, or occupancy permit, shall be issued for any new development project
unless the fees specified in this chapter as adopted by resolution of the town
council are paid. Fees collected pursuant to this chapter shall be deposited
into a separate fund and used only for the purpose of acquiring, designing,
constructing, improving, providing and maintaining, to the extent permitted by
law, the general facilities provided for in the study and the plans as adopted
and amended from time to time by the town council. (Ord. 173, 11-10-2005)
3.40.050: CREDIT FOR IMPROVEMENTS PROVIDED BY DEVELOPERS:
Credit against a development impact fee may be given for qualifying facilities
and improvements constructed as part of each development project in accordance
with town policies and procedures. The applicant shall be responsible for
providing sufficient evidence of the eligibility and cost of such facilities
and improvements to the satisfaction of the town engineer/public works
director, who will determine whether the evidence is satisfactory to render a
fee credit, and will determine the amount of fee credit, which shall not exceed
the projected cost of such facilities and improvements for purposes of
establishing the affected impact fee. (Ord. 173, 11-10-2005)
3.40.060: REVIEW AND REVISION OF FEES:
   A.   The amount of any development impact fee may be amended annually or
from time to time by a resolution of the town council in accordance with the
procedures and based upon the findings set forth in Government Code section
66000 et seq., for such fees. The town council may authorize by resolution
annual adjustments to the impact fees to account for escalation in construction
costs, based upon the figures published in the "Engineering News Record"
building cost index - twenty (20) cities annual average. Land costs may be
evaluated annually and adjusted as necessary based upon the current market
conditions at the time.
   B.   1. Within one hundred eighty (180) days following the last day of each
fiscal year, the town engineer/public works director shall prepare for the town
council and make available to the public an activity report covering the
previous fiscal year identifying the current fee amount charged, the beginning
and ending balance of fees in each trust account, the amount of fees collected
and the interest earned, an identification of each public improvement on which
fees were expended, the capital facilities to be constructed and the
identification of an approximate date by which the construction of each
facility to be constructed will commence if the town engineer/public works
director determines that sufficient funds have been collected to complete
financing of public improvement, that are incomplete or not yet commenced. In
preparing the report, the town engineer/public works director shall adjust the
estimated costs of the public improvements in accordance with the engineering
construction cost index as published by "Engineering News Record" for the
elapsed time period from the previous July 1 or the date the cost estimate was
developed.
      2.   The town council shall review the report at a noticed public hearing
held not earlier than fifteen (15) days after the report is made available to
the public. Within five (5) years following the adoption of any impact fee
authorized by this chapter, and every five (5) years thereafter, the town
council shall make the findings required by Government Code section 66001 for
all development impact fees authorized by this chapter. At any time, the town
council may revise the development impact fee program to include additional
projects not foreseen as being needed, provided that the appropriate findings
required by the mitigation fee act and other appropriate state law are made.
      3.   In addition to the procedures identified in this section, the
development impact fees and studies shall be comprehensively updated and
adopted by ordinance or resolution after a noticed public hearing: a) in
conjunction with or following a comprehensive general plan update; b) when the
town council determines that growth has occurred at rates significantly above
the estimates set forth in the general plan such that additional or different
fees and facilities are needed; or c) when otherwise directed by the town
council. (Ord. 173, 11-10-2005)
3.40.070: APPROVAL AND ADOPTION OF FEE STUDY:
   A.   The town council hereby adopts the public facilities development impact
fee study prepared by MuniFinancial, dated May 2, 2005, and the associated fees
at the following levels indicated in subsection B of this section. Actual fees
imposed by the town council shall be established by separate resolution of the
town council. (Ord. 173, 11-10-2005)
   B.   The maximum fees that may be adopted by resolution of the town council
shall be in accordance with the following maximum legally defensible fee
levels:
 
Single-family residential development    $9,081.00 per unit
Multi-family residential development     6,352.00 per unit
Commercial development                   7,735.00 per 1,000 square feet
Office development                       7,038.00 per 1,000 square feet
Industrial development                   3,176.00 per 1,000 square feet
 
(Ord. 217, 10-19-2010)
3.40.080: REFUND OR REIMBURSEMENT OF FEES PAID:
   A.   If a building permit for a project expires without commencement of
construction, then the fee payer shall be entitled to a refund, without
interest, of the development impact fee paid as a condition for its issuance,
except that the town shall retain a reasonable amount, not less than thirty
dollars ($30.00) nor more than five percent (5%) of the fee paid to offset a
portion of the costs of collection, monitoring, and refund. The fee payer must
submit an application for such a refund to the director within thirty (30)
calendar days after the expiration of the permit.
   B.   Any funds not expended, encumbered, or scheduled pursuant to Government
Code section 66001 by the end of the fiscal year immediately following five (5)
years from the date the impact fee was paid (and for which the findings
required by Government Code section 66001(d) are not made pursuant to
Government Code section 66006) shall, upon application of the then current
landowner, be returned to such landowner with interest earned during the five
(5) year period; provided that the landowner submits an application for refund
to the town within one hundred eighty (180) calendar days of the expiration of
the five (5) year period.
   C.   Except as provided in subsection B of this section, the town shall
refund to the current record owner on a prorated basis the unexpended or
uncommitted portion of the fees, and any interest accrued thereon, for which a
need cannot be established. (Ord. 173, 11-10-2005)
3.40.090: DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT:
Pursuant to Government Code 65864 et seq., the town may enter into a
development agreement with a developer, which includes provisions for
reimbursement of the developer over time for the cost of financing public
facilities. In the event a development agreement is entered into providing for
such reimbursement in accord with applicable statutory/terms, no additional
reimbursement shall be due or payable to any developer for construction of
public improvements required by this chapter. (Ord. 173, 11-10-2005)
3.40.100: OTHER AUTHORITY:
   A.   This chapter is intended to establish a supplemental method for funding
the costs of certain public facilities, services and infrastructure, the demand
for which is reasonably related to and thereby reasonably resulting from the
level and type of new development proposed in the town general plan.
   B.   The provisions of this chapter shall not be construed to limit the
power of the town council to impose any other fees or exaction or to continue
to impose existing obligations on the right to development within the town, but
shall be in addition to any other requirements which the town council is
authorized to impose, or has previously imposed, as a condition of approving a
plan, a development, rezoning, or other entitlement. In particular, individual
property owners shall remain obligated to fund, construct, and/or dedicate the
improvements, public facilities, and other exactions required by, but not
limited to, town codes, public improvement design standards, and other
applicable documents, and to mitigate environmental impacts caused by
development pursuant to the California environmental quality act.
   C.   The town council may adopt a special benefit zone for the purpose of
assessing a development impact fee when it finds that a townwide development
impact fee is not sufficient to meet the needs for new public facilities in a
localized area of the town. Any such change, as an additional development
impact fee, must comply with the applicable provision of the state mitigation
fee act, beginning with Government Code section 66000. The resolution or
ordinance adopting the development impact fee within a special benefit zone
shall include the method of calculation or formula for determining the amount
of credit to be applied to the applicable townwide development impact fee, or
provide that the fee shall be in addition to the applicable townwide
development impact fee, without any credit or offset. (Ord. 173, 11-10-2005)
3.40.110: SCHEDULE FOR CONSTRUCTION/ACQUISITION OF FACILITIES FUNDED WITH
DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES:
   A.   The town shall have twelve (12) months from the effective date hereof
to establish a schedule for the construction and/or acquisition of facilities
identified in the study. Except for facilities specifically approved for
construction by a developer, all facilities shall be constructed in accordance
with the annual review of the fee programs and further, as specifically
approved annually by the town council as part of its budget, fee review, or
capital improvement plan. The requirements of this section are in addition to
the requirements of the state mitigation fee act, Government Code sections
66001 and 66005. (Ord. 173, 11-10-2005)
3.40.120: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   The following uses are exempt from the payment of development impact
fees:
      1.   Any addition of enclosed building space to a single-family dwelling
shall be exempt from the development impact fees if the proposed addition will
not change the character of the building as a single-family dwelling.
      2.   Whenever enclosed building space is demolished, any construction of
enclosed building space which takes place on the same parcel within five (5)
years of that demolition, accomplished under proper and authorized town
building permits, shall be exempt from development impact fees to the extent of
the number of square feet removed from the parcel as a result of said
demolition work to the preexisting structure.
      3.   Low income residential housing, as defined by state redevelopment
law, when low income housing restrictions have been approved by the Yucca
Valley town council/Yucca Valley redevelopment agency and necessary agreements
entered into.
      4.   Government and public buildings.
      5.   The rehabilitation and/or reconstruction of any nonresidential
structure where there is no net increase in square footage. Any increase in
square footage shall require the payment of the current applicable rate for the
new floor area only.
      6.   Residential units that have been issued a building permit prior to
the effective date of this chapter.
      7.   Nonresidential projects that have been issued a building permit
prior to the effective date of this chapter.
      8.   Vesting tentative maps which have been approved, conditionally
approved, or for which an application has been determined by the town to be
complete prior to the effective date of this chapter.
   B.   Any claim of exemption must be made no later than the time of
application for a building permit. Any claim not so made shall be deemed
waived. (Ord. 173, 11-10-2005)
3.40.130: WAIVERS OR REDUCTIONS:
There may also be those circumstances where the town desires to defer, waive or
reduce development impact fees upon a project because: a) a development project
will provide a general benefit to the health, safety and welfare of the
citizens of the town of Yucca Valley, b) other properties to be benefited by
any development impact fee will not be unfairly burdened by the delay,
reduction or waiver of said development impact fee, or c) the deferral, waiver
or reduction in development impact fees will result in a fairer funding
arrangement, and absent a waiver or reduction, the owner would receive
insufficient or no benefit from the development impact fee imposed and would
therefore be required, if the development impact fee were imposed in full, to
pay more than his fair share for the benefit received. Therefore, upon making
such findings, the town desires to empower the town manager to negotiate
agreements to defer, waive or reduce development impact fees upon specific
projects subject to acceptance of the required finding(s) and approval of such
agreement by the town council. (Ord. 173, 11-10-2005)
3.40.140: IMPLEMENTATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   The town council hereby authorizes the town manager to adopt any
administrative procedures necessary to carry out the intent of this chapter. In
addition, the town council may adopt by resolution any administrative
procedures necessary to carry out the intent of this chapter.
   B.   All charges relating to development impact fees applicable to any
project provided for in this chapter shall be deemed a debt owing to the town.
Any building permit applicant or person subject to development impact fees,
without first having paid all applicable charges in full, or otherwise
violating a provision of this chapter, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   C.   A violation of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor and prosecuted in
the same manner as misdemeanors are prosecuted; under this code and upon
conviction, the violator shall be punishable according to law. However, in
addition to or in lieu of any criminal prosecution, the town shall have the
power to sue in civil court to enforce the provisions of this chapter. (Ord.
173, 11-10-2005)
3.40.150: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase
in this chapter or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this chapter or any part thereof. The town council
declares that it would have passed each section, subsection, subdivision,
paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any
one or more subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or
phrases be declared unconstitutional or invalid, or ineffective. (Ord. 173, 11-
10-2005)
TITLE 4
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 4.02
BOARD AND COMMISSION MEMBERS
(Rep. by Ord. 248, 5-6-2014)
CHAPTER 4.04
PLANNING COMMISSION
SECTION:
4.04.010: Planning Commission Created
4.04.020: Officers; Staff
4.04.030: Membership
4.04.040: Meetings; Rules
4.04.050: Functions, Powers And Duties
4.04.060: Appeal Planning Commission Decisions
4.04.010: PLANNING COMMISSION CREATED:
There is created a Planning Commission for the Town. It shall consist of five
(5) members, appointed by the Town Council. The terms and appointments of
members to the Planning Commission shall be as set forth in the Procedures
Manual. (Ord. 248, 5-6-2014)
4.04.020: OFFICERS; STAFF:
The designation and duties of the Chairperson and Vice Chairperson shall be as
set forth in the Procedures Manual. The commission shall be authorized to
appoint and fix the membership of such number of standing and temporary
committees as it may find expedient for the performance of its duties.
Effective January 1, 2018, Town Planning Commission members shall each receive
one hundred dollars ($100.00) per month in compensation, with no automatic
future increases absent amendment of this section. The Town Manager may appoint
an Executive Secretary and other staff. (Ord. 272, 10-17-2017)
4.04.030: MEMBERSHIP:
Should any vacancy occur among the members of the Planning Commission other
than by expiration, the Chairperson shall forward a notice to the Mayor and
members of the Town Council indicating that such a vacancy exists. The Town
Council shall fill the vacancy in accordance with the provisions of the
Procedures Manual. (Ord. 248, 5-6-2014)
4.04.040: MEETINGS; RULES:
The meetings and rules of the Planning Commission shall be as set forth in the
Procedures Manual. (Ord. 248, 5-6-2014)
4.04.050: FUNCTIONS, POWERS AND DUTIES:
The functions, powers and duties of the Planning Commission shall be all those
functions, powers and duties of a Planning Commission and Board of Zoning
Adjustment as provided in the State Planning and Zoning Law 1 . The Planning
Commission shall perform all functions and take all actions designated in the
Development Code of the County of San Bernardino, which has been adopted by the
Town, for the Planning Commission and the Planning Commission Subcommittee. It
is also recognized that the Town Council takes final action upon the adoption
or amendment to the General Plan, or any specific plan, and upon any change of
zoning district, approval of any tentative tract map and where otherwise
required by law. (Ord. 25, 10-1-1992)
 
Notes
1 1. GOV ch. 3 and 4 of tit. 7 commencing with § 65100.
4.04.060: APPEAL PLANNING COMMISSION DECISIONS:
All actions of the Planning Commission are subject to appeal to the Town
Council in the manner set forth in the Development Code, and if not otherwise
set forth, then by delivery by the applicant or other person affected by the
decision of a written notice of appeal to the Town Clerk within ten (10) days
after the decision of the Planning Commission or after the giving of notice of
same where notice is required. Within a period of ten (10) days after the
decision of the Planning Commission, any member of the Town Council may submit
a written request with the Town Clerk that the matter acted upon by the
Planning Commission be scheduled for a hearing before the Town Council. The
decision of the Planning Commission shall be final after the time for appeal or
for a request for hearing by a Council member has passed and if no appeal
request has been filed. Upon receipt of a timely appeal, or of a timely request
by a Council member, the Town Clerk shall schedule the matter for a hearing or
public hearing before the Town Council, in which case the decision of the Town
Council, after considering or hearing the matter, shall then be final. (Ord.
76, 7-18-1996)
CHAPTER 4.10
PARKS, RECREATION AND CULTURAL COMMISSION
SECTION:
4.10.010: Commission Created
4.10.020: Qualification Of Members
4.10.030: Terms Of Office And Vacancies
4.10.040: Appointment Of Commissioners
4.10.050: Organization
4.10.060: Attendance
4.10.070: Secretary; Record Minutes
4.10.080: Duties And Responsibilities
4.10.090: Meetings
4.10.010: COMMISSION CREATED:
There is hereby created a Parks, Recreation and Cultural Commission composed of
five (5) members. (Ord. 104, 5-6-1999)
4.10.020: QUALIFICATION OF MEMBERS:
Commission members shall be qualified electors of the Town. Effective January
1, 2018, commission members shall each receive fifty dollars ($50.00) per month
in compensation. The members of the commission shall include five (5) members
of the public who shall hold no other public office in the Town. (Ord. 272, 10-
17-2017)
4.10.030: TERMS OF OFFICE AND VACANCIES:
The terms of office and vacancies of the Parks, Recreation and Cultural
Commission shall be as set forth in the Procedures Manual. (Ord. 248, 5-6-2014)
4.10.040: APPOINTMENT OF COMMISSIONERS:
The appointments of members to the Parks, Recreation and Cultural Commission
shall be as set forth in the Procedures Manual. (Ord. 248, 5-6-2014)
4.10.050: ORGANIZATION:
The designation and duties of the Chairperson and Vice Chairperson of the
Parks, Recreation and Cultural Commission shall be as set forth in the
Procedures Manual. (Ord. 248, 5-6-2014)
4.10.060: ATTENDANCE:
Members of the commission are expected to attend all scheduled meetings of the
commission. Absence of a member from three (3) consecutive regular meetings, or
from twenty five percent (25%) of the duly scheduled meetings within any fiscal
year, without prior consent of the Chairperson as noted in the commission's
official minutes, constitutes the voluntary resignation of such member and the
position shall be declared vacant. (Ord. 104, 5-6-1999; amd. 2000 Code)
4.10.070: SECRETARY; RECORD MINUTES:
The Town Manager shall appoint a Secretary to maintain accurate minutes of the
activities and official actions of the commission. (Ord. 104, 5-6-1999)
4.10.080: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
The duties and responsibilities of the commission shall be to:
   A.   Act in an advisory capacity to the Town Council and other appropriate
agencies in matters pertaining to the planning of public recreation and the
development of open space, parks, playgrounds, play fields and recreational
facilities; and the provision of programs related to community wide leisure
services, senior services, museum, events and special projects;
   B.   Review all recommendations relative to community services activities
within the Town. To cooperate with other governmental agencies and civic groups
in providing a broad range of services and events to the community;
   C.   Formulate policies on community services for approval by the Town
Council to include long range facilities improvement;
   D.   Assist in coordinating community services with the programs of
government agencies and voluntary organizations;
   E.   Make recommendations to the Town Manager regarding the annual community
services and facilities budgets;
   F.   Recommend rules and regulations governing the use of facilities and
recreation areas consistent with ordinances of the Town; and
   G.   Recommend to the Town Council the establishment of fees and charges to
be paid for the use of Town facilities and for participation in Town programs,
events and special projects. (Ord. 104, 5-6-1999)
4.10.090: MEETINGS:
The Parks, Recreation and Cultural Commission shall hold at least one regular
meeting a month at such time and place within the Town as the commission may
determine. The procedures for commission meetings shall be as set forth in the
Procedures Manual. (Ord. 248, 5-6-2014)
CHAPTER 4.11
PUBLIC ARTS ADVISORY COMMITTEE
(Rep. by Ord. 223, 3-1-2011)
CHAPTER 4.12
YOUTH COMMISSION
SECTION:
4.12.010: Commission Created
4.12.020: Powers And Duties
4.12.030: Chairperson, Committees And Staff
4.12.040: Meetings And Rules Of Procedure
4.12.010: COMMISSION CREATED:
   A.   There is hereby created a youth commission for the town, comprised of a
minimum of five (5) members and a maximum of twenty (20) members. All
commission members shall be full time students attending either a junior high
or high school. Members of the commission shall serve without compensation.
   B.   The members of the commission shall be appointed by and continue in
office subject to the pleasure of the town council. Each member shall serve a
term concurrent with the school calendar from October through June, except that
upon dissolution of the commission, or otherwise by action of the town council,
all appointments shall terminate as of the effective date of such dissolution.
The members of the youth commission shall not be limited in the number of terms
they may serve. (Ord. 167, 5-12-2005; amd. Ord. 209, 5-4-2010; Ord. 290, 1-19-
2021)
4.12.020: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   The commission shall have the general power and duty to act in an
advisory capacity to the town council in matters pertaining to the activities
and programs of and for youth in and around the town.
   B.   In addition to the foregoing general power and duty, the commission
shall have the following particular powers and duties:
      1.   To assist the town council or its designee in ascertaining community
attitudes and issues, and in invoking public awareness and involvement in youth
activities.
      2.   To make recommendations to the town council or its designee
regarding the development of youth programs, activities and facilities.
      3.   To hold such meetings as may be deemed required by the commission or
directed by the town council or its designee regarding implementation of the
general and specific duties of the commission.
      4.   To acquire and distribute to the public informational materials
relating to youth programs, activities and facilities.
      5.   Subject to the town council's or its designee's approval in each
instance, to solicit and accept grants and donations to the town in aid of
carrying out the general and specific duties of the commission.
      6.   To carry out the work plan for that term set forth by staff and the
youth commission, a copy of which is on file in the community services
department and incorporated herein by this reference.
      7.   To carry out such other functions as may be assigned to the
commission by the town council or its designee. (Ord. 167, 5-12-2005)
4.12.030: CHAIRPERSON, COMMITTEES AND STAFF:
Designation of a chairperson and vice chairperson for the commission shall be
governed by the procedures manual. The commission may establish such standing
and temporary subcommittees as it may deem expedient for the performance of its
duties, and the chairperson, with the consent of the commission, may fix and
appoint the membership of such subcommittees. Except that the chairperson of
each such subcommittee shall be a member of the commission, membership on a
subcommittee need not be limited to members of the commission. The town manager
may appoint a secretary and other staff for the commission and provide such
reimbursement for their necessary expenses as may be authorized by the town
council or its designee in the budget and approved in advance by the town
manager. (Ord. 248, 5-6-2014)
4.12.040: MEETINGS AND RULES OF PROCEDURE:
The commission shall hold one or more regular monthly meetings and designate
the times, dates and places therefor. The procedures for commission meetings
shall be as set forth in the procedures manual. (Ord. 248, 5-6-2014)
CHAPTER 4.14
REVENUE MEASURE OVERSIGHT COMMISSION
SECTION:
4.14.010: Revenue Measure Commission Created
4.14.020: Term; Vacancies; Vote
4.14.030: Officers
4.14.040: Membership
4.14.050: Meetings; Rules Of Procedure
4.14.060: Powers And Duties Of The Commission
4.14.010: REVENUE MEASURE COMMISSION CREATED:
There is created a Revenue Measure Oversight Commission consisting of seven (7)
members, appointed by the Town Council to serve at the pleasure of the Town
Council. (Ord. 265, 2-7-2017)
4.14.020: TERM; VACANCIES; VOTE:
   A.   Members of the Commission shall serve the term provided by the Town's
Manual of Procedural Guidelines, except that in order to ensure a stagger of
appointees, the initial appointments shall be for staggered terms as determined
by the Town Clerk.
   B.   A vacancy in the Commission shall not impair the right of the remaining
members to exercise the powers of the Commission pursuant to this chapter. Four
(4) members shall constitute a quorum of the Commission and any ruling,
decision or other action of the Commission may be taken by a majority of those
members present, provided a quorum is present. (Ord. 265, 2-7-2017)
4.14.030: OFFICERS:
The Commission, at its organization meeting and as needed thereafter, shall
elect from its membership a Chair and Vice- Chair. The Chair and Vice-Chair
shall have and perform such duties as commonly associated with the respective
titles and specific adherence to the Town's Manual of Procedural Guidelines.
The Town Manager may appoint a secretary and other staff and provide such
compensation for their services as may be authorized by the Town Council and by
the annual Town budget of expenditures. (Ord. 265, 2-7-2017)
4.14.040: MEMBERSHIP:
Should any vacancy occur among the members of the Commission other than by
expiration, the Chairperson shall forward a notice to the Mayor and members of
the Town Council indicating that such a vacancy exists. The Town Council shall
fill the vacancy in accordance with the provisions of the Manual for Procedural
Guidelines. (Ord. 265, 2-7-2017)
4.14.050: MEETINGS; RULES OF PROCEDURE:
The Commission shall meet at least twice annually at such place and time as
shall be fixed by the Commission by its standing rules. A majority of the
existing appointed members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business. In matters relating to the holding of regular and
special meetings, the Commission and any standing committee of the Commission,
is bound by the provisions of the Ralph M. Brown Act of the State of California
(sections 54950, et. seq., California Government Code). (Ord. 265, 2-7-2017)
4.14.060: POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE COMMISSION:
   A.   Within the limitations provided by law, the Revenue Measure Oversight
Commission shall review the projected revenues and recommended expenditures for
the funds generated by title 3,
chapters 3.26 and/or 3.28 of this Code and shall make recommendations to the
Town Council as a part of the Town's annual budget process. The Commission
shall have the following powers and duties:
      1.   Establish a schedule of regular meeting times.
      2.   Make recommendations to the Town Council regarding:
         a.   Programs and projects proposed to be funded in whole or in part
by Measure "Y" and/or Measure "Z" revenues;
         b.   Oversee and monitor expenditures of all Measure "Y" and/or
Measure "Z" funds, after the Town Council has approved any program or project
with Measure "Y" and/or Measure "Z" funds;
         c.   Review the annual independent audit of revenues received by and
expenditures from Measure "Y" and/or Measure "Z" funds prior to the audit's
presentation to the Council;
         d.   Review the Finance Manager's estimate of Measure "Y" revenues for
each fiscal year prior to the Council adoption of the annual General Fund
budget;
         e.   Review the Finance Manager's estimate of Measure "Z" revenues for
each fiscal year prior to the Council adoption of the Special Fund budget.
      3.   Perform such other duties as the Town Council may assign. (Ord. 265,
2-7-2017)
TITLE 5
BUSINESSES AND LICENSES
CHAPTER 5.10
MASSAGE SERVICES AND ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
5.10.010: Purpose And Intent
5.10.020: Definitions
5.10.030: Permit Requirements
5.10.040: Exemptions
5.10.050: Application For Massage Permit
5.10.060: Massage Establishment Standards
5.10.070: Outcall Massage Endorsement
5.10.080: Posting License
5.10.090: Register Of Employees
5.10.100: Denial Of Massage Permit
5.10.110: Revocation Of Massage Permit
5.10.120: Employment Of Massagist
5.10.130: Inspection Required
5.10.140: Unlawful Acts
5.10.150: Appeals
5.10.160: Penalties
5.10.010: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
It is the purpose and intent of this Chapter to provide for the orderly
regulation of massage services and establishments in the Town by establishing
certain minimum standards for the education and conduct of this type of
business which will protect the public health and welfare of the citizens of
the Town. (Ord. 96, 11-5-1998)
5.10.020: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
HEALTH DEPARTMENT: The Department of Public Health of the County of San
Bernardino.
MASSAGE: Any method of pressure on or friction against, or stroking, kneading,
rubbing, tapping, pounding, vibrating or stimulating of the external parts of
the human body with the hands or with the aid of any mechanical or electrical
apparatus or appliances with or without such supplementary aids as rubbing
alcohol, liniments, antiseptics, oils, powder, creams, lotions, ointment or
other such similar preparations commonly used in the practice of massage, under
such circumstances that it is reasonably expected that the person to whom the
treatment is provided or some third person on his behalf will pay money or give
any other consideration or any gratuity therefor.
MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT: Any establishment having a source of income or
compensation derived from the practice of "massage" as defined in this Section,
and which has a fixed place of business where any person, firm, association or
corporation engages in or carries on any of the activities as defined in the
definition of massage in this Section.
MASSAGIST: Any person who, for any consideration whatsoever, engages in the
practice of "massage" as defined in this Section.
OUTCALL MASSAGE SERVICE: Any business, the function of which is to engage in or
carry on massages at a location designated by the customer or client rather
than a "massage establishment" as defined in this Section.
PATRON: Any person who receives a massage under such circumstances that it is
reasonably expected that he will pay money or give any other consideration
therefor.
PERMITTEE: The person to whom a permit has been issued to act in the capacity
of a "massagist" (masseur or masseuse) as herein defined.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, firm, association, joint stock company,
limited liability company, corporation or combination of individuals of
whatever form or character.
RECOGNIZED SCHOOL: Any school or educational institution licensed to do
business as a school or educational institution in the state in which it is
located, or any school recognized by or approved by or affiliated with the
American Massage Therapy Association, Inc., or by a professional association of
similar status which has for its purpose, the teaching of the theory, method,
profession or work of massage, which school requires a resident course of study
of not less than one hundred (100) hours before the student shall be furnished
with a diploma or certificate of graduation from such school or institution of
learning following the successful completion of such course of study or
learning.
SEXUAL OR GENITAL AREA: The genitals, pubic area, anus, or perineum of any
person, or the vulva or breast of a female. (Ord. 96, 11-5-1998)
5.10.030: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
No person shall practice massage as a massagist, employee or otherwise within
the Town, unless that person has a valid massagist's permit issued by the Town
pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter. (Ord. 96, 11-5-1998)
5.10.040: EXEMPTIONS:
This Chapter shall not apply to the following individuals while engaged in the
personal performance of the duties of their respective professions:
   A.   Physicians, surgeons, chiropractors, osteopaths or physical therapists
who are duly licensed to practice their respective professions in the State;
   B.   Nurses who are registered under the laws of the State; and
   C.   Barbers, beauticians, manicurists and pedicurists who are duly licensed
under the laws of the State, except that this exemption shall apply solely to
the massaging of the neck, face, scalp, hair, hands or feet of the customer or
client for cosmetic or beautifying purposes.
   D.   Any State registered athletic trainer who administers such athletic-
related massage in the normal course of training duties. (Ord. 96, 11-5-1998)
5.10.050: APPLICATION FOR MASSAGE PERMIT:
Application for a massage permit shall be made to the Town's Community
Development Department accompanied by the annual nonrefundable massage permit
fee in such amount as established by resolution of the Town Council. The
application shall contain the following:
   A.   The name, business address and all telephone numbers of the massage
establishments where the massage is to be practiced;
   B.   Name and residence address, and all names, nicknames and aliases by
which the applicant has been known, including the two (2) previous addresses
immediately prior to the present address of the applicant;
   C.   Social security number, driver's license number, if any, and date of
birth;
   D.   Applicant's weight, height, color of hair and eyes and sex;
   E.   Written evidence that the applicant is at least eighteen (18) years of
age;
   F.   A complete statement of all convictions of the applicant for any
felonies, misdemeanors or violations of a local ordinance, except misdemeanor
traffic violations, and full statement of disposition of all such actions;
   G.   Fingerprints of the applicant taken within thirty (30) days of the
submittal by the Police Department;
   H.   Two (2) front face portrait photographs taken within thirty (30) days
of the date of application and at least two inches by two inches (2" x 2") in
size;
   I.   The name and address of the recognized school attended, the dates
attended and a copy of the diploma or certificate of graduation awarded the
applicant:
      1.   A person who is employed as a massagist in the Town on the day this
chapter goes into effect or has been so employed for three (3) of the previous
six (6) months and who has not graduated from a recognized school, may apply
for a temporary permit which shall be valid for six (6) months from the day
this chapter goes into effect. The temporary permit may be extended for an
additional six (6) months upon a showing that the applicant is actively
engaged, enrolled or participating in a course of study leading to graduation
at a recognized school. In no event shall any temporary permit be valid after
one (1) year after this chapter goes into effect; certification as a massage
therapist (MST) or registered massage therapist (RMT) shall serve in lieu of
education;
      2.   Employment shall be established by sworn affidavit from the
employer. School enrollment shall be certified by an official of the recognized
school;
   J.   The massage or similar business history and experience for the ten (10)
years prior to the date of application, including, but not limited to, whether
or not such person previously operating in this or another City or State under
license or permit has had such license or permit denied, revoked or suspended
and the reasons therefor, and the business activities or occupations subsequent
to such action of denial, suspension or revocation;
   K.   The names, current addresses and written statements of at least five
(5) bona fide permanent residents of the United States, other than relatives,
that the applicant is of good moral character. If the applicant is able, the
statement must first be furnished from residents of the Town, then the County,
then the State, and lastly from the rest of the United States;
   L.   A medical certificate signed by a physician, licensed to practice in
the State, within seven (7) days of the date of application. The certificate
shall state that the applicant was examined by the certifying physician and
that the applicant is free of communicable disease. The additional information
required by this division shall be provided at the applicant's expense;
   M.   Such other information, identification and physical examination of the
person deemed necessary by the Community Development Director in order to
discover the truth of the matters herein required to be set forth in the
application;
   N.   Authorization for the Town, its agents and employees and such other
enforcement agencies as may be necessary to seek information and conduct an
investigation into the truth of the statements set forth in the application and
the qualifications of the applicant for the permit.
The Town may request the San Bernardino County Department of Health to conduct
some or all of the inspections or investigations required herein. The
Department of Health is authorized to bill and collect from the applicant
reasonable fees for such services and the applicant shall show evidence that
such fees have been paid before a license or permit is issued hereunder;
   O.   Written declaration by the applicant, under penalty of perjury, that
the foregoing information contained in the application is true and correct,
such declaration being duly dated and signed in the Town. (Ord. 96, 11-5-1998)
5.10.060: MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT STANDARDS:
No license to conduct a massage establishment shall be issued unless the
following standards can be met:
   A.   A readable sign shall be posted at the main entrance identifying the
establishment as a massage establishment, provided; however, that all such
signs comply with the sign ordinance.
   B.   Minimum lighting shall be provided in accordance with the Building Code
1 . In addition, at least one (1) unobstructed artificial light of not less
than forty (40) watts shall be provided and used at all times in each enclosed
room or booth while massage services are being rendered.
   C.   Minimum ventilation shall be provided in accordance with the Building
Code.
   D.   Instruments used for massage shall be disinfected prior to each use by
a reasonable method approved by the San Bernardino Department of Environmental
Health. Where such instruments for massage are employed, adequate quantities of
supplies for disinfection shall be available during all hours of operation.
   E.   Hot and cold running water shall be provided.
   F.   Closed cabinets shall be utilized for the storage of clean towels and
linen. After use, towels and linens shall be removed from the room or booth and
stored in a clean container until laundered.
   G.   Dressing and toilet facilities shall be provided for patrons.
   H.   All walls, ceilings, floors, steam or vapor rooms and all other
physical facilities for the massage establishment shall be kept in good repair,
maintained in a clean and sanitary condition.
   I.   Clean and sanitary towels and linens shall be provided for patrons
receiving massage services. No common use of towels or linens shall be
permitted. (Ord. 96, 11-5-1998)
 
Notes
1 1. See
  chapter 8.02 of this Code.
5.10.070: OUTCALL MASSAGE ENDORSEMENT:
A massage permit may be endorsed to authorize a permittee to perform outcall
massage if, in addition to meeting all the requirements of subsections
5.10.050B through O of this Chapter, the massagist:
   A.   Has completed a course of instruction of not less than five hundred
(500) hours, conducted at a school recognized, approved or accredited by the
American Massage Therapy Association or by a professional association of
similar stature; and
   B.   Is currently certified as a massage therapist (MST) or a registered
massage therapist (RMT) by the American Massage Therapy Association or has an
equivalent certification. (Ord. 96, 11-5-1998)
5.10.080: POSTING LICENSE:
Every massagist shall post the permit required by this Chapter in his work
area. (Ord. 96, 11-5-1998)
5.10.090: REGISTER OF EMPLOYEES:
The licensee or person designated by the licensee of a massage establishment
shall maintain a register of all persons employed at any time as massagists and
their permit numbers. Such register shall be available at the massage
establishment to representatives of the Town during regular business hours.
(Ord. 96, 11-5-1998)
5.10.100: DENIAL OF MASSAGE PERMIT:
The Community Development Director may deny any permit applied for if he
determines any of the following:
   A.   The permit applicant does not have sufficient massage training or has
otherwise failed to fully comply with the application requirements of this
Chapter;
   B.   The business proposed to be conducted would not or does not comply with
all applicable laws, including, but not limited to, the Town's building,
zoning, nuisance and health regulations; or
   C.   The permit applicant:
      1.   Has knowingly attempted to procure the permit by false statements,
representations or nondisclosure of a material fact when such fact would have
been considered good cause for denying the application for such permit; or
      2.   Has been convicted of any offense listed in California Government
Code section 51032 as a permissible basis for denying a permit. (Ord. 96, 11-5-
1998)
5.10.110: REVOCATION OF MASSAGE PERMIT:
A massage permit issued by the Town may be revoked by the Community Development
Department upon a finding that the massagist has been convicted of any offense
which would be cause for denial of a permit upon an original application, or
the massagist has made a false statement on an application for a permit, or the
massagist has committed an act in violation of this Chapter. Such proceedings
shall be a duly noticed public hearing conducted by the Community Development
Director. (Ord. 96, 11-5-1998)
5.10.120: EMPLOYMENT OF MASSAGIST:
No person shall employ an individual as a massagist unless such employee has
obtained and has in effect a massage permit issued pursuant to this Chapter.
(Ord. 96, 11-5-1998)
5.10.130: INSPECTION REQUIRED:
The Chief of Police or his authorized representative shall, from time to time,
make inspection of each massage business establishment for the purpose of
determining that the provisions of this Chapter are fully complied with. It
shall be unlawful for any person to fail to allow such inspection officer
access to the premises or hinder such officer in any manner. Health Department
representatives are deemed authorized representatives of the Chief of Police.
(Ord. 96, 11-5-1998)
5.10.140: UNLAWFUL ACTS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any massagist to place his hand or hands upon,
to touch with any part of his body, to fondle in any manner, or to massage a
sexual or genital part of any other person. Sexual or genital parts shall
include the genitals, pubic area, anus or perineum of any person, or the vulva
or breast of a female.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any massagist to expose his sexual or genital
parts, or any portion thereof, to any other person. It shall also be unlawful
for any massagist or employee, in a massage establishment, to expose the sexual
or genital parts, or any portions thereof, of any other person.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any massagist, while in the presence of any
other person, to fail to conceal with a fully opaque covering, the sexual or
genital parts of his body.
   D.   It shall be further unlawful for any permittee under this Chapter to
administer massage on an outcall basis, as defined in Section
5.10.020 of this Chapter, unless such permittee's massage permit includes a
valid, current outcall massage endorsement. A massagist whose permit does not
include an outcall massage endorsement shall administer massage solely within
an establishment licensed to carry on such business under this Chapter. Any
violation of these provisions shall be deemed grounds for revocation of the
permit granted hereunder. (Ord. 96, 11-5-1998)
5.10.150: APPEALS:
Any affected person may appeal a decision of the Community Development Director
to the Town Council. Appeals shall be filed with the Community Development
Department within ten (10) days following the date of the action appealed. Upon
receipt of the notice of appeal, the Director of Community Development shall
schedule the matter on the next available possible regular Town Council
meeting. The Town Council may affirm, reverse or modify the action appealed. In
ruling on the appeal, the findings and action of the Town Council shall be
final and conclusive in the matter. (Ord. 96, 11-5-1998)
5.10.160: PENALTIES:
Any person violating or causing or permitting the violation of any of the
provisions of this Chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 96, 11-5-
1998)
CHAPTER 5.12
[RESERVED]
CHAPTER 5.14
TEMPORARY SPECIAL EVENT PERMIT 1
(Rep. by Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 9,
   chapter 9.71 of this code.
CHAPTER 5.20
BUSINESS REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE
SECTION:
5.20.010: Purpose
5.20.020: Definitions
5.20.030: Claim Of Exemption
5.20.040: Fees
5.20.050: Issuing Authority
5.20.060: Application
5.20.070: Approval For Issuance
5.20.080: Term Of Certificate
5.20.090: Display Of Certificate
5.20.010: PURPOSE:
   A.   This chapter is enacted for the purpose of providing an inventory of
commercial activities conducted within the town; a method of determining
compliance with safety regulations imposed on commercial activities within the
town; and a mechanism whereby owners of commercial activities can be identified
and notified by town officials.
   B.   Unless otherwise expressly exempted, it shall be unlawful for any
person to commence, conduct, manage (participate in, advertise, or sponsor) a
commercial activity within the town without concurrently having a valid
business registration certificate from the town.
   C.   Notwithstanding the provisions of this chapter, proposed activities
shall be subject to zoning regulations. (Ord. 161, 1-27-2005)
5.20.020: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings set forth herein:
COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY: All manner of commercial activity, to include, without
limitation, professions, trades, occupations and callings, whether or not
carried on for profit. "Commercial activity" does not include:
   A.   Those activities which are not likely to exceed one thousand five
hundred dollars ($1,500.00) in gross annual revenue and involve no more than a
single or occasional act within the town.
   B.   A single act.
NOTICE: Includes notice to a responsible employee or agent of the person
conducting the activity.
PERSON: Includes, without limitation, an individual, association, domestic and
foreign corporations, limited liability companies, syndicates, joint stock
corporations, partnerships, club, common law trust, or society. (Ord. 161, 1-
27-2005)
5.20.030: CLAIM OF EXEMPTION:
   A.   This chapter shall not be construed to require any person to obtain a
business registration certificate prior to conducting a commercial activity
within the town of Yucca Valley, if the requirement conflicts with applicable
statutes of the United States or the state of California. (Ord. 177, 1-5-2006)
   B.   Any person claiming an exemption pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter shall file a signed statement with the town clerk stating the facts
upon which the exemption is claimed. In the absence of such statement
substantiating the claim, such person shall be liable for the obligations
imposed by this chapter.
   C.   Upon proper showing contained in a signed statement, the town clerk, or
his/her designee, will determine whether the person is entitled to the claimed
exemption.
   D.   Upon the giving of notice and a reasonable opportunity to respond, the
town clerk may revoke an exemption granted in accordance with this chapter upon
a finding that the activity is not entitled to the exemption. (Ord. 161, 1-27-
2005)
5.20.040: FEES:
Fees as set by resolution of the town council may be imposed for the initial
application, certificate renewal, penalties, duplicate certificates, and
transfer of business and/or change of business location. (Ord. 168, 5-12-2005)
5.20.050: ISSUING AUTHORITY:
The town clerk is the issuing authority for a business registration
certificate. (Ord. 161, 1-27-2005)
5.20.060: APPLICATION:
   A.   The town clerk shall prepare and have available application forms
calling for such information as is necessary to accomplish the purposes of this
chapter.
   B.   A separate certificate shall be applied for and a separate fee shall be
paid for each branch establishment or location of the commercial activity to be
transacted or carried on.
   C.   A separate certificate shall be applied for and a separate fee shall be
paid for by each separate operator of each separate type of commercial activity
to be transacted or carried on at the same location.
   D.   Applications for an initial, renewal or replacement certificate shall
be submitted under penalty of perjury to the office of the town clerk.
   E.   If the application is submitted by an agent, the agent shall file (with
the application) a written statement that the principal has authorized the
agent to apply for the certificate on the principal's behalf.
   F.   In the event the application is made for the issuance of a certificate
to a person doing business under a fictitious name, the full name, phone number
and place of residence of the principal owner of the business or persons
responsible shall be provided.
   G.   In the event that the application is made for the issuance of a
certificate to a corporation, limited liability company, partnership,
organization, association, syndicate or any other joint venture not identified
in subsection E or F of this section or this subsection G, the full name, phone
number and place of residence of the principal owner or responsible person
shall be provided.
   H.   The applicant shall furnish a signed statement setting forth, without
limitation, the following information:
      1.   The exact nature or kind of commercial activity for which a
certificate is requested; and
      2.   The place where such commercial activity is to be carried on, and if
the same is not to be carried on at any permanent site, then a description of
the route or temporary location; and
      3.   The full name, day and night phone number, and the place of
residence of the principal owner, business owner or on site manager of the
commercial activity. (Ord. 161, 1-27-2005)
5.20.070: APPROVAL FOR ISSUANCE:
The issuing authority shall issue a business registration certificate unless
one or more of the following conditions is found to exist:
   A.   A complete application has not been submitted;
   B.   The fee has not been paid;
   C.   The proposed commercial activity does not comply with applicable fire,
building, other safety codes or with other applicable regulations imposed on
commercial activities within the town. (Ord. 161, 1-27-2005)
5.20.080: TERM OF CERTIFICATE:
Unless otherwise expressly provided, all business registration certificates
issued pursuant to this chapter shall expire three hundred sixty five (365)
days after issue. (Ord. 161, 1-27-2005)
5.20.090: DISPLAY OF CERTIFICATE:
   A.   Posting Of Certificate: Every person carrying on a commercial activity
at a fixed place of business within the town shall keep the certificate posted,
while in force, in some conspicuous place upon the premises where the
commercial activity is carried on.
   B.   Carrying Certificate: Every person carrying on a commercial activity
but not operating at a fixed place of business within the town shall keep the
certificate or a copy thereof available at all times while carrying on the
commercial activity for which it is issued.
   C.   Exhibiting Certificate Upon Request: Every person carrying on a
commercial activity within the town shall produce and exhibit the certificate
whenever requested to do so by any officer or employee of the town. (Ord. 161,
1-27-2005)
CHAPTER 5.30
BINGO
SECTION:
5.30.010: Definitions
5.30.020: Conduct Of Bingo Games, Traditional And Remote Caller
5.30.030: Additional Provisions For The Conduct Of Remote Caller Bingo Games
5.30.040: Remote Caller Bingo Authorization
5.30.050: License
5.30.060: Summary Suspension And Revocation
5.30.010: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
BINGO: A game of chance in which prizes are awarded on the basis of designated
numbers or symbols on a card which conforms to numbers or symbols selected at
random.
CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION AFFILIATED WITH A SCHOOL DISTRICT: An organization
formed for the benefit of a school district which has an official name,
president, and secretary and which has an address or mailbox.
MOBILEHOME PARK ASSOCIATION: An organization formed for the benefit of
mobilehome park residents which has an official name, president, and secretary
and which has an address or mailbox.
REMOTE CALLER BINGO: Bingo as defined in Penal Code section 326.3(u)(1).
SENIOR CITIZENS ORGANIZATION: An organization formed for the benefit of senior
citizens which has an official name, president, and secretary and which has an
address or mailbox. (Ord. 234, 3-20-2012)
5.30.020: CONDUCT OF BINGO GAMES, TRADITIONAL AND REMOTE CALLER:
Bingo games, traditional and remote caller, may be conducted in the town
subject and pursuant to the following provisions, except when expressly limited
to traditional (not remote caller) bingo games only:
   A.   Bingo games shall be conducted only by organizations exempted from the
payment of the bank and corporation tax by Revenue And Taxation Code sections
23701a, 23701b, 23701d, 23701e, 23701f, 23701g, 23701k, 23701l, and 23701w and
by charitable organizations affiliated with a school district, mobilehome park
associations, and senior citizens organizations, provided that the proceeds of
such games are used only for charitable purposes or for reimbursement of
reasonable and necessary expenses in operating such games. Security personnel
employed by the organization conducting bingo games may be paid from the
revenues of bingo games as provided in subsection J of this section.
   B.   For traditional (not remote caller) bingo games only, it is an
infraction for any person to receive a profit, wage or salary from any bingo
game authorized as provided in article IV, section 19 of the constitution of
the state. Security personnel employed by the organization conducting the bingo
game may be paid from the revenues of bingo games as provided in subsection J
of this section.
   C.   Violations of subsection B of this section shall be punishable by an
administrative fine not to exceed ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) which fine
shall be deposited in the general fund of the town. A violation of any
provision of this section, other than subsection B of this section, is an
infraction.
   D.   No minor person shall be allowed to operate, work at or participate in
any bingo game.
   E.   A bingo game shall only be conducted on property owned or leased by an
organization authorized by this section to conduct bingo games which has been
in existence in the town at least three (3) consecutive years prior to the
filing of an application for a bingo license.
   F.   All bingo games shall be open to the public, not just to members of the
authorized organization.
   G.   A bingo game shall be operated and staffed only by members of the
nonprofit, charitable organization, mobilehome park association or senior
citizens organization which organized it. Such members shall not receive a
profit, wage or salary from any bingo game. Only the organization authorized to
conduct the bingo game under this section shall operate such game or
participate in the promotion, supervision or any other phase of such game.
   H.   No individual, corporation, partnership or other legal entity except
the organization authorized to conduct a bingo game shall hold a financial
interest in the conduct of such bingo game.
   I.   All profits derived from a bingo game shall be kept in a special fund
or account and shall not be commingled with any other fund or account. The
licensee shall keep full and accurate records of the income and expenses
received and disbursed in connection with its operation, conduct, promotion,
supervision and any other phase of bingo games which are authorized by this
section. The town auditor, in conjunction with the police department, shall
have the right to examine and audit such records at any reasonable time, and
the licensee shall fully cooperate with the town by making such records
available. Such proceeds shall be used only for charitable purposes, except as
described in subsection J of this section.
   J.   All proceeds derived from a bingo game pursuant to this section:
      1.   May be used for prizes.
      2.   A portion of such proceeds, not to exceed twenty percent (20%) of
the proceeds before the deduction of prizes, or two thousand dollars
($2,000.00) per month, whichever is less, may be used for rental of property,
overhead, including the purchase of bingo equipment, administrative expenses,
security equipment and security personnel.
      3.   Such proceeds may be used to pay license fees.
      4.   If the monthly gross receipts from bingo games of an organization
within this subsection exceeds five thousand dollars ($5,000.00), a minimum
percentage of the proceeds shall be used only for charitable purposes not
relating to the conducting of bingo games and the balance shall be used for
prizes, rental of property, overhead, administrative expenses and payment of
license fees. The amount of proceeds used for rental of property, overhead, and
administrative expenses is subject to the limitations specified in subsection
J2 of this section.
   K.   No bingo game shall be operated until, and unless, such organization
shall have received a license authorizing it to conduct a bingo game. The
annual fee for such license shall be set by the town.
   L.   For traditional (not remote caller) bingo games only, no person shall
be allowed to participate in a bingo game pursuant to this section unless the
person is physically present at the time and place in which the bingo game is
being conducted.
   M.   For traditional (not remote caller) bingo games only, the total value
of prizes awarded during the conduct of any bingo game shall not exceed five
hundred dollars ($500.00) in cash or kind, or both, for each separate game
which is held.
   N.   For traditional (not remote caller) bingo games only, there shall be no
more than two (2) bingo games held during any calendar week in any one location
wherein a portion of the proceeds are retained by the sponsoring organization
unless the proceeds retained are to be used solely to reimburse expenses as
defined in subsection J of this section.
   O.   No organization shall conduct bingo games between the hours of eleven
o'clock (11:00) P.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) A.M.
   P.   The games shall be conducted in compliance with Penal Code section
326.5 and all other applicable state and local laws and regulations, expressly
including, but not limited to, all applicable administrative and management
agreements. (Ord. 234, 3-20-2012)
5.30.030: ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS FOR THE CONDUCT OF REMOTE CALLER BINGO GAMES:
Remote caller bingo games may be conducted in the town subject and pursuant to
the following provisions:
   A.   Remote caller bingo games may be conducted by any organization eligible
to receive a traditional bingo license pursuant to section
5.30.020 of this chapter if:
      1.   The organization possesses a valid traditional bingo license issued
pursuant to section
5.30.050 of this chapter.
      2.   The organization has been incorporated or in existence for three (3)
consecutive years or more; and
      3.   The organization obtains approval from the sheriff's captain as
provided in section
5.30.040 of this chapter.
   B.   Remote caller bingo games shall be conducted in compliance with Penal
Code sections 326.3 and 326.4 and all other applicable local and state laws and
regulations.
   C.   Remote caller bingo games shall not be conducted by any licensee on
more than two (2) days during any week, except that a licensee may hold one
additional game, at its election, in each calendar quarter.
   D.   In addition to the requirements of subsection
5.30.020I of this chapter, the licensee shall submit copies of any state
mandated audits, including, but not limited to, those required pursuant to
Penal Code section 326.3(w)(2), to the sheriff's captain within five (5) days
of their submission to the applicable state agency.
   E.   Except as authorized by Penal Code section 326.3, it is a misdemeanor
for any person to receive a profit, wage or salary from any remote caller bingo
game authorized as provided in article IV, section 19 of the constitution of
the state.
   F.   Violations of subsection E of this section shall be punishable by an
administrative fine not to exceed ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) which fine
shall be deposited in the general fund of the town. A violation of any
provision of this section, other than subsection E of this section, is a
misdemeanor. (Ord. 234, 3-20-2012)
5.30.040: REMOTE CALLER BINGO AUTHORIZATION:
   A.   Organizations wishing to conduct remote caller bingo shall submit a
request to do so to the town clerk, such application may be submitted at the
same time as an application for a traditional bingo license pursuant to section
5.30.050 of this chapter. The request shall be accompanied by any information
reasonably necessary to permit the sheriff's captain to determine that the
proposed remote caller bingo operation and games will be conducted in
compliance with this chapter and all other applicable state and local laws and
regulations, expressly including, but not limited to, all applicable
administrative and management agreements.
   B.   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in subsection A of this
section, any organization possessing a valid traditional bingo license issued
pursuant to section
5.30.050 of this chapter may submit a request for authorization to conduct
remote caller bingo games at any time. However, such requests shall be
accompanied by a nonrefundable filing fee in an amount determined by resolution
of the council from time to time. The request shall also be accompanied by any
information reasonably necessary to permit the sheriff's captain to determine
that the proposed remote caller bingo operation and games will be conducted in
compliance with this chapter and all applicable state laws and regulations.
   C.   Approvals to conduct remote caller bingo issued pursuant to this
section shall be valid until the end of the calendar year in which they were
issued or the expiration of the traditional bingo license that the approval was
incorporated into or attached to, whichever is earlier. A new approval granted
creates no vested right on the part of the licensee to continue to offer remote
caller bingo for play. The town council expressly reserves the right to amend
or repeal this section at any time. If this section is repealed, all approvals
granted pursuant to this section shall cease to be effective for any purpose on
the effective date of the repealing legislation.
   D.   In the event an organization only wishes to conduct remote caller bingo
games, it shall not be required to undergo the investigations required pursuant
to subsection
5.30.050D of this chapter provided it obtains and maintains all necessary state
licenses and registrations required by Penal Code section 326.3 and submits
copies of such licenses and registrations with its application pursuant to this
section. Any organization exempt from town investigations pursuant to this
subsection shall only conduct remote caller bingo games and shall not conduct
traditional bingo games pursuant to section 5.30.020 of this chapter. (Ord.
234, 3-20-2012)
5.30.050: LICENSE:
   A.   The application for a license for the conduct of bingo games, whether
traditional or remote caller, shall be upon a form prescribed by the town, and
shall be accompanied by written evidence of the exemption of the organization
from the payment of the bank and corporation tax by applicable state law and
payment of the license fee as set by resolution of the town council, which
shall not exceed the maximum amount permitted pursuant to Penal Code section
326.5(l)(1). The following documentation shall be attached to the application,
as applicable:
      1.   A certificate issued by the franchise tax board certifying that the
applicant is exempt from the payment of the taxes imposed under the corporation
tax law pursuant to section 23701a, 23701b, 23701d, 23701e, 23701f, 23701g,
23701k, 23701l, or 23701w of the Revenue And Taxation Code. In lieu of a
certificate issued by the franchise tax board, the sheriff's captain may refer
to the franchise tax board's internet website to verify that the applicant is
exempt from the payment of the taxes imposed under the corporation tax law.
      2.   Other evidence as the sheriff's captain determines is necessary to
verify that the applicant is a duly organized mobilehome park association of a
mobilehome park situated in the town.
The license shall not be issued until the sheriff's captain has verified the
facts stated in the application and determined that the applicant is qualified.
   B.   A license issued pursuant to this section shall be valid for one year,
at which time the license shall expire. A new license shall only be obtained
upon filing a new application and payment of the license fee. The fact that a
license has been issued to an applicant creates no vested right on the part of
the licensee to continue to offer bingo for play. The town of Yucca Valley
expressly reserves the right to amend or repeal this section at any time by
ordinance or resolution. If this chapter is repealed, all licenses issued
pursuant to this section shall cease to be effective for any purpose on the
effective date of the repealing ordinance or resolution.
   C.   Upon receipt of the completed application and the fee, the town clerk
shall refer the application to interested departments of the town, including,
but not limited to, the town manager, town attorney, planning department and
the sheriff's department, for investigation as to whether or not all the
statements in the application are true and whether or not the property of the
applicant qualifies, and the extent to which it qualifies, as property on which
bingo games may lawfully be conducted.
   D.   For traditional bingo only, upon receipt of an application, or whenever
there is a change of officers of the organization or in the position of game
manager, the sheriff's captain shall make an investigation regarding the
character and moral fitness of applicants, the cost of which investigation
shall be borne in whole or in part by the applicants in an amount set by
resolution of the town council. This investigation shall include the obtaining
of criminal history statements, through fingerprints, for all officers/board
members and game manager(s) associated with the day to day operation of the
game. The cost of this check shall be borne by the applicant as provided in
Penal Code section 326.5(l)(2). The purpose of this investigation is to
determine those persons who have been convicted of crimes involving lotteries,
gambling, larceny, perjury, bribery, extortion, fraud or similar crimes
involving moral turpitude. If any person investigated does in fact have a
criminal record, or presents any cause for concern related to the community's
public health, peace, safety, or welfare, such person shall be notified in
writing and the license suspended until such person is removed from the
application or does not participate in bingo operations. Such person shall not,
at any time in the future, be permitted to participate in any way in any bingo
operation licensed under this chapter. Any person objecting to the sheriff's
captain's determination pursuant to this subsection may appeal to the town
manager or designee provided he or she files a notice of appeal with the town
clerk within ten (10) days of the captain's determination.
   E.   Upon initial application, yearly renewals and change in organizational
officers/board members or game managers, the sheriff's department shall meet
with organizations holding bingo licenses to review existing laws and town
ordinances regulating bingo operations and to answer questions that may arise.
   F.   Licenses are not transferable, and there are no rebates if the bingo
operation licensed under this chapter is discontinued during the period for
which the license was issued. (Ord. 234, 3-20-2012)
5.30.060: SUMMARY SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION:
   A.   In addition to any other penalty provided by law, whenever it appears
to the sheriff's captain that the licensee, whether of traditional or remote
caller bingo, is conducting a bingo game in violation of any of the provisions
of this chapter, the sheriff's captain shall have the authority to summarily
suspend the license and order the licensee to immediately cease and desist any
further operation of any bingo game.
      1.   Any such order shall be in writing and personally served upon the
licensee. Any violation of this chapter shall constitute cause for the
revocation of the organization's bingo license or remote caller bingo approval
by the sheriff's captain. Any person objecting to the sheriff's captain's
determination pursuant to this subsection may appeal to the town manager or
designee provided he/she files a notice of appeal with the town clerk within
ten (10) days of the sheriff's captain's determination.
      2.   Any person who continues to conduct a bingo game after any summary
suspension thereof under this subsection A shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor.
      3.   The order issued under this subsection A shall also notify the
licensee that it shall have five (5) days from the date of such order to
request a hearing to determine whether such license shall be revoked. Failure
to request, in writing, such hearing before the town manager within said five
(5) day period shall result in a revocation of the license.
      4.   Upon such request by the licensee whose license has been suspended
under this subsection A for a hearing to determine whether such license shall
be revoked, the town manager shall provide such hearing within ten (10) days
after receipt of such request at which hearing the suspended licensee may
appear before the town manager. No license shall be revoked under this section
unless notice of the time and place of such hearing shall have first been given
at least five (5) days before the hearing thereof by depositing in the United
States mail a notice directed to said suspended licensee at the address given
in the application. The notice shall set forth a summary of the ground advanced
as the basis of the suspension and revocation. The licensee shall be afforded
the opportunity to present evidence why the license should not be revoked. The
licensee shall be entitled to be represented by counsel.
      5.   At the close of the hearing, the town manager shall render a
decision. If the town manager decides that the license should be revoked, a
written notice thereof shall be personally served upon the licensee. Said
written notice shall contain a clear and concise statement of the ground for
revocation and a statement that the licensee has a right to appeal the decision
to the town council.
      6.   Any organization whose license is revoked under this section shall
not conduct any bingo game in the town until such time as the town council, on
appeal by the licensee, determines to overrule the decision of the town
manager.
   B.   Whenever it appears to the town manager that the licensee is conducting
bingo games in violation of any of the provisions of this section, or that the
license was obtained by fraudulent representation and no summary suspension is
ordered under subsection A of this section, the license may be revoked;
provided, however, the licensee shall have the opportunity to appear at a
hearing conducted by the town manager.
      1.   No license shall be revoked under this section unless written notice
shall have been given at least five (5) days before the hearing thereof by
depositing in the United States mail a notice directed to said licensee at the
address given in the application. The notice shall set forth a summary of the
ground advanced as the basis of the revocation. The licensee shall be afforded
the opportunity to present evidence why the license should not be revoked. The
licensee shall be entitled to be represented by counsel.
      2.   At the close of the hearing, the town manager shall render a
decision. If the town manager decides that the license should be revoked, a
written notice thereof shall be personally served upon the licensee. Said
written notice shall contain a clear and concise statement of the ground for
revocation and a statement that the licensee has a right to appeal the decision
to the town council.
      3.   Any organization whose license is revoked under this section shall
not conduct any bingo game in the town until such time as the town council, on
appeal by the licensee, determines to overrule the decision of the town
manager.
   C.   Any licensee whose license is revoked pursuant to subsection A or B of
this section shall have the right, within ten (10) days after receiving notice
in writing of the revocation, to file a written appeal to the town council with
the town clerk. Such appeal shall set forth the specific ground(s) on which it
is based. The town council shall hold a hearing on the appeal within thirty
(30) days after its receipt by the town clerk, or at a time thereafter agreed
upon by the appellant and shall cause the appellant to be given at least ten
(10) days' written notice of such hearing. At the hearing, the appellant or its
authorized representative shall have the right to present evidence and a
written or oral argument, or both, in support of its appeal. The determination
of the town council on the appeal shall be final.
   D.   Any organization whose license is finally revoked may not again apply
for license to conduct bingo games in the town of Yucca Valley for a period of
one year from the date of such revocation; provided, however, if the ground for
revocation is cancellation of the exemption granted under Revenue And Taxation
Code section 23701d, such organization may again apply for a license upon proof
of reinstatement of said exemption. (Ord. 234, 3-20-2012)
CHAPTER 5.40
TEMPORARY SHORT-TERM VACATION RENTAL PERMIT
SECTION:
5.40.010: Purpose
5.40.020: Definitions
5.40.030: Authorized Agent Or Representative
5.40.040: Temporary Short-Term Vacation Rental Permit - Required
5.40.050: Temporary Short-Term Vacation Rental Permit - Application
5.40.060: Operational Requirements And Standard Conditions
5.40.070: Additional Development Standards
5.40.080: Nuisance Response Plans
5.40.090: Maximum Number Of Temporary Short-Term Vacation Rental Permits
5.40.100: Recordkeeping Duties
5.40.110: Permit Administration, Amendments, Revocations And Violations
5.40.120: Verified Short-Term Vacation Rental Permit Operational Violations
5.40.130: Director’s Meetings
5.40.140: Expiration Of Permits
5.40.150: Abandonment
5.40.160: Application Waiting List Procedure
5.40.170: Transferability
5.40.010: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to establish regulations for the temporary use
of privately owned single-family residential dwellings that are used as short-
term vacation rentals and to ensure the collection and payment of transient
occupancy taxes as provided in
Chapter 3.24  of the Town Code and minimize the negative secondary effects of
such use on surrounding residential properties and residents. The permitting
process, standards, and regulations contained herein are intended and designed
to ensure the public health, welfare and safety, and tranquility, peace, quiet,
preservation of the dark night sky, and low-density desert characteristics of
Yucca Valley neighborhoods are not altered, affected, or minimized in any
manner or form by the operation of Temporary Short-Term Vacation Rentals.
This chapter is not intended to provide any owner of residential property with
the right or privilege to violate any private conditions, covenants, and
restrictions applicable to the owner’s property that may prohibit the use of
such owner’s residential property for short-term vacation rental purposes as
defined in this Chapter. (Ord. 312, 3-5-2024)
5.40.020: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meaning respectively ascribed to them by this section:
APPLICABLE LAWS, RULES AND REGULATIONS: Any laws, rules, regulations, and codes
(whether local, state, or federal) pertaining to the use and occupancy of a
privately owned dwelling unit as a short-term vacation rental, and includes all
rules, standards, regulations, and laws as established by the Yucca Valley Town
Code in its entirety.
APPLICANT: The owner of the short-term vacation rental unit or the owner’s
authorized agent or representative.
AUTHORIZED AGENT OR REPRESENTATIVE: The designated agent or representative who,
in addition to the property owner, is responsible for compliance with this
chapter with respect to the short-term vacation rental.
BEDROOM: A private room in the short-term vacation rental unit for sleeping,
separated from other rooms and with no less than 70 square feet of floor area.
Kitchens, bathrooms, toilet rooms, living rooms, dens, dining areas, halls,
closets, storage or utility spaces, and similar areas are not considered
bedrooms.
DIRECTOR: That person acting in the capacity of the Director of Community
Development Department or his or her designee.
DIRECTOR’S MEETINGS: Meetings held by the Director with vacation rental unit
owners, property owners, residents, neighborhood residents, regarding the
permitting and operations of vacation rentals, the adherence of vacation
rentals to adopted standards, regulations and conditions of approval, for the
purpose of collecting facts, evidence and information regarding potential
violations of regulations and conditions of approval and for preparing
recommendations to the Town Manager for potential permit actions.
GUEST: Any individual visiting the Short-Term Vacation Rental Unit who is not
an occupant.
GOOD NEIGHBOR BROCHURE: A document prepared by the Town that summarizes the
general rules of conduct, consideration, and respect, including without
limitation, provisions of the Town of Yucca Valley Code and other applicable
laws, rules or regulations pertaining to the use and occupancy of short-term
vacation rental units.
LOCAL CONTACT PERSON: The person(s) designated by the owner or the owner’s
authorized agent or representative who shall be available twenty-four hours per
day, seven days per week for the purpose of: (1) responding within fifteen (15)
minutes by telephone or text and within or less than thirty (30) minutes to be
on-site, to complaints regarding the condition, operation, or conduct of
occupants of the short-term vacation rental unit; and (2) taking remedial
action to resolve any such complaints.
NUISANCE RESPONSE PLAN: A plan containing the required information identified
in this chapter and addresses how the owner will respond to nuisances,
including, but not limited to, noise, parties, excessive guests and cars, light
trespass, excessive and windblown trash, trash cans out before or after trash
collection day, loud music, bands, and all other similar nuisances.
OCCUPANT: Any individual two (2) years in age or older, that occupied or
intends to occupy a short-term vacation rental unit overnight.
OWNER: The person(s) or entity(ies) that hold(s) legal and/or equitable title
to the subject short-term vacation rental unit.
PROPERTY: A residential legal lot of record on which a short-term vacation
rental unit is located.
RESPONSIBLE PERSON: An occupant of a short-term vacation rental unit who is at
least twenty-one years of age and who is legally responsible for ensuring that
all occupants of the short-term vacation rental unit and/or their guests comply
with all applicable laws, rules and regulations pertaining to the use and
occupancy of the subject short-term vacation rental unit.
REVOCATION HEARING: A hearing to consider revocation of a Temporary Short-Term
Vacation Rental permit.
SHORT-TERM VACATION RENTAL (STVR): A short-term vacation rental is a detached
single family residential unit constructed and permitted for residential
dwelling purposes and may include residential accessory structures containing
habitable space that were constructed pursuant to the Building Codes in effect
at the time of their construction. A short term vacation rental does not
include a duplex, condominium, tent, recreation vehicle, teepee, or any other
type of structure, vehicle, or facility which was not constructed and permitted
as a detached, habitable, single-family residential unit or as a habitable
residential accessory structure.
TEMPORARY SHORT-TERM VACATION RENTAL PERMIT (TSTVRP): A temporary permit, not
exceeding four (4) years in length, issued to the owner of the property, that
authorizes the temporary use of a privately owned, habitable, residential
dwelling or habitable residential accessory structure as a short-term vacation
rental unit pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter, and which incorporates
by consolidation a transient occupancy permit and a business license otherwise
required by
Chapters 3.24  (Transient Occupancy Tax) and
5.20  (Business Registration) of the Yucca Valley Town Code.
TOWN MANAGER: The Town Manager of the Town of Yucca Valley, or his or her
designee.
SHORT-TERM VACATION RENTAL UNIT: A privately owned detached, habitable, single
family residential dwelling or habitable single-family residential accessory
structure, rented for occupancy for dwelling, lodging, or sleeping purposes for
a period of thirty (30) consecutive calendar days or less, counting portions of
calendar days as full days; except any private dwelling house or other
individually owned habitable residential dwelling unit or habitable single-
family residential accessory structure rented only once in a calendar year.
TRANSIENT: For purposes of this chapter means any person who seeks to rent or
who does rent a short-term vacation rental unit. (Ord. 312, 3-5-2024)
5.40.030: AUTHORIZED AGENT OR REPRESENTATIVE:
   A.   An owner may authorize an agent or a representative to comply with the
requirements of this chapter on behalf of the owner.
   B.   Notwithstanding subsection A, the owner shall not be relieved from any
personal responsibility and personal liability for noncompliance with any
applicable law, rule or regulation pertaining to the use and occupancy of the
subject short term vacation rental unit, regardless of whether such
noncompliance was committed by the owner’s authorized agent or representative
or the occupants of the owner’s short-term vacation rental unit or their
guests. (Ord. 312, 3-5-2024)
5.40.040: TEMPORARY SHORT-TERM VACATION RENTAL PERMIT - REQUIRED:
   A.   The owner or the owner’s authorized agent or representative shall
obtain a temporary short-term vacation rental permit, a business registration
certification, and transient occupancy tax certificate from the Town before
renting or advertising the availability of a short-term vacation rental unit.
   B.   A temporary short-term vacation rental permit is valid for a maximum
four (4) year period. Permit renewal application for a temporary short-term
vacation rental shall be applied for and evaluated by the Town consistent with
this Chapter. Temporary short-term vacation rental permits are particular to
the property owner, are not transferable unless transferred in accordance with
section
5.40.170 , and do not run with the land. (Ord. 312, 3-5-2024)
5.40.050: TEMPORARY SHORT-TERM VACATION RENTAL PERMIT - APPLICATION:
   A.   The owner shall submit the following information on a temporary short-
term vacation rental permit application form provided by the Town, in addition
to any additional information deemed necessary by the Director.
      1.   The name, address, telephone number, and email addresses, and
address of the owner of the subject short-term vacation rental unit.
      2.   The name, address, telephone number and email address, of the
owner’s authorized agent or representative, if any.
      3.   The name, address, email address, and twenty-four (24) hour
telephone number of the local contact person.
      4.   The address and assessor parcel number of the proposed short-term
vacation rental unit, internet listing sites and listing numbers.
      5.   Contact name and phone number of the homeowners association, if
applicable.
      6.   The number of bedrooms and the applicable overnight and daytime
occupancy limit of the proposed short-term vacation rental unit.
      7.   Acknowledgment of receipt and inspection of a copy of the good
neighbor brochure.
      8.   The approximate square footage of the TSTVR and the square footage
of all bedrooms within the TSTVR.
      9.   Notarized acknowledgment that the structure meets all building and
safety and zoning codes of the Town of Yucca Valley at the time of
construction.
      10.   A diagram and/or photographs of the premises showing and indicating
the location and designated on-site parking spaces, and the maximum number of
vehicles allowed for overnight occupants.
      11.   The location of pools, hot tubs, spas, or similar elements
installed and/or constructed on the property.
      12.   Acknowledgment that the owner, agent, and local contact individuals
have read all regulations pertaining to the operation of a short-term vacation
rental and acknowledgment of their responsibility to assist in enforcement of
operating rules and in the payment of transient occupancy taxes.
      13.   Copy of the business registration/application filed with the Town
of Yucca Valley for the rental unit.
      14.   Copy of the Transient Occupancy Tax (TOT) permit application filed
with the Town.
      15.   Documentation of insurance coverage for the structure as a STVR.
      16.   Nuisance response plan. Failure to submit a nuisance response plan
in accordance with this Chapter shall result in the denial of the permit
application, and the applicant is required to reinitiate the application
process.
      17.   Such other information as the Director deems reasonably necessary
to administer this Chapter.
   B.   The temporary short-term vacation rental permit application shall be
accompanied by an application fee as established by resolution of the Town
Council.
   C.   A temporary short-term vacation rental permit application may be denied
if the applicant has had a prior temporary short-term vacation rental permit
for the same unit revoked within the past twelve (12) calendar months.
   D.   Within fourteen (14) days of a change of owner’s agent or
representative, or any other change in material facts pertaining to the
information contained in the STVR permit application, the owner or owner’s
authorized agent or representative shall submit an application and requisite
application fee for a new temporary short-term vacation rental permit, which
shall be obtained prior to continuing to rent the subject unit as a short-term
vacation rental. In the event of a change of ownership for a property that
previously obtained a temporary short term vacation rental permit, the permit
holder shall notify the Town within fourteen (14) days of the change of
ownership. The temporary short term vacation rental permit shall immediately
expire upon the change of ownership.
   E.   All applications shall be filed in person by the property owner or the
authorized agent or representative of the property owner. Appointments with the
Director or the Director’s representative are required and shall be scheduled
no less than thirty (30) days in advance of application submittal. No
application shall be accepted via mail, email, or in person submitted by any
individual who is not the property owner or the authorized agent or
representative of the property owner.
   F.   All applications shall be complete at the time of submittal. No
incomplete application can be accepted by Town staff. (Ord. 312, 3-5-2024)
5.40.060: OPERATIONAL REQUIREMENTS AND STANDARD CONDITIONS:
   A.   The owner and/or owner’s authorized agent or representative shall use
reasonably prudent business practices to ensure that the short-term vacation
rental unit is used in a manner that complies with all applicable laws, rules
and regulations pertaining to the use and occupancy of the subject short-term
vacation rental unit.
   B.   In accordance with the table below, only those occupants to whom the
short-term vacation rental has been leased, and their guests, are authorized to
be on the premises. No other individual is allowed on the property during the
leased period. Kitchens, bathrooms, toilet rooms, living rooms, dens, dining
areas, halls, closets, storage or utility spaces, and similar areas are not
considered bedrooms and shall not be used in the calculation for determining
the maximum number of occupants, guests, and vehicles. The number of occupants,
guests, and vehicles in any given short-   term vacation rental unit shall be
limited as follows.
      1.   The total daytime numbers provided in the table below may only be
temporarily exceeded when in conformance with the Special Event Regulations
contained in Section
9.38.020  of the
Chapter 9.38  of the Yucca Valley Development Code for guests of a permitted
special event. The total overnight numbers provided in the table below may not
be exceeded.
                   Total of Overnight* Occupants Total Daytime** Occupants
Number of Bedrooms and Vehicles                  (Including Number of Overnight
                                                 Occupants) and Vehicles
0 - Studio         2                             8
1                  4                             8
2                  6                             8
3                  8                             12
4                  10                            16
5                  12                            18
6                  14                            20
7                  14                            20
*Overnight (10:00 P.M. - 7:00 A.M.) **Daytime (7:00 A.M. - 10:00 P.M.)
   C.   While a short-term vacation rental unit is rented, the owner, the
owner’s authorized agent or representative and/or the owner’s designated local
contact person shall be available twenty-four (24) hours per day, seven (7)
days per week for the purpose of responding, including being physically on site
within thirty (30) minutes to complaints and concerns, and responding to all
complaints and concerns within fifteen (15) minutes via telephone or text
message, regarding the condition, operation, or conduct of occupants of the
short-term vacation rental unit or their guests.
   D.   The owner, the owner’s authorized agent or representative, and/or the
owner’s designated local contact person shall use reasonably prudent business
practices to ensure that the occupants and/or guests of the short-term vacation
rental unit do not create unreasonable noise or disturbances, engage in
disorderly conduct, or violate any applicable law, rule, or regulation
pertaining to the use and occupancy of the subject short-term vacation rental
unit.
   E.   Noise: No radio receiver, musical instrument, phonograph, compact disk
player, loudspeaker, karaoke machine, sound amplifier, or any machine, device
or equipment that produces or reproduces any sound shall be used outside or be
audible from the outside of any short-term vacation rental unit between the
hours of 10:00 P.M. and 7:00 A.M.
      1.   It is unlawful for any owner, renter, occupant, or guest located at
a short-term vacation rental unit to make, cause to be made, or allow to be
made any loud, excessive, impulsive, or intrusive noise that disturbs the peace
or quiet or that causes discomfort or annoyance to any reasonable person of
normal sensitivities in the area. Such types of noises or actions causing
noises include, but are not limited to, yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling,
singing, playing a musical instrument, emitting, or transmitting any loud music
or noise from any mechanical or electrical sound making or sound amplifying
device, and the habitual barking, howling, or crowing of animals.
      2.   The standard for enforcement of this subsection is the “reasonable
person” standard. The inquiry is whether the noise would disturb the peace or
quiet or cause discomfort or annoyance to a reasonable person under the same or
similar circumstances.
      3.   Factors that may be considered in determining whether a violation of
this subsection has been committed include, but are not limited to the
following: the level of noise; the level and intensity of the background
(ambient noise), if any; the proximity of the noise to the residential unit in
question; the time of day or night the noise occurs; the duration of the noise;
whether the noise is constant, recurrent or intermittent; and whether the noise
is produced by a mechanical or electronical device.
      4.   The owner or owner’s authorized agent or representative shall
install Noise Aware hardware and software, or its equivalent or better, prior
to operations. The data collected by the hardware and software shall be made
available to the Town immediately upon request. The noise monitoring equipment
should be installed as near to abutting property lines as possible. The short-
term vacation rental owner may desire to have additional noise and video
monitors on the site beyond this requirement.
   F.   Prior to occupancy of a short-term vacation rental unit, the owner or
the owner’s authorized agent or representative shall:
      1.   Obtain the contact information of the responsible person.
      2.   Provide a copy of the good neighbor brochure to the responsible
person.
      3.   Require such responsible person to execute a formal acknowledgment
that he or she is legally responsible for compliance by all occupants of the
short-term vacation rental unit and their guests with all applicable laws,
rules, and regulations pertaining to the use and occupancy of the short-term
vacation rental unit and shall require the responsible person to sign a copy of
the Town’s regulations for short-term vacation rentals. This information shall
be maintained by the owner or the owner’s authorized agent or representative
for a period of three (3) years and be made readily available upon request of
any officer of the Town responsible for the enforcement of any provision of the
Town Code or any other applicable law, rule, or regulation pertaining to the
use and occupancy of the short-term vacation rental unit.
      4.   The owner, the owner’s authorized agent or representative and/or the
owner’s designated local contact person shall greet the responsible person or
communicate electronically prior to occupancy of the STVR by the responsible
person. The responsible person shall be provided a verbal briefing in person or
via electronic means on the Town’s rules, regulations, and standards for STVRs,
and shall sign copies, which must be retained by the owner for a period of
three (3) years.
   G.   The owner, the owner’s authorized agent or representative and/or the
owner’s designated local contact person shall, upon notification that the
responsible person and/or any occupant and/or guest of the short-term vacation
rental unit has created unreasonable noise or disturbances, engaged in
disorderly conduct, or committed violations of any applicable law, rule, or
regulation pertaining to the use and occupancy of the subject short-term
vacation rental unit, promptly respond in a timely and appropriate manner to
immediately halt or prevent a recurrence of such conduct by the responsible
person and/or any occupants and/or guests. Failure of the owner, the owner’s
authorized agentor representative and/or the owner’s designated local contact
person to respond to calls or complaints regarding the condition, operation, or
conduct of occupants and/or guests of the short-term vacation rental unit in a
timely and appropriate manner shall be subject to all administrative, legal,
and equitable remedies available to the Town.
   H.   The owner, the owner’s authorized agent or representative and/or the
owner’s designated local contact person shall report to the Director the name,
violation, date, and time of disturbance of each person involved in two or more
disorderly conduct activities, disturbances or other violations of any
applicable law, rule, or regulation pertaining to the use and occupancy of the
subject short-term vacation rental unit, within five (5) business days of the
second occurrence.
   I.   Trash and refuse shall not be left stored within public view, except in
proper containers for the purpose of collection by the Town’s authorized waste
hauler on scheduled trash collection days. The owner, the owner’s authorized
agent or representative shall use reasonably prudent business practices to
ensure compliance with all the provisions of
Chapter 6.02  (Solid Waste Handling and Recycling Services) of the Town Code.
   J.   No sign, as that term is defined in Ordinance 156 (Signs), shall be
posted on the premises to advertise the availability of the short-term vacation
rental unit. Off-site directional signs are prohibited. There shall be no
displays, sale, or advertising signs on the premises. There shall be no signs
other than one unlighted identification sign containing the name and address of
the property attached to the building not exceeding two (2) square feet in area
per street frontage.
   K.   Parking shall be allowed on site only and shall not exceed the maximum
number of vehicles as identified in the Table of Section
5.40.060 .B. Parking shall be dustproof material including pavement, slag,
gravel, or similar material.
   L.   The owner, the owner’s authorized agent or representative and/or the
owner’s designated local contact person shall post a copy of the short-term
vacation rental permit and a copy of the good neighbor brochure in a
conspicuous place within the short-term vacation rental unit, and a copy of the
good neighbor brochure shall be provided to the responsible person of the
subject short-term vacation rental unit.
   M.   Unless otherwise provided in this Chapter, the owner and/or the owner’s
authorized agent or representative shall comply with all provisions of
Chapter 3.24  of the Town Code concerning transient occupancy taxes, including,
but not limited to, submission of returns in accordance with Section
3.24.080  of the Town Code, which shall be filed even if the short-term
vacation rental unit was not rented during each such month.
   N.   The Director shall have the authority to impose additional conditions
on the use of any given short-term vacation rental unit to ensure that any
potential secondary effects unique to the subject short-term vacation rental
unit are avoided or adequately mitigated.
   O.   The standard conditions set forth herein may be modified by the
Director upon request of the owner or the owner’s authorized agent or
representative based on site-specific circumstances for the purpose of allowing
reasonable accommodation of a short-term vacation rental. All requests must be
in writing and shall identify how the strict application of the standard
conditions creates an unreasonable hardship to a property such that, if the
requirement is not modified, reasonable use of the property for a short-term
vacation rental would not be allowed. Any hardships identified must relate to
physical constraints to the subject site and shall not be self-induced or
economic. Any modifications of the standard conditions shall not further
exacerbate an already existing problem.
   P.   The owner and/or the owner’s authorized agent or representative shall
post, in a place or location deemed acceptable by the Director, the current
short-term vacation rental permit number on or in any advertisement appearing
in any newspaper, magazine, brochure, television trade paper, Internet website,
etc., that promotes the availability or existence of a short-term vacation
rental unit. In the instance of audio-only advertising of the same, the short-
term vacation rental permit number shall be read as part of the advertising.
   Q.   All outdoor lighting shall be fully shielded so that all light goes
below a horizontal plane, and shall not result in light trespass onto any
abutting property. Certification shall be provided by the owner prior to permit
approval.
   R.   Posted Notice within Unit: Each short-term vacation rental unit shall
have a clearly visible and legible notice posted within the unit, on or
adjacent to the front door, containing the following information:
      1.   The name of the managing agency, agent, property manager, or owner
of the unit, and a telephone number at which that party may be immediately
reached on a twenty-four (24) hour basis.
      2.   The maximum number of occupants.
      3.   The maximum number of vehicles allowed to be parked on the property.
      4.   Notification of the arrangements that the owner has made to allow
the renter to properly store and dispose of trash or refuse in accordance with
the terms of the Town Code.
      5.   Notification that failure to comply with the requirements of this
Chapter, including parking and occupancy standards, as well as public and
private nuisance standards, is a violation of the Town Code, and that such
violation may result in enforcement actions to address the violation. These may
include actions to abate the nonconformity, the institution of criminal, civil,
or administrative actions, or, under certain circumstances, the calling of law
enforcement for the removal of guest occupants and their vehicles from the
property to the extent authorized by law. The notification shall state in a
prominent format that users of the unit are prohibited from disturbing the
peace of the surrounding neighborhood and that doing so is a violation of this
Chapter.
      6.   Location of utility emergency shut off valves (including how to
access valves and, if necessary, tools needed for such purposes).
      7.   Phone numbers of local emergency medical and law enforcement
services.
      8.   Property boundary map for the purpose of exterior property
recreational activities and parking to deter trespassing on other privately
owned properties.
      9.   Notice that noise monitoring equipment has been installed on the
property. (Ord. 312, 3-5-2024)
5.40.070: ADDITIONAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
The following are additional development standards, in addition to those zoning
standards established for single family residential structures as contained in
Article 2, Zoning Districts and Development Standards, and Article 3,
Development Standards, of Title 9, Development Code, of the Yucca Valley Town
Code.
   A.   Zoning Districts: STVRs shall be allowed in all Zoning Districts as
established on the Yucca Valley Zoning Map. Nonconforming single-family
residences with a TSTVR license located in Commercial or Industrial zoning
districts shall not register complaints against existing Commercial or
Industrial uses for regular Commercial or Industrial operations.
   B.   Number of Units Per Parcel: Multiple, eligible, habitable, single-
family residential structures may be rented under not more than one temporary
short-term rental permit.
   C.   Notice:
      1.   Following any action to approve a permit application for a short-
term vacation rental, the Director shall cause notice to be provided to all
property owners and tenants within three hundred (300) feet of the proposed
short-term vacation rental site, indicating the approval granted.
      2.   The notice of approval to surrounding property owners shall also
provide name, email address, and phone number of the “local contact person”
designated for the short-term vacation rental unit.
   D.   Eligibility: A legal conforming or nonconforming single family
residential dwelling unit or habitable, residential accessory structure for
purpose of establishing a temporary short-term vacation rental shall be located
on a parcel containing a primary use or shall be located contiguous to a parcel
under common ownership that contains a primary use, and shall not be permitted
more than one temporary short-term vacation rental permit regardless of the
number of parcels. (Ord. 312, 3-5-2024)
5.40.080: NUISANCE RESPONSE PLANS:
   A.   Each nuisance response plan accompanying an application for a permit
required by this Chapter shall contain the following information and otherwise
be in a form required by the Director. The nuisance response plan shall address
potential violations of the Yucca Valley Town Code including windblown trash,
trash cans placed out before or after trash collection day, excessively loud
music, night sky and other lighting violations, parties, loud noises, excessive
vehicles, excessive guests, loud parties, and trespassing onto adjoining or
surrounding properties. Nuisance response plans that do not adequately address
how violations shall be addressed by management operations with the renters in
accordance with this Chapter or that do not contain the required information as
established by this Chapter or the Director shall result in denial of the
temporary short-term vacation rental permit. No application for the same
property may be resubmitted to the Town within a twelve (12) month period.
Nuisance response plans shall include the following:
      1.   The name, mailing address, email address and telephone number of the
owner or owners of the residential dwelling unit or units to be used as a
short-term vacation rental pursuant to the permit.
      2.   The name, address, email address, and telephone number of the person
or persons who will be available by telephone, and who will be responsible for
promptly responding to or causing a prompt response to a nuisance complaint
arising out of the occupancy or use of the short-term vacation rental unit(s)
by occupants, their visitors and/or their guests. For the purposes of this
Chapter, a return telephone call to a complainant, and the ability to be on-
site, within thirty (30) minutes of the initial complaint shall be deemed
“prompt.” Documentation shall be provided with the application that clearly
illustrates the ability for any responding individual to be on-site within the
thirty (30) minute time frame.
      3.   The manner of responding to or causing a response to a nuisance
complaint, including, but not limited to, the manner in which the complainant
or complainants will be notified of the response and the method of documenting
prompt responses and timely corrective action.
      4.   The manner of assuring timely corrective action to remedy the
conditions that caused the nuisance complaint. For the purposes of this
Chapter, “timely corrective action” shall include, at a minimum, a telephone
call or text message to the primary adult occupant of the short-term vacation
rental within fifteen (15) minutes of the initial nuisance complaint. Timely
corrective action shall also include being on-site within thirty (30) minutes
of the initial nuisance complaint.
      5.   The proposed maximum number of overnight occupants, with supporting
documentation identifying unusual size, interior layout, parking, or other
physical characteristics, if any, that support a request for occupancy greater
than two (2) persons per bedroom.
      6.   The number of off-street parking spaces and number of bedrooms
available at the short-term vacation rental unit.
      7.   Any other information deemed necessary by the Director.
   B.   At any time, the owner or owners of a short-term vacation rental unit
may change the content of the nuisance response plan approved incidental to the
issuance of the permit by filing an amended response plan with the permit
administrator. Such amended response plan shall contain all the information and
be in the form required by this Section and shall be accompanied by an amended
response plan fee in an amount established by the Council by resolution. (Ord.
312, 3-5-2024)
5.40.090: MAXIMUM NUMBER OF TEMPORARY SHORT-TERM VACATION RENTAL PERMITS:
   A.   At no time shall the number of Temporary Short-Term Vacation Rental
Permits issued exceed ten percent (10%) of the Town’s official inventory of
detached single-family residential dwelling units. The Director shall annually,
in January of each calendar year, adopt the official inventory number of
detached single-family residential dwelling units within the Town. The official
inventory shall only be adjusted once each calendar year.
   B.   After the maximum number of issued Temporary Short-Term Vacation Rental
Permits is reached, completed applications shall be placed on a waiting list in
the order received.
   C.   No additional TSTVRP shall be issued until an existing TSTVRP has
expired, been revoked, or is no longer operational. Upon a TSTVRP expiring,
being revoked or no longer in operation, the Director shall cause the next
complete application on the waiting list to be processed in accordance with
this Chapter. (Ord. 312, 3-5-2024)
5.40.100: RECORDKEEPING DUTIES:
The owner or the owner’s authorized agent or representative shall maintain, for
a period of three (3) years, records in such form as may be required by the tax
administrator (as defined in
Chapter 3.24 ) to determine the amount of transient occupancy tax owed to the
Town. The tax administrator shall have the right to inspect such records at all
reasonable times, which may be subject to the subpoena by the tax administrator
pursuant to
Chapter 3.24  (Transient Occupancy Tax) of the Town Code. (Ord. 312, 3-5-2024)
5.40.110: PERMIT ADMINISTRATION, AMENDMENTS, REVOCATIONS AND VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Additional Conditions: A violation of any provision of this Chapter by
any of the occupants, responsible party(ies), owner(s) or the owner’s
authorized agent(s) or representative(s) shall authorize the Director to impose
additional conditions on the use of any active short-term vacation rental unit
to ensure that any future violations are avoided. The Director shall provide
ten (10) days’ notice prior to the imposition of additional conditions. The
owner may appeal the imposition of additional conditions by submitting a notice
of appeal to the Director within 10 days of receiving the notice from the
Director. The notice of appeal shall set forth the reasons and evidence that
support the owner’s position that additional conditions are not necessary to
avoid future violations. The notice of appeal shall be accompanied by an appeal
fee, as set by the Town Council by resolution. The appeal shall be heard in
accordance with subsection (b) of this section.
   B.   Appeal of Additional Permit Conditions: Any appeal of additional
conditions imposed by the Director in accordance with this section shall be
heard by the Town Manager. The appeal hearing shall be set no more than 30 days
from the Town’s receipt of the notice of appeal. Imposition of the additional
condition shall be stayed until the conclusion of the appeal. At the appeal
hearing, the Town Manager shall hear and consider all relevant evidence and
receive testimony. The hearing shall not be conducted in accordance with the
California Evidence Code. Hearsay evidence may be used for the purpose of
supplementing or explaining any direct evidence, but shall not be sufficient in
itself to support a finding unless it would be admissible over objection in
civil actions in courts of competent jurisdiction in this state. Any relevant
evidence shall be considered if it is the type of evidence on which reasonable
persons are accustomed to rely in the conduct of similar affairs, regardless of
the existence of any common law or statutory rule which might make improper the
admission of such evidence over objection in civil actions in courts of
competent jurisdiction in this state. The hearing may be continued by the Town
Manager from time to time. Within ten (10) days of the conclusion of the
hearing, the Town Manager shall issue a decision as to whether the additional
conditions are necessary to avoid future violations at the STVR property in
question. The Town Manager shall have the authority to affirm, modify, or
reject the conditions imposed by the Director. The decision of the Town Manager
shall be final.
   C.   Permit Suspension or Revocation: Any request for a permit suspension or
revocation by the Director based on violations of this Chapter shall be
conducted in accordance with the terms and provisions of this subsection (c).
The owner of a STVR unit subject to a permit suspension or revocation hearing
shall be provided with not less than 20 days’ notice prior to the day of the
hearing. The hearing shall be conducted by the Town Manager. The Town Manager
shall hear and consider all relevant evidence and receive testimony. The
hearing shall not be conducted in accordance with the California Evidence Code.
Hearsay evidence may be used for the purpose of supplementing or explaining any
direct evidence, but shall not be sufficient in itself to support a finding
unless it would be admissible over objection in civil actions in courts of
competent jurisdiction in this state. Any relevant evidence shall be considered
if it is the type of evidence on which reasonable persons are accustomed to
rely in the conduct of similar affairs, regardless of the existence of any
common law or statutory rule which might make improper the admission of such
evidence over objection in civil actions in courts of competent jurisdiction in
this state. The hearing may be continued by the Town Manager from time to time.
Within ten (10) days of the conclusion of the hearing, the Town Manager shall
issue a decision regarding the suspension or revocation of the permit for the
STVR property in question. The Town Manager shall have the authority to approve
the permit suspension or revocation, modify the existing conditions of the
permit, or reject the permit suspension or revocation request. The decision of
the Town Manager shall be final.
   D.   Enforcement and Violations: A violation of any provision of this
Chapter by any of the occupant(s), responsible party(ies), owner(s) or the
owner’s authorized agent(s) or representative(s) shall constitute grounds for
modification, suspension and/or revocation of the short-term vacation rental
permit and/or any affiliated licenses or permits, in addition to public
nuisance violation procedures of the Town Code as defined and established in
the Town Code.
   E.   The owner shall agree to the conditions of approval and permit
requirements, in additional to all other standards and conditions as
implemented under
Chapter 5.40 , as follows.
      1.   As the owner, I fully understand that the permit authorizes short-
term vacation rental activity in a residential neighborhood in the Town of
Yucca Valley. Yucca Valley residents value the tranquility, peace, quiet, night
sky, and low-density desert characteristics of their neighborhoods. Activities
associated with the operation of the short-term vacation rental that disturbs,
disrupts, and impedes the general enjoyment of the desert character and
qualities that Yucca Valley residents value may result in the issuance of
operational penalties, infraction citations, misdemeanor citations and other
court actions, up to and including the revocation of the permit, in accordance
with Chapter 5.40, these conditions of approval and the Town of Yucca Valley
Town Code.
      2.   As the owner, I fully understand that these Conditions of Approval
are for Temporary Short-Term Vacation Rental Permit, TSTVRP XX-XX. The
residential structure is located at (address) and is also identified as APN:
XXX-XXX-XX. The approved permit is subject to compliance with these conditions
of approval. Pursuant to
Chapter 5.40  of the Town of Yucca Valley Development Code, effective December
1, 2017, a Temporary Short-Term Vacation Rental Permit is a temporary permit
and approval is valid for a twenty-four (24) month period. The Town is not
obligated or required to renew the permit or to extend the permit beyond the
twenty-four (24) month approval period. The Town Council may conclude and close
the short-term vacation rental program at any time. This permit is issued to
the owner, this permit does not run with the land or structure, and this permit
is not transferrable.
      3.   As the owner, I fully understand that verified trespass by guest
occupants onto any adjoining, adjacent or property in the vicinity of the
short- term vacation rental unit may result in revocation or suspension of the
temporary short-term vacation rental permit. The permit suspension or
revocation hearing shall be administered by the Town Manager, and the decision
of the Town Manager shall be final. (Ord. 312, 3-5-2024)
5.40.120: VERIFIED SHORT-TERM VACATION RENTAL PERMIT OPERATIONAL VIOLATIONS:
Verified operational violations of
Chapter 5.40  and of any and/or all conditions of approval, at a minimum, shall
result in the following.
   A.   $1,500.00 fine paid to the Town of Yucca Valley for the first verified
operational violation.
   B.   $3,500.00 fine paid to the Town of Yucca Valley for the second verified
operational violation within twelve (12) months.
   C.   $5,000.00 fine paid to the Town of Yucca Valley for the third verified
operational violation within twelve (12) months.
In addition to the fines set forth in this section, in the event of a
violation, the Director may seek to add conditions, suspend, or revoke the
permit in accordance with Section
5.40.140 . (Ord. 312, 3-5-2024)
5.40.130: DIRECTOR’S MEETINGS:
When verifiable complaints are received, the Director may schedule a review of
the Temporary Short-Term Vacation Rental Permit. The Director shall notify the
owner and all property owners within three hundred (300) feet of the short-term
vacation rental unit no less than twenty (20) days in advance of the Director’s
meeting.
Attendance by the property owner or owner representative or authorized agent is
mandatory. Failure of the owner to attend shall result in a suspension or
revocation hearing in accordance with this Chapter. (Ord. 312, 3-5-2024)
5.40.140: EXPIRATION OF PERMITS:
Permits expire on the date of expiration listed on the permit. No renewal
application can be processed if it has expired prior to the permit renewal
application being filed with the Town. (Ord. 312, 3-5-2024)
5.40.150: ABANDONMENT:
Applications which do not include all required information shall be deemed
incomplete within thirty (30) calendar days from application submittal. After
applicant’s notice of incomplete application is sent, the application must be
complete within forty-five (45) calendar days or application will be deemed
abandoned. (Ord. 312, 3-5-2024)
5.40.160: APPLICATION WAITING LIST PROCEDURE:
As detailed in
5.40.090 , after the maximum number of issued Temporary Short-Term Vacation
Rental Permits is reached, completed applications shall be placed on a waiting
list in the order received. The temporary short-term vacation rental permit
application shall be accompanied by a waitlist fee as established by resolution
of the Town Council. When a TSTVR permit becomes available, application(s) on
the waiting list will be processed in the order received. (Ord. 312, 3-5-2024)
5.40.170: TRANSFERABILITY:
A TSTVR license may be transferred if the following conditions have been met:
   A.   The TSTVR license has not expired.
   B.   No verifiable complaints have been made against the TSTVR.
   C.   The TSTVR purchaser has paid all TSTVR license fees and submitted all
application materials.
   D.   The TSTVR seller and the TSTVR purchaser have submitted a notarized
acknowledgment of the sale of the TSTVR and the transfer of the TSTVR license.
(Ord. 312, 3-5-2024)
TITLE 6
HEALTH AND SANITATION
CHAPTER 6.02
SOLID WASTE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
SECTION:
Part I. General Provisions
6.02.100: Purpose; Findings
6.02.110: Definitions
Part II. Solid Waste Management
6.02.200: Collection Arrangements Required
6.02.210: Containers - Use; Placement For Collection; Storage
6.02.220: Clean-Up
6.02.230: Disposal Frequency
Part III. Franchises And Self-Hauling
6.02.300: Provision Of Solid Waste Handling Service
6.02.310: Solid Waste Franchises
6.02.320: Manner, Time And Frequency Of Collection
6.02.330: Liability For Solid Waste Collection Fees
6.02.340: Self-Hauling
6.02.350: AB 939 Fees
Part IV. Non-Organic Recyclables, Green Waste, And C&D Materials
6.02.400: Non-Organic Recyclables - Ownership, Right To Dispose
6.02.410: Landscapers - Disposal Of Green Waste
6.02.420: Licensed Contractors - Disposal Of C&D Materials
Part V. Organic Waste
6.02.500: Compliance With AB 1826 And SB 1383
6.02.510: Requirements For Single-Family Generators
6.02.520: Requirements For Commercial Businesses
6.02.530: Waivers For Generators
6.02.540: Requirements For Commercial Edible Food Generators
6.02.550: Requirements For Food Recovery Organizations And Services
6.02.560: Requirements For Haulers, Facility Operators And Community Composting
Operations
6.02.570: Compliance With CALGreen Recycling Requirements
6.02.580: Model Water Efficient Landscaping Ordinance (MWELO) Requirements
Part VI. Prohibited Acts
6.02.600: Use Of Containers
6.02.610: Removal Of Solid Waste
6.02.620: Bulky Waste
6.02.630: Hazardous Waste
6.02.640: Solid Waste Burning
6.02.650: Franchise Required
6.02.660: Public Nuisance
6.02.670: Unauthorized Disposal
6.02.680: Spills
6.02.690: Unlawful Dumping
6.02.695: Solid Waste Facilities
Part VII. Enforcement
6.02.700: Inspections And Investigations By The Town
6.02.710: Enforcement
6.02.720: Violation
6.02.730: Misdemeanor
6.02.740: Attorney's Fees
6.02.750: Impounding Of Containers
PART I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
6.02.100: PURPOSE; FINDINGS:
   A.   Purpose: The management and proper disposal of solid waste is a matter
of great importance to the Town, its citizens, visitors, property owners and
businesses. The Town finds that the public health, safety, and well-being
require the generation, accumulation, handling, collection, transportation,
conversion and disposal of solid waste be controlled and regulated by the Town
through the comprehensive system provided in this Chapter. This Chapter is
intended to ensure solid waste handling services are readily available, adhere
to uniform standards, and are reliable, clean, and efficient. The Town has a
strong interest in reducing the harboring and breeding of rodents and insects,
reducing the spread of disease, and preventing pollution and other unsightly
degradation of the environment, which can occur with the improper handling of
solid waste and the excess accumulation of solid waste.
   B.   Findings: The Town finds and declares:
      1.   Article XI, § 7 of the California Constitution authorizes cities to
make and enforce within their limits all local, police, sanitary, and other
ordinances and regulations not in conflict with general laws.
      2.   The Legislature of the State of California, by enactment of the
California Integrated Waste Management Act of 1989, ("AB 939" or the "Act")
(codified at Cal. Public Resources Code sections 4000 et seq.) established a
solid waste management process that requires cities and other local
jurisdictions to adopt and implement plans to reduce the amount of solid waste
generated within their jurisdiction and to maximize reuse and recycling.
      3.   AB 939 states that the frequency of solid waste collection, the
means of solid waste collection and transportation, levels of services, charges
and fees for services, and the nature, location and extent of providing solid
waste services, are matters of local concern.
      4.   AB 939 expressly allows cities to provide solid waste services to
its residents by its own forces or by authorizing a private entity to provide
those services.
      5.   This Chapter implements Article XI, § 7 of the California
Constitution and AB 939 in the Town of Yucca Valley and protects public health
and safety by authorizing the Town Council to provide solid waste franchisee
service itself or to award one or more franchises to private entities. (Ord.
289, 5-19-2020; amd. Ord. 301, 6-7-2022)
6.02.110: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this Chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this Section.
AB 939 or     The California Integrated Waste Management Act of 1989, codified in part at Cal.
ACT:          Public Resources Code, sections 40000 et seq. as it may be amended, and as
              implemented by the regulations of CalRecycle or its successor agency.
ACCOUNT       The persons or entities whose name(s) are on a solid waste franchisee's account for
HOLDER:       a premises.
BINS:         A receptacle, typically between one (1) and six (6) cubic yards, provided by a solid
              waste franchisee for the collection of solid waste.
BLUE          Has the same meaning as in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(5) and shall be used for the
CONTAINER:    purpose of storage and collection of source separated recyclable materials or source
              separated blue container organic waste.
              Solid waste that cannot and/or would not typically be accommodated within a cart
              including specifically: furniture (including chairs, sofas, mattresses, and rugs);
              appliances (including refrigerators with and without Freon, ranges, washers, dryers,
              water heaters, dishwashers, plumbing, small household appliances and other similar
              items, commonly known as "white goods"); residential wastes (including wood waste,
              tree branches, scrap wood, in the aggregate not exceeding one (1) cubic yard per
              collection); and clothing. For purposes of this agreement, and notwithstanding any
              provision hereof to the contrary, BULKY ITEMS shall specifically items commonly
              known in the waste industry as "brown goods," "e-waste" and "universal waste"
BULKY WASTE:  (including, without limitation all types of electronic waste, stereos, televisions,
              computers and monitors, cellular phones, VCRs, microwaves and other similar type of
              equipment and products). BULKY ITEMS do not include car bodies, construction and
              demolition (C&D) debris or (with the exception of appliances/white goods described
              above) items that cannot reasonably and safely be loaded and unloaded into a vehicle
              by two (2) people using equipment of the type which, pursuant to industry standards,
              would normally be carried in a vehicle used in collecting BULKY ITEMS. In the event
              a question arises as to whether specific items, or category of items meets the
              definition of BULKY ITEMS, Town shall be responsible to determine whether said
              definition shall apply, which determination shall be final and binding on the
              parties.
              California’s Department of Resources Recycling and Recovery, which is the Department
CALRECYCLE:   designated with responsibility for developing, implementing, and enforcing SB 1383
              Regulations on jurisdictions (and others).
CALIFORNIA    The State of California Code of Regulations. CCR references are preceded with a
CODE OF       number that refers to the relevant Title of the CCR (e.g., “14 CCR” refers to Title
REGULATIONS   14 of CCR).
or CCR:
              A plastic container, typically thirty five (35), sixty four (64) and ninety six (96)
CART:         gallons, provided by a solid waste franchisee, with a hinged lid and wheels serviced
              by an automated or semi-automated process, as opposed to a manual process of lifting
              and dumping.
              A firm, partnership, proprietorship, joint-stock company, corporation, or
COMMERCIAL    association, whether for- profit or nonprofit, strip mall, industrial facility, or a
BUSINESS or   multifamily residential dwelling, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR Section 18982(a)
COMMERCIAL:   (6). A multi- family residential dwelling that consists of fewer than five (5) units
              is not a commercial business for purposes of implementing this chapter.
COMMERCIAL    Includes a Tier One or a Tier Two Commercial Edible Food Generator as defined in 14
EDIBLE FOOD   CCR Section 18982(a)(73) and (a)(74). For the purposes of this definition, Food
GENERATOR:    Recovery Organization and Food Recovery Services are not Commercial Edible Food
              Generators.
COMPLIANCE    A review of records by the Town to determine compliance with this Chapter.
REVIEW:
              Any activity that composts green material, agricultural material, food material, and
COMMUNITY     vegetative food material, alone or in combination, and the total amount of feedstock
COMPOSTING:   and compost on-site at any one time does not exceed one hundred (100) cubic yards
              and seven hundred fifty (750) square feet, as specified in 14 CCR Section 17855(a)
              (4); or, as otherwise defined by 14 CCR Section 18982(a)(8).
COMPOST:      Has the same meaning as in 14 CCR Section 17896.2(a)(4), as may be amended from time
              to time.
COMPOST       A solid waste facility that processes organic waste to produce compost or mulch.
FACILITY:
CONSTRUCTION  Discarded building materials, “inert wastes” as defined in Cal. Public Resources
AND           Code section 41821.3(a)(1) (e.g. rock, concrete, brick, sand, soil ceramics and
DEMOLITION    cured asphalt), recyclable construction and demolition materials, packaging,
(C&D)         plaster, drywall, rubble resulting from construction, remodeling, repair and
MATERIAL:     demolition operations, but does not include asbestos-containing materials or
              hazardous waste.
CONTAINER:    Any container, regardless of color.
CONTAINER
CONTAMINATION A container, regardless of color, that contains prohibited container contaminants,
or            or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR section 18982(a)(55).
CONTAMINATED
CONTAINER:
              A container, typically ten (10) to forty (40) cubic yards, provided by a solid waste
DEBRIS BOX:   franchisee for the collection of solid waste that is normally tipped loaded onto a
              motor vehicle and transported to an appropriate facility.
              An entity that the Town contracts with or otherwise arranges to carry out any of the
DESIGNEE:     Town’s responsibilities of the Chapter as authorized in 14 CCR section 18981.2. A
              designee may be a government entity, a hauler, a private entity, or a combination of
              those entities.
              Food intended for human consumption, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR section 18982
              (a)(18). For the purposes of this Chapter or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR section
EDIBLE FOOD:  18982(a)(18), EDIBLE FOOD is not solid waste if it is recovered and not discarded.
              Nothing in this Chapter or in 14 CCR, Division 7, Chapter 12 requires or authorizes
              the recovery of edible food that does not meet the food safety requirements of the
              California Retail Food Code.
ENFORCEMENT   An action by the Town to address non-compliance with this Chapter including, but not
ACTION:       limited to, issuing administrative citations, fines, penalties, or using other
              remedies.
ENFORCEMENT   The Town Manager or their authorized designee(s) who is/are partially or wholly
OFFICIAL:     responsible for enforcing this Chapter.
              Hazardous substance, hazardous waste, infectious waste, designated waste, volatile,
              corrosive, medical waste, infectious, regulated radioactive waste, and toxic
              substances or material that facility operator(s), which receive materials from the
              Town and its generators, reasonably believe(s) would, as a result of or upon
              acceptance, transfer, processing, or disposal, be a violation of local, State, or
              Federal law, regulation, or ordinance, including: land use restrictions or
EXCLUDED      conditions, waste that cannot be disposed of in Class III landfills or accepted at
WASTE:        the facility by permit conditions, waste that in the Town, or its designee’s
              reasonable opinion would present a significant risk to human health or the
              environment, cause a nuisance or otherwise create or expose the Town, or its
              designee, to potential liability; but not including de minimis volumes or
              concentrations of waste of a type and amount normally found in single-family or
              multi-family solid waste after implementation of programs for the safe collection,
              processing, recycling, treatment, and disposal of batteries and paint in compliance
              with sections 41500 and 41802 of the Cal. Public Resources Code.
FOOD          A company that distributes food to entities including, but not limited to,
DISTRIBUTOR:  supermarkets and grocery stores, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR section 18982(a)
              (22).
FOOD          Has the same meaning as in section 113789 of the Cal. Health and Safety Code.
FACILITY:
FOOD          Actions to collect and distribute food for human consumption that otherwise would be
RECOVERY:     disposed, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR section 18982(a)(24).
              An entity that engages in the collection or receipt of edible food from commercial
              edible food generators and distributes that edible food to the public for food
              recovery either directly or through other entities or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR
              section 18982(a)(25), including, but not limited to:
              1. A food bank as defined in section 113783 of the Cal. Health and Safety Code;
              2. A nonprofit charitable organization as defined in section 113841 of the Cal.
FOOD RECOVERY Health and Safety Code; and
ORGANIZATION: 3. A nonprofit charitable temporary food facility as defined in section 113842 of
              the Cal. Health and Safety Code.
              A food recovery organization is not a commercial edible food generator for the
              purposes of this chapter and implementation of 14 CCR, Division 7, Chapter 12
              pursuant to 14 CCR section 18982(a)(7).
              If the definition in 14 CCR section 18982(a)(25) for food recovery organization
              differs from this definition, the definition in 14 CCR section 18982(a)(25) shall
              apply to this Chapter.
              A person or entity that collects and transports edible food from a commercial edible
              food generator to a food recovery organization or other entities for food recovery,
FOOD RECOVERY or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR section 18982(a)(26). A food recovery service is
SERVICE:      not a commercial edible food generator for the purposes of this chapter and
              implementation of 14 CCR, Division 7, Chapter 12 pursuant to 14 CCR section 18982(a)
              (7).
              An entity primarily engaged in providing food services to institutional,
FOOD SERVICE  governmental, commercial, or industrial locations of others based on contractual
PROVIDER:     arrangements with these types of organizations, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR
              section 18982(a)(27).
GRAY          Has the same meaning as in 14 CCR section 18982(a)(2) and shall be used for the
CONTAINER:    purpose of storage and collection of gray container waste.
GRAY          Solid waste that is collected in a gray container as specified in 14 CCR sections
CONTAINER     18984.1(a) and (b), or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR section 17402(a)(6.5). Gray
WASTE:        container waste may specifically include carpet, non-compostable paper and textiles.
GREEN         Has the same meaning as in 14 CCR section 18982(a)(2() and shall be used for the
CONTAINER:    purpose of storage and collection of source separated green container organic waste.
              Leaves, grass clippings, brush, branches and other forms of organic materials
              generated from maintenance or alteration of landscapes or gardens including, but not
GREEN         limited to, tree trimmings, prunings, brush and weeds and incidental pieces of scrap
MATERIAL and  lumber. GREEN MATERIAL includes holiday trees (except such trees which are frosted,
YARD WASTE:   flocked or which contain tinsel or metal), but does not include stumps or branches
              exceeding four inches (4") in diameter or four feet (4') in length, or palm fronds,
              or yucca, which are not suitable for composting.
              A store primarily engaged in the retail sale of canned food; dry goods; fresh fruits
GROCERY       and vegetables; fresh meats, fish, and poultry; and any area that is not separately
STORE:        owned within the store where the food is prepared and served, including a bakery,
              deli, and meat and seafood departments, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR section
              18982(a)(30).
HAULER ROUTE: The designated itinerary or sequence of stops for each segment of the Town’s
              collection service area, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR section 18982(a)(31.5).
              Any waste materials or mixture of wastes defined as a HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE or
              HAZARDOUS WASTE pursuant to the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (“RCRA”), 42
              U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq., the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and
              Liability Act (“CERCLA”), 42 U.S.C. §§ 9601 et seq., the Carpenter-Presley- Tanner
              Hazardous Substance Account Act (“HSAA”), codified at Cal. Health and Safety Code §
HAZARDOUS     § 25300 et seq.; the Electronic Waste Recycling Act of 2003, codified at Cal. Health
WASTE:        and Safety Code §§ 25214.9 et seq. and Cal. Public Resources Code §§ 41516 et seq.,
              laws governing universal waste, all future amendments to any of them, or as defined
              by CalRecycle or the Department of Toxic Substances Control, or by their respective
              successor agencies. If there is a conflict in the definitions employed by two (2) or
              more agencies having jurisdiction over hazardous or solid waste, the term HAZARDOUS
              WASTE shall be construed to have the broader, more encompassing definition.
HIGH
DIVERSION
ORGANIC WASTE Has the same meaning as defined in 14 CCR section 18982(a)(33).
PROCESSING
FACILITY:
              Hazardous waste, including universal waste or covered electronic devices, generated
              at a single- family or multifamily residential premises, including but not limited
HOUSEHOLD     to dry cell household batteries; cell phones and PDAs; used motor oil; used oil
HAZARDOUS     filters when contained in a sealed plastic bag; cooking oil; compact fluorescent
WASTE:        light bulbs contained in a sealed plastic bag; cleaning products; pesticides;
              herbicides; insecticides; painting supplies; automotive products; solvents; stripes;
              and adhesives; auto batteries; and universal waste generated at a single-family or
              multifamily residential premises.
              A site visit where the town reviews records, containers, and an entity’s collection,
INSPECTION:   handling, recycling, or landfill disposal of organic waste or edible food handling
              to determine if the entity is complying with requirements set forth in this Chapter,
              or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR section 18982(a)(35).
              An event, including, but not limited to, a sporting event or a flea market, that
              charges an admission price, or is operated by a local agency, and serves an average
              of more than two thousand (2,000) individuals per day of operation of the event, at
LARGE EVENT:  a location that includes, but is not limited to, a public, nonprofit, or privately
              owned park, parking lot, golf course, street system, or other open space when being
              used for an event. If the definition in 14 CCR section 18982(a)(38) differs from
              this definition, the definition in 14 CCR section 18982(a)(38) shall apply.
              A permanent venue facility that annually seats or serves an average of more than two
              thousand (2,000) individuals within the grounds of the facility per day of operation
              of the venue facility. For purposes of this Chapter and implementation of 14 CCR,
              Division 7, Chapter 12, a venue facility includes, but is not limited to, a public,
              nonprofit, or privately owned or operated stadium, amphitheater, arena, hall,
LARGE VENUE:  amusement park, conference or civic center, zoo, aquarium, airport, racetrack, horse
              track, performing arts center, fairground, museum, theater, or other public
              attraction facility. For purposes of this Chapter and implementation of 14 CCR,
              Division 7, Chapter 12, a site under common ownership or control that includes more
              than one large venue that is contiguous with other large venues in the site, is a
              single large venue. If the definition in 14 CCR section 18982(a)(39) differs from
              this definition, the definition in 14 CCR section 18982(a)(39) shall apply.
LOCAL         A school district, charter school, or county office of education that is not subject
EDUCATION     to the control of city or county regulations related to solid waste, or as otherwise
AGENCY:       defined in 14 CCR section 18982(a)(40).
MULTI-FAMILY
RESIDENTIAL   Of, from, or pertaining to residential premises with five (5) or more dwelling
DWELLING or   units. Multi-family premises do not include hotels, motels, or other transient
MULTI-        occupancy facilities, which are considered commercial businesses.
FAMILY:
MWELO:        Refers to the Model Water Efficient Landscape Ordinance (MWELO), 23 CCR, Division 2,
              Chapter 2.7.
NON-          Includes but is not limited to paper that is coated in a plastic material that will
COMPOSTABLE   not breakdown in the composting process, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR section
PAPER:        18982(a)(41).
NON-ORGANIC   Non-putrescible and non-hazardous recyclable wastes including but not limited to
RECYCLABLES:  bottles, cans, metals, plastics and glass, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR section
              18982(a)(43).
NOTICE OF     A notice that a violation of this Chapter has occurred that includes a compliance
VIOLATION     date to avoid an action to seek penalties, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR section
(NOV):        18982(a)(45) or further explained in 14 CCR section 18995.4.
              Solid wastes containing material originated from living organisms and their
              metabolic waste products, including but not limited to food, green material,
ORGANIC       landscape and pruning waste, organic textiles and carpets, lumber, wood, paper
WASTE:        products, printing and writing paper, manure, biosolids, digestate, and sludges or
              as otherwise defined in 14 CCR section 18982(a)(46). Biosolids and digestate are as
              defined by 14 CCR section 18982(a).
ORGANIC WASTE A person or entity that is responsible for the initial creation of organic waste, or
GENERATOR:    as otherwise defined in 14 CCR section 18982(a)(48).
OWNER:        The persons or entities listed on the last equalized assessment roll as the owner of
              a lot or parcel of real property within the Town.
PAPER         Include, but are not limited to, paper janitorial supplies, cartons, wrapping
PRODUCTS:     packaging, file folders, hanging files, corrugated boxes, tissue, and toweling, or
              as otherwise defined in 14 CCR section 18982(a)(51).
PERSON IN     An owner, tenant, occupant or other person or persons responsible for the day to day
CHARGE:       operation of a premises.
PREMISES:     Place where any person resides, or any business is carried on or conducted, or any
              other place upon which solid waste is generated or accumulated.
              Include, but are not limited to, copy, xerographic, watermark, cotton fiber, offset,
PRINTING AND  forms, computer printout paper, white wove envelopes, manila envelopes, book paper,
WRITING       note pads, writing tablets, newsprint, and other uncoated writing papers, posters,
PAPERS:       index cards, calendars, brochures, reports, magazines, and publications, or as
              otherwise defined in 14 CCR section 18982(a)(54).
              Means the following: (i) discarded materials placed in the blue container that are
              not identified as acceptable source separated recyclable materials for the town’s
PROHIBITED    blue container; (ii) discarded materials placed in the green container that are not
CONTAINER     identified as acceptable source separated green container organic waste for the
CONTAMINANTS: town’s green container; (iii) discarded materials placed in the gray container that
              are acceptable source separated recyclable materials and/or source separated green
              container organic wastes to be placed in the town’s green container and/or blue
              container; and (iv) excluded waste placed in any container.
RECOVERED     Products made from California, landfill-diverted recovered organic waste processed
ORGANIC WASTE in a permitted or otherwise authorized facility, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR
PRODUCTS:     section 18982(a)(60).
RECOVERY:     Any activity or process described in 14 CCR section 18983.1(b), or as otherwise
              defined in 14 CCR section 18982(a)(49).
RECYCLED-     Paper products and printing and writing paper that consists of at least thirty
CONTENT       percent (30%), by fiber weight, postconsumer fiber, or as otherwise defined in 14
PAPER:        CCR section 18982(a)(61).
              That solid waste discarded within the franchise area which is capable of being
              recycled, consistent with the requirements of AB 939, including, but not limited to
              the following:
              1.   Aluminum cans;
              2.   Glass jars and bottles;
              3.   Steel, bi-metal and tin cans, and empty aerosol containers;
              4.   Recyclable plastics;
              5.   PVC pipe;
RECYCLABLE    6.   Juice boxes and milk cartons (aseptic packaging, Tetra Pak, and waxed
MATERIAL or   cardboard);
RECYCLABLES:  7.   Detergent containers;
              8.   Scrap metal, coat hangers and metal foil;
              9.   Newspapers and telephone books;
              10.   Mixed paper (e.g., ledger, computer, junk mail, magazines, paperback books,
              cereal boxes, envelopes, paper shopping bags and non-metallic wrapping paper);
              11.   Corrugated cardboard and chipboard;
              12.   Chlorofluorocarbons (contained in bulky items set out for collection);
              13.   Wood (incidental scrap pieces of set out for collection with green material,
              and larger quantities if set out for collection with bulky items).
              The use of the internet of things (IoT) and/or wireless electronic devices to
REMOTE        visualize the contents of blue containers, green containers, and gray containers for
MONITORING:   purposes of identifying the quantity of materials in containers (level of fill) and/
              or presence of prohibited container contaminants.
              An establishment primarily engaged in the retail sale of food and drinks for on-
RESTAURANT:   premises or immediate consumption, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR section 18982
              (a)(64).
              A visual inspection of containers along a hauler route for the purpose of
ROUTE REVIEW: determining container contamination, and may include mechanical inspection methods
              such as the use of cameras, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR section 18982(a)(65).
              Senate Bill 1383 of 2016 approved by the Governor on September 19, 2016, which added
              sections 39730.5, 39730.6, 39730.7, and 39730.8 to the Cal. Health and Safety Code,
SB 1383:      and added Chapter 13.1 (commencing with section 42652) to Part 3 of Division 30 of
              the Cal. Public Resources Code, establishing methane emissions reduction targets in
              a Statewide effort to reduce emissions of short-lived climate pollutants as amended,
              supplemented, superseded, and replaced from time to time.
SB 1383       Means or refers to, for the purposes of this Chapter, the Short-Lived Climate
REGULATIONS   Pollutants: Organic Waste Reduction regulations developed by CalRecycle and adopted
or SB 1383    in 2020 that created 14 CCR, Division 7, Chapter 12 and amended portions of
REGULATORY:   regulations of 14 CCR and 27 CCR.
              The transportation of solid waste directly to a licensed or permitted landfill or
SELF-HAUL:    other licensed or permitted disposal facility by a person who has received a self-
              haul permit.
SELF-HAUL     A permit issued by the Town to self-haul under this Chapter.
PERMIT:
SINGLE        Of, from, or pertaining to any residential premises with fewer than five (5) units.
FAMILY:
              Has the same meaning as defined in Cal. Public Resources Code section 10491. SOLID
SOLID WASTE:  WASTE includes, but is not limited to, gray container waste, non-organic
              recyclables, and organic waste.
SOLID WASTE   Any individual, partnership, joint venture, unincorporated private organization, or
ENTERPRISE:   private corporation, which is regularly engaged in the business of providing solid
              waste handling services.
SOLID WASTE   A solid waste enterprise that has been granted the right and privilege by the Town,
FRANCHISEE:   or by operation of law, to perform one or more solid waste handling services within
              the Town or a portion thereof.
SOLID WASTE   The collection, transportation, processing, recycling, composting, conversion,
HANDLING      retention and disposal of solid waste, organic waste, recyclable materials,
SERVICES:     construction and demolition materials, bulky waste, household hazardous waste, and/
              or universal waste.
              Materials, including commingled recyclable materials, that have been separated or
              kept separate from the solid waste stream, at the point of generation, for the
              purpose of additional sorting or processing those materials for recycling or reuse
              in order to return them to the economic mainstream in the form of raw material for
SOURCE        new, reused, or reconstituted products, which meet the quality standards necessary
SEPARATED:    to be used in the marketplace, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR section 17402.5(b)
              (4). For the purposes of this Chapter, SOURCE SEPARATED shall include separation of
              materials by the generator, property owner, property owner’s employee, property
              manager, or property manager’s employee into different containers for the purpose of
              collection such that source separated materials are separated from gray container
              waste or other solid waste for the purposes of collection and processing.
SOURCE
SEPARATED     Source separated organic wastes that can be placed in a blue container that is
BLUE          limited to the collection of those organic wastes and non-organic recyclables as
CONTAINER     defined in section 18982(a)(43), or as otherwise defined by section 17402(a)(18.7).
ORGANIC
WASTE:
SOURCE
SEPARATED     Source separated organic waste that can be placed in a green container that is
GREEN         specifically intended for the separate collection of organic waste by the generator,
CONTAINER     excluding source separated blue container organic waste, carpets, non-compostable
ORGANIC       paper, and textiles.
WASTE:
SOURCE
SEPARATED     Source separated non-organic recyclables and source separated blue container organic
RECYCLABLE    waste.
MATERIALS:
              Deposited, released, spilled, leaked, pumped, poured, emitted, emptied, discharged,
              injected, dumped or disposed into the environment, or which otherwise has come to be
SPILLED:      located outside an authorized container. The term "disposed into the environment"
              shall include, but is not limited to, the abandonment or discarding of barrels,
              bags, cans and other closed receptacles containing solid waste.
STATE:        The State of California.
              A full-line, self-service retail store with gross annual sales of two million
SUPERMARKET:  dollars ($2,000,000), or more, and which sells a line of dry grocery, canned goods,
              or nonfood items and some perishable items, or as otherwise defined in 14 CCR
              section 18982(a)(71).
              A commercial edible food generator that is one of the following:
              1.   Supermarket.
              2.   Grocery store with a total facility size equal to or greater than 10,000 square
TIER ONE      feet.
COMMERCIAL    3.   Food service provider.
EDIBLE FOOD   4.   Food distributor.
GENERATOR:    5.   Wholesale food vendor.
              If the definition in 14 CCR section 18982(a)(73) of Tier One Commercial Edible Food
              Generator differs from this definition, the definition in 14 CCR section 18982(a)
              (73) shall apply.
              A commercial edible food generator that is one of the following:
              1.   Restaurant with two hundred fifty (250) or more seats, or a total facility size
              equal to or greater than five thousand (5,000) square feet.
              2.   Hotel with an on-site food facility and two hundred (200) or more rooms.
              3.   Health facility with an on-site food facility and one hundred (100) or more
TIER TWO      beds.
COMMERCIAL    4.   Large venue.
EDIBLE FOOD   5.   Large event.
GENERATOR:    6.   A State agency with a cafeteria with two hundred fifty (250) or more seats or
              total cafeteria facility size equal to or greater than five thousand (5,000) square
              feet.
              7.   A local education agency facility with an on-site food facility.
              If the definition in 14 CCR section 18982(a)(74) of Tier Two Commercial Edible Food
              Generator differs from this definition, the definition in 14 CCR section 18982(a)
              (74) shall apply.
              The Town of Yucca Valley, California, a municipal corporation, and all of the
TOWN:         territory lying within the municipal boundaries of the Town as presently existing
              and all geographic areas which may be added or annexed to the Town.
TOWN MANAGER: A person having that title in the employee of the Town of Yucca Valley, or the Town
              Manager’s designated representative.
TOWN          Town-owned or operated premises where solid waste is generated or accumulated.
PREMISES:
              Includes, but is not limited to, universal waste electronic devices or "UWEDs,"
              (i.e., electronic devices subject to the regulation of the Department of Toxic
              Substances Control, 23 CCR sections 66273.1, et seq.), and other universal wastes,
              including, but not limited to non-empty aerosol cans, fluorescent tubes, high
UNIVERSAL     intensity discharge lamps, sodium vapor lamps, and any other lamp exhibiting a
WASTE:        characteristic of a hazardous waste, batteries (rechargeable nickel-cadmium
              batteries, silver button batteries, mercury batteries, small sealed lead acid
              batteries (burglar alarm and emergency light batteries) alkaline batteries, carbon-
              zinc batteries and any other batteries which exhibit the characteristic of a
              hazardous waste), mercury thermometers, and mercury-containing switches.
              A business or establishment engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of food,
WHOLESALE     where food (including fruits and vegetables) is received, shipped, stored, prepared
FOOD VENDOR:  for distribution to a retailer, warehouse, distributor, or other destination, or as
              otherwise defined in 14 CCR section 189852(a)(76). (Ord. 289, 5-19-2020; amd. Ord.
              301, 6-7-2022)
 
PART II. SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
6.02.200: COLLECTION ARRANGEMENTS REQUIRED:
   A.   In order to protect the public health, safety and well-being, and to
prevent the spread of vectors, the person in charge of a premises in the Town
shall make arrangements with a solid waste franchisee for solid waste handling
services, and keep such arrangement in good standing. A violation of this
Section is a misdemeanor and punishable as provided in Article VII of this
Chapter.
   B.   All premises in the Town must have the applicable solid waste handling
services required under this Chapter. (Ord. 289, 5-19-2020; amd. Ord. 301, 6-7-
2022)
6.02.210: CONTAINERS - USE; PLACEMENT FOR COLLECTION; STORAGE:
   A.   Use: Every person in charge of a premises shall:
      1.   Keep on the premises a sufficient number of containers to hold all
solid waste, including gray container waste, non-organic recyclables, and
organic waste that accumulates on the premises each week without spilling,
leaking, or emitting odors. It shall be the duty of every person served to keep
the containers used in the service of such a person in a clean and sanitary
condition.
      2.   Deposit or cause to be deposited all solid waste, including gray
container waste, non-organic recyclables, and organic waste generated or
accumulated on the premises into the proper containers in accordance with the
provisions of this Chapter.
   B.   Placement For Collection: To minimize interference with public rights-
of-way, no person shall place a container in a public right-of-way for
collection by the appropriate solid waste franchisee more than twenty four (24)
hours prior to the normal collection time. Containers placed in a public right-
of-way for collection shall be removed from the right-of-way within twelve (12)
hours after collection.
   C.   Storage: Except during the time a cart or bin is placed for collection,
reasonable efforts shall be made to limit the visibility of containers from the
public right-of-way. A debris box may be placed in a location that is visible
from the public right-of-way at a single-family residential premises for up to
thirty (30) consecutive days and for no more than sixty (60) total days during
any twelve (12) month period.
   D.   Bins At Single-Family Premises:
      1.   Solid waste franchisee shall not supply bins to single-family
premises in place of containers, or otherwise use bins for solid waste handling
services at such premises; excepting, however, that bins may be used for solid
waste collection when requested by the person in charge of the single-family
premises when the lot upon which service is provided is equal to or greater
than one (1) acre in size, is zoned Rural Living (RL), or is provided an
exception permit from the Town Manager. Person in charge of single-family
premises that are permitted by the Town to keep large animals on their property
may apply for an exception permit from the Town Manager. The solid waste
franchisee must provide sufficient bins to hold all solid waste, including gray
container waste, non-organic recyclables, and organic waste that accumulates on
the premises each week without spilling, leaking, or emitting odors.
      2.   Bins may only be provided by solid waste franchisee if an enclosed
storage area exists, or they are otherwise kept on the premises in such a
manner as to not be visible from the public right-of-way.
      3.   Persons in charge of single-family premises who currently utilize
bins at their premises shall have until June 30, 2024, to either: (1) build an
enclosure following Town standards, or make reasonable efforts to limit the
visibility of bins from the public right-of-way; or (2) remove the bin from the
premises and have it replaced by containers. (Ord. 289, 5-19-2020; amd. Ord.
301, 6-7-2022)
6.02.220: CLEAN-UP:
   A.   Until solid waste has been picked up by the appropriate solid waste
franchisee, each person in charge of a premises shall be responsible for the
cleanup of any and all solid waste generated, accumulated or spilled on the
premises. This cleanup responsibility includes the cleanup of solid waste
spilled for any reason, including, but not limited to, human or animal
interference with a container, wind or other natural forces, at any time during
storage, collection, removal, or transfer of the materials.
   B.   The Town's solid waste franchisee(s) shall clean up any solid waste
spilled during its collection, removal, or transfer, as soon as the spill
occurs. (Ord. 289, 5-19-2020; amd. Ord. 301, 6-7-2022)
6.02.230: DISPOSAL FREQUENCY:
All solid waste accumulating upon a Premises must be disposed of as frequently
as required to avoid an accumulation of solid waste in violation of this
Chapter, but in no case shall disposal occur less frequently than one (1) time
per week, except that less than weekly disposal may be permitted during any
period of time the premises is temporarily unoccupied and solid waste is not
accumulating on the premises due to out-of-town travel or other similar
situations. (Ord. 289, 5-19-2020; amd. Ord. 301, 6-7-2022)
PART III. FRANCHISES AND SELF-HAULING
6.02.300: PROVISION OF SOLID WASTE HANDLING SERVICE:
   A.   The Town Council may grant franchises to one or more solid waste
enterprises to make arrangements with the persons in charge of premises within
the Town for solid waste handling services.
   B.   The Town Council may determine solid waste collection categories,
(e.g., single-family, commercial, construction and demolition materials,
household hazardous waste, universal waste, covered electronic devices,
recyclable materials, and others) and may make or impose franchise, license,
contract or permit requirements which may vary for such categories. (Ord. 289,
5-19-2020; amd. Ord. 301, 6-7-2022)
6.02.310: SOLID WASTE FRANCHISES:
   A.   The Town Council may award exclusive, partially exclusive, or non-
exclusive franchises for one or more types of solid waste handling services for
all or a portion of the premises in the Town. Any such franchise shall be in
the form of a written agreement, approved by the Town Council by written
resolution, and shall be subject to all of the continuation rights, if any,
held by any other solid waste enterprise pursuant to Public Resources Code
sections 49520 et seq. Where the franchise agreement is silent on an issue, the
provisions of this Chapter shall govern. Where a franchise agreement predates
the effective date of this Chapter, the provisions of the franchise agreement
shall govern over any inconsistent provisions contained in this Chapter.
   B.   Any franchise granted pursuant to Division A of this Section shall be
granted on such terms and conditions as the Town Council shall establish in its
sole discretion. At a minimum, the franchise shall provide:
      1.   The solid waste franchisee shall comply with the provisions of this
Chapter; and
      2.   The solid waste franchisee shall protect, defend, indemnify and hold
the Town harmless such acts, omissions, liabilities and damages caused by the
failure of the solid waste franchisee to comply with its franchise agreement;
and
      3.   The solid waste franchisee shall be required to cooperate with Town
in solid waste disposal characterization studies and the preparation of waste
stream audits, and to submit information required by the Town to meet the
reporting requirements of AB 939, or any other law or regulation, and to
implement measures consistent with the Town's source reduction and recycling
element to reach the solid waste and recycling goals mandated by the California
Integrated Waste Management Act of 1989, as it may be amended from time to
time. (Ord. 289, 5-19-2020; amd. Ord. 301, 6-7-2022)
6.02.320: MANNER, TIME AND FREQUENCY OF COLLECTION:
   A.   Regular Collection: The Town's solid waste franchisee(s) shall make
arrangements with its account holders specifying the manner in which solid
waste handling services are to be regularly provided, subject to the terms of
its franchise.
   B.   Special Collections: The Town's solid waste franchisee(s) may provide
on-call collection of bulky waste and household hazardous waste to its account
holders, and shall provide its account holders with debris boxes when requested
and collect the debris box when the account holder no longer requires the
debris box. The terms and conditions upon which such special collections are
provided to account holders shall be arranged between the solid waste
franchisee and the account holder, subject to the terms of the solid waste
franchisee's franchise from the Town. (Ord. 289, 5-19-2020; amd. Ord. 301, 6-7-
2022)
6.02.330: LIABILITY FOR SOLID WASTE COLLECTION FEES:
   A.   Joint And Several Liability: The owner of a premises and the account
holder for a premises are jointly and severally liable for solid waste handling
services provided to the premises by a solid waste franchisee, including any
related fees, charges, and penalties.
   B.   Tax Roll Billing: Pursuant to Health and Safety Code sections 5470 et
seq., the Town may collect fees or charges for solid waste handling services on
the property tax roll for the premises. If the Town decides to collect fees for
solid waste handling services or charges on the property tax roll, it shall
adhere to the following procedures:
      1.   Town will fix a time, date and place for hearing on the report of
the amount of fees and charges to be charged each premises by the solid waste
franchisee and any objections and protests to the report. The solid waste
franchisee shall publish and provide notice of the hearing on the report in
accordance with Health and Safety Code sections 5470 et seq. At the hearing,
Town shall hear any objections or protests of owners liable to be assessed for
fees. The Town may make revisions or corrections to the report as it deems
just, after which, by resolution, the report shall be confirmed.
      2.   The fees and charges set forth in the report as confirmed shall
constitute special assessments against the premises listed in the report and
are a lien on the premises for the amount of the fees and charges. A certified
copy of the confirmed report shall be filed with the San Bernardino County
Auditor for the amounts of the respective assessments against the respective
premises as they appear on the current assessment roll. The lien created
attaches upon recordation, in the office of the San Bernardino County Recorder,
of a certified copy of the resolution of confirmation. The assessment may be
collected at the same time and in the same manner as ordinary ad valorem
property taxes are collected and shall be subject to the same penalties and the
same procedure and sale in case of delinquency as provided for those taxes.
      3.   Town shall remit to its solid waste franchisee(s) amounts collected
pursuant to this process within thirty (30) days of receipt from the San
Bernardino County Assessor. Solid waste franchisee(s) shall notify the Town in
the event any delinquency on the report for which a lien has been created is
paid or otherwise resolved.
   C.   Delinquent Accounts: Any multi-family premises or commercial premises
that has a solid waste handling service account unpaid by the due date listed
on the solid waste franchisee's billing statement shall be deemed delinquent.
Except to the extent otherwise provided by this Chapter, it shall be the sole
responsibility of solid waste franchisee to take any authorized measures to
collect any delinquent sums owed. Any delinquent fees or solid waste handling
service charges to be imposed in connection with delinquent accounts shall be
set by solid waste franchisee and be subject to Town Manager review. Solid
waste franchisee may charge a fee for any check returned for insufficient funds
at a rate not exceeding the maximum rate set forth in the franchise agreement.
      1.   Solid waste franchisee may discontinue solid waste handling services
to any multi-family premises or commercial premises that is delinquent by sixty
(60) days or more. Prior to discontinuing service, solid waste franchisee shall
provide the person in charge with notice that solid waste handling services may
be discontinued fifteen (15) days from the date of notice if payment is not
made before that time. If payment is not made by the expiration of said fifteen
(15) day period, solid waste franchisee may discontinue solid waste handling
services forty eight (48) hours thereafter.
      2.   Solid waste franchisee shall resume solid waste franchisee services
on the next regularly scheduled collection day for any premises where solid
waste handling service was discontinued upon receipt of payment of all
outstanding charges, including delinquent fees, any deposit required by this
Section, and any fees for re-delivery of equipment, or at such sooner time as
directed to do so by Town. Solid waste franchisee may not charge for solid
waste handling services during any period in which solid waste handling service
was suspended. Any delinquent fees or service charges to be imposed in
connection with delinquent accounts shall be set by solid waste franchisee and
is subject to Town Manager approval.
      3.   A deposit equal to the maximum rate for one month's solid waste
handling services, as such rates may be amended from time to time, may be
required of accounts which have been discontinued for non-payment prior to re-
instituting solid waste handling service at such accounts.
      4.   Solid waste franchisee shall not be permitted to discontinue solid
waste handling services to any single-family premises on the basis of a
delinquent account. (Ord. 289, 5-19-2020; amd. Ord. 301, 6-7-2022)
6.02.340: SELF HAULING:
   A.   Because it is more difficult to transport larger volumes of solid waste
in a manner that is safe and sanitary, self-haul permits are available only to
single-family premises. The difficulty posed by self-hauling larger volumes of
solid waste pose an unwarranted threat to the public health, safety and
welfare, as it could lead to increased illegal dumping and burning, failure to
segregate recyclables and organic waste, unauthorized deposit of solid waste in
the containers of another, and the accumulation of solid waste at a premises
for more than one (1) week.
   B.   Permit Required: The person in charge of a single-family premises may
apply for and obtain a permit to self-haul and shall not self-haul without a
valid self-haul permit issued pursuant to this Section. Every person in charge
of a single-family premises who desires to self-haul in lieu of making
arrangements with the appropriate solid waste franchisee for solid waste
franchisee services shall obtain a self-haul permit from the Town Manager prior
to commencing self-hauling.
   C.   Term: A permit to self-haul shall be good for one calendar year, or
such part of the calendar year that is remaining after the issuance of the
permit. All self-haul permits shall expire on December 31, and may be renewed
annually. Application for a renewal permit must be filed at least sixty (60)
days prior to the expiration date of the permit to allow adequate time for
processing, inspection and verifications required to issue the permit.
   D.   Issuance Of Permit:
      1.   An applicant for a self-haul permit shall submit a completed
application, on a form approved by the Town Manager. The Town Manager shall
determine whether the application is complete within ten (10) working days of
the receipt of the application. If the Town Manager finds the application
incomplete, the applicant shall be given a list of further information needed
to complete the application.
      2.   After it is determined that an application for a self-haul permit is
complete, the applicant shall produce the items required by this Section. The
Town Manager shall issue a self-haul permit within ten (10) working days of the
production of all of the required items.
         a.   The applicant produces for inspection the vehicle the applicant
intends to use for self-hauling, and the vehicle meets the following standards:
            (1)   The vehicle is capable of safely hauling a minimum of thirty-
two (32) gallons (4.3 cubic feet) of solid waste, recyclable materials and
organic waste in a safe and sanitary manner so that such matter will not spill;
and
            (2)   If the vehicle is not fully enclosed, the applicant produces
a tarp or other material that is demonstrated to completely secure the
materials being self-hauled.
         b.   The applicant produces evidence that he or she owns or leases the
vehicle produced for inspection or has a written agreement to use the vehicle
for self-hauling with the vehicle's owner or lessor;
         c.   The applicant produces evidence that he or she has a valid
California driver's license to operate the vehicle produced for inspection and
that the vehicle is registered in the State of California;
         d.   The applicant provides the Town with a certificate of automobile
insurance for the vehicle;
         e.   The vehicle is operational and meets all applicable Vehicle Code
standards;
         f.   The applicant provides the Town with proof that the applicant has
containers for the storage of solid waste on the applicant's premises before
the materials are hauled to a disposal facility; and
         g.   The applicant provides proof that he/she has no outstanding
charges due to the Town's solid waste franchisee for solid waste franchisee
services previously received at the premises for which the self-hauling permit
application is being submitted; and
         h.   The applicant pays the fee for a self-haul permit authorized by
resolution of the Town Council. The fee shall reflect the Town's reasonable
costs of issuing and monitoring compliance with the permit. Permits issued
between January 1 and June 30 shall pay one hundred percent (100%) of the
permit fee; permits issued between July 1 and December 31 shall pay fifty
percent (50%) of the permit fee.
   E.   Appeal Of Denial: An applicant whose application for a self-haul permit
has been denied may appeal that decision. An appeal may be filed within five
(5) days of the date the applicant was notified of the denial. Appeals shall be
heard by the Town Manager, but shall not be heard by the same individual that
issued the denial. The decision of the Town Manager is final.
   F.   Operational Standards:
      1.   Permittees must dispose of gray container waste weekly at a licensed
or permitted landfill or disposal facility and shall procure and retain weekly
receipts from such landfill or other disposal facility. Receipts shall be
submitted to the Town upon request. Failure to show proof of gray container
waste disposal for each week that a person is permitted to self-haul shall
constitute a public health and safety nuisance sufficient to permit Town to
revoke the permittees' self-haul permit.
      2.   Permittees must separate and bag gray container waste, non-organic
recyclables, and organic waste. Non-organic recyclables shall be disposed of at
a licensed or permitted recycling center. Permittees shall haul source
separated organic waste to a solid waste facility operation, activity, or
property that processes or recovers source separated organic waste. Permittees
must notify the Town of any change in the vehicle being used to haul solid
waste by the permittee. Permittees must bring the new vehicle in for an
inspection and demonstrate compliance with this Section before the new vehicle
is used to haul any solid waste under the permit.
      3.   Permittee must keep on file with the Town copies of the current
automobile insurance and registration for the vehicle used to self-haul and the
permittee's current California driver's license. Permittee must provide proof
to Town of renewed automobile insurance, vehicle registration, and California
driver's license within five (5) days of expiration of respective document.
      4.   Permittees are liable for any damages and clean-up costs resulting
from any solid waste spills during the course of the permittees' self-hauling
activity.
   G.   Revocation Of Permit: The self-haul permit shall be subject to
revocation if the permittee violates any provision of this Chapter. A notice of
revocation shall be mailed to the permittee informing them that their self-haul
permit is being revoked, identifying the violations of this Chapter that have
occurred, and informing the permittee that he or she has the right to dispute
the revocation by an appeal to the Town Manager. An appeal of a revocation must
be filed within five (5) business days of the mailing of notice of the
revocation. A revocation appeal hearing will be scheduled within five (5)
business days of the date the Town receives the request for an appeal. The Town
Manager will issue a decision on the appeal within five (5) business days of
the hearing and provide the permittee written notice of the decision. The
decision of the Town Manager on the appeal shall be final. A person whose self-
haul permit has been revoked pursuant to this Division F may not obtain another
self-haul permit for one (1) year from the date of the revocation. (Ord. 301,
6-7-2022)
6.02.350: AB 939 FEES:
Pursuant to division 30, part 2, chapter 8 of the Public Resources Code,
sections 41900 et seq., the Town may impose fees on solid waste franchisees
and/or premises in amounts sufficient to pay the costs of preparing, adopting,
and implementing a countywide integrated waste management plan, including the
costs of preparing, adopting and implementing the Town's required source
reduction and recycling element, household hazardous waste element, and
nondisposal facility element, and the costs of setting and collecting the fees.
Any new or increased AB 939 fees imposed on a solid waste franchisee shall be
cause for a corresponding rate adjustment to the franchisee’s then current rate
structure. (Ord. 301, 6-7-2022)
PART IV. NON-ORGANIC RECYCLABLES, GREEN WASTE, AND C&D MATERIALS
6.02.400: NON-ORGANIC RECYCLABLES - OWNERSHIP, RIGHT TO DISPOSE:
   A.   Upon placement by the owner of non-organic recyclables at a designated
recycling collection location, or placement of non-organic recyclables in a
container provided by the appropriate solid waste franchisee, the non-organic
recyclables becomes the property of the recycler or solid waste franchisee, by
operation of State law.
   B.   Nothing in this Chapter shall limit the right of any person,
organization or other entity to donate, sell or otherwise dispose of any non-
organic recyclables segregated from the solid waste stream owned by that
person, organization or other entity. For purposes of this provisions, no
donation or sale shall be deemed to have occurred in any instance where a
generator directly or indirectly pays the third party any sum regardless of
form or amount (including, without limit, as a consulting fee, container
rental, broker or other fees or tangible consideration) either: (i) in lieu of
being directly charged for collecting, transporting, processing or recycling
such item; or (ii) to offset the payment to the generator for the purported
sale of such item to the third party. Nor shall the receipt of a discount of,
or reduction in, the disposal service rate on unsegregated solid waste
containing an item which would be non-organic recyclables, if separated, be
deemed to be the donation or sale of such an item to a third party. (Ord. 289,
5-19-2020; amd. Ord. 301, 6-7-2022)
6.02.410: LANDSCAPERS - DISPOSAL OF GREEN WASTE:
   A.   Landscapers shall haul source separated green waste to a solid waste
facility operation, activity, or property that processes or recovers source
separated organic waste.
   B.   Landscapers shall keep a record of the amount of green waste delivered
to each facility, operation, activity, or property that processes or recovers
green waste. This record shall be subject to inspection by the Town. The
records shall include the following information: (1) delivery receipts and
weight tickets from the entity accepting the waste; (2) the amount of material
in cubic yards or tons transported by the generator to each entity; (3) if the
material is transported to an entity that does not have scales on-site, or
employs scales incapable of weighing the landscaper’s vehicle in a manner that
allows it to determine the weight of materials received, the landscaper is not
required to record the weight of material but shall keep a record of the
entities that received the green waste.
   C.   Landscapers shall not contract with a solid waste enterprise to
collect, transport and compost or dispose of green waste unless that solid
waste enterprise has a franchise from the Town to perform said services. (Ord.
289, 5-19-2020; amd. Ord. 301, 6-7-2022)
6.02.420: LICENSED CONTRACTORS - DISPOSAL OF C&D MATERIALS:
   A.   Prior to commencing any construction or demolition project, every
applicant shall submit a properly completed "Construction Waste Management
Plan" (CWMP) to the CWMP Compliance Official or Building Inspector, in a form
as prescribed by that official, as a portion of the building or demolition
permit process.
   B.   Submission of the CWMP:
      1.   The completed CWMP shall contain, at a minimum, the following
information:
         a.   The estimated volume or weight of project waste to be generated
by material type; and
         b.   Declaration of whether the materials will be sorted on site or
mixed; and
         c.   The maximum volume or weight of such materials that can feasibly
be diverted via reuse, recycling or salvage for future use or sale by material
type; and
         d.   The vendor(s) that the applicant proposes to use to haul the
materials; and
         e.   Facility(is) the materials will be hauled to, and their expected
diversion rates (by volume or weight) by material type; and
         f.   Estimated "feasible" volume or weight of construction and
demolition waste that will be disposed of.
      2.   Because actual material weights are not available in this stage,
estimates are used. In estimating the volume or weight of materials as
identified in the CWMP, the applicant shall use the standardized conversion
rates approved by the Town of Yucca Valley for this purpose. Approval of the
CWMP as complete and accurate shall be a condition precedent to the issuance of
any building or demolition permit. If the applicant calculates the projected
estimated feasible diversion rate as described above, and finds the rate does
not meet the diversion goal of sixty five percent (65%), the applicant must
then submit information supporting the lower diversion rate. If this
documentation is not included, the CWMP shall be deemed incomplete.
   C.   Deposit Requirements: A refundable deposit shall be paid upon the
submission of a CWMP. This deposit will be collected at the time of CWMP
submission and will be one hundred percent (100%) refunded once the applicant
has demonstrated and provided proper receipts showing at least sixty-five
percent (65%) of debris generated by the project was recycled.
   D.   Compliance With The CWMP - Documentation: Prior to final inspection of
any covered project, the applicant shall submit to the CWMP Compliance Official
or Building Inspector, documentation proving that it has met the diversion
requirement for the project. The diversion requirement shall be that the
applicant has diverted at least sixty five percent (65%) of the total
construction and demolition debris generated by the project via reuse or
recycling. This documentation shall include all of the following:
      1.   Receipts from the vendor or facility that collected or received each
material showing the actual weight or volume of that material; and
      2.   A copy of the previously submitted CWMP for the project adding the
actual volume of weight of each material diverted and landfilled; and
      3.   Any additional information the applicant believes is relevant to
determining its efforts to comply in good faith with the Chapter.
   E.   Licensed contractors performing work within the scope of their
licenses/permits within the Town may collect, transport and dispose or recycle
of construction and demolition materials generated within their own specific
work sites, provided that the licensed contractor adheres to the standards for
disposal of construction and demolition material provided in the California
Green Building Standards Code (California Code of Regulations Title 24, Part
11). Construction and demolition materials must be transported to a recycling
facility permitted by CalRecycle whenever possible. Landfilling of construction
and demolition materials shall be a last resort.
   F.   Licensed contractors shall not contract with a solid waste enterprise
or construction and demolition clean-up enterprise to collect, transport and
dispose or recycle of construction and demolition materials unless that solid
waste enterprise has a franchise from the Town to perform said services. (Ord.
289, 5-19-2020; amd. Ord. 301, 6-7-2022)
PART V. ORGANIC WASTE
6.02.500: COMPLIANCE WITH AB 1826 AND SB 1383:
Single-family premises and commercial premises shall comply with the organic
waste recycling provisions of AB 1826 and SB 1383, and all regulations
associated therewith. (Ord. 301, 6-7-2022)
6.02.510: REQUIREMENTS FOR SINGLE-FAMILY GENERATORS:
   A.   Single-Family Organic Waste Generators:
      1.   Shall subscribe to the Town's three-container organic waste
collection services. The Town shall have the right to review the number, size,
and location of a generator's containers to evaluate adequacy of capacity
provided for each type of collection service for proper separation of materials
and containment of materials; and, generator shall adjust its service level for
its collection services as requested by the Town.
      2.   Shall participate in the Town's three-container system for source
separated recyclable materials, source separated green container organic
materials, and gray container waste collection services. Generator
participation in the collection programs requires that generators place only
approved materials in the appropriate colored containers. Generators shall not
place materials designated for the gray container into the green container or
blue container.
   B.   Notwithstanding the above, and in accordance with the SB 1383
Regulations, the Town is not required to replace functional containers,
including containers purchased prior to January 1, 2022, that do not comply
with the color requirements of this Chapter and the Regulations, prior to the
end of the useful life of those containers, or prior to January 1, 2036,
whichever comes first. Labels will be placed on the new containers indicating
the primary materials accepted and the primary materials prohibited in the
containers. Until SB 1383 compliant colored containers are provided (blue
container, green container, and gray container), single-family waste generators
shall comply with the container label requirements.
      1.   Nothing in this Section prohibits a generator from preventing or
reducing waste generation, managing organic waste on site, and/or using a
community composting site pursuant to 14 CCR section 18984.9(c). (Ord. 301, 6-
7-2022)
6.02.520: REQUIREMENTS FOR COMMERCIAL BUSINESSES:
   A.   Commercial businesses, which includes multi-family residential
dwellings, shall:
      1.   Subscribe to the Town's three-container organic waste collection
services. The Town shall have the right to review the number, size, and
location of a generator's containers and frequency of collection to evaluate
adequacy of capacity provided for each type of collection service for proper
separation of materials and containment of materials; and, commercial business
shall adjust its service level for its collection services as requested by the
Town.
      2.   Participate in and comply with the Town's three-container (blue
container, green container, and gray container) collection service by placing
designated materials in designated containers. Generator shall place only
approved materials in the appropriate colored containers. Generators shall not
place materials designated for the gray container into the green container or
blue container.
   B.   Notwithstanding the above, and in accordance with the SB 1383
Regulations, the Town is not required to replace functional containers,
including containers purchased prior to January 1, 2022, that do not comply
with the color requirements of this Chapter and the Regulations, prior to the
end of the useful life of those containers, or prior to January 1, 2036,
whichever comes first. Labels will be placed on the new containers indicating
the primary materials accepted and the primary materials prohibited in the
containers. Until SB 1383 compliant colored containers are provided (blue
container, green container, and gray container), commercial businesses shall
comply with the container label requirements.
      1.   Supply and allow access to adequate number, size, and location of
collection containers with sufficient labels or colors (conforming with
subsections (2)(a) and (2)(b) below), for employees, contractors, tenants and
customers, consistent with the Town's blue container, green container, and gray
container collection service.
      2.   Excluding multi-family residential dwellings, provide containers for
the collection of source separated green container organic waste, and source
separated recyclable materials in all indoor and outdoor areas where disposal
containers are provided for customers, for materials generated by that
business. Such containers do not need to be provided in restrooms. If a
commercial business does not generate any of the materials that would be
collected in one type of container, then the business does not have to provide
that particular container in all areas where disposal containers are provided
for customers. Pursuant to 14 CCR section 18984.9(b), the containers provided
by the business shall have either:
         a.   A body or lid that conforms with the container colors provided
through the collection service provided by the Town, with either lids
conforming to the color requirements or bodies conforming to the color
requirements or both lids and bodies conforming to color requirements. A
commercial business is not required to replace functional containers, including
containers purchased prior to January 1, 2022, that do not comply with the
requirements of the subsection prior to the end of the useful life of those
containers, or prior to January 1, 2036, whichever comes first.
         b.   Container labels that include language or graphic images or both
indicating the primary material accepted and the primary materials prohibited
in that container or containers with imprinted text or graphic images that
indicate the primary materials accepted and primary materials prohibited in the
container. Pursuant 14 CCR section 18984.8, the container labels are required
on new containers commencing January 1, 2022.
      3.   Multi-family residential dwellings are not required to comply with
container placement requirements or labeling requirement pursuant to 14 CCR
section 18984.9(b).
      4.   To the extent practical through education, training, inspection,
and/or other measures, excluding multi-family residential dwellings, prohibit
employees from placing materials in a container not designated for those
materials per the Town's blue container, green container, and gray container
collection service.
      5.   Excluding multi-family residential dwellings, periodically inspect
blue container, green container, and gray containers for contamination and
inform employees if containers are contaminated and of the requirements to keep
contaminants out of those containers pursuant to 14 CCR section 18984.9(b)(3).
      6.   Annually provide information to employees, contractors, tenants, and
customers about organic waste recovery requirements and about proper sorting of
source separated green container organic waste and source separated recyclable
materials.
      7.   Provide education information before or within fourteen (14) days of
occupation of the premises to new tenants that describes requirements to keep
source separated green container organic waste and source separated recyclable
materials separate from gray container waste (when applicable) and the location
of containers and the rules governing their use at each property.
      8.   Provide or arrange access for the Town or its agent to their
properties during all inspections conducted in accordance with this Chapter to
confirm compliance with the requirements of this Chapter.
      9.   If implemented, accommodate and cooperate with the Town's remote
monitoring program for inspection of the contents of containers for prohibited
container contaminants, to evaluate generator's compliance with this Chapter.
The remote monitoring program shall involve installation of remote monitoring
equipment on or in the blue containers, green containers, and/or gray
containers.
      10.   Nothing in this Section prohibits a generator from preventing or
reducing waste generation, managing organic waste on site, or using a community
composting site pursuant to 14 CCR section 18984.9(c).
      11.   Commercial businesses that are tier one or tier two commercial
edible food generators shall comply with food recovery requirements of this
Chapter. (Ord. 301, 6-7-2022)
6.02.530: WAIVERS FOR GENERATORS:
   A.   De Minimis Waivers: The Town may, at its discretion or in concert with
its solid waste franchisee, waive a commercial business' obligation (including
multi-family residential dwellings) to comply with some or all of the organic
waste requirements of this Chapter if the commercial business:
      1.   Submits an application specifying the services that they are
requesting a waiver from; and
      2.   Provides documentation that either:
         a.   The commercial business' total solid waste collection service is
two (2) cubic yards or more per week and organic waste subject to collection in
a blue container or green container comprises less than twenty (20) gallons per
week per applicable container of the business' total waste; or
         b.   The commercial business' total solid waste collection service is
less than two (2) cubic yards per week and organic waste subject to collection
in a blue container or green container comprises less than ten (10) gallons per
week per applicable container of the business' total waste; and
      3.   Notifies the Town if circumstances change such that commercial
business' organic waste exceeds the threshold required for waiver, in which
case waiver will be rescinded; and
      4.   Provides written verification of eligibility for de minimis waiver
every five (5) years, if the Town has approved de minimis waiver.
   B.   Physical Space Waivers: The Town may, at its discretion or in concert
with its solid waste franchisee, waive a commercial business' or property
owner's obligations (including multi-family residential dwellings) to comply
with some or all of the recyclable materials and/or organic waste collection
service requirements if the Town has evidence from its own staff, a hauler,
licensed architect, or licensed engineer demonstrating that the premises lack
adequate space for the collection containers required for compliance with the
organic waste collection requirements of this Chapter.
      1.   A commercial business or property owner may request a physical space
waiver through the following process:
         a.   Submit an application form specifying the type(s) of collection
services for which they are requesting a compliance waiver.
         b.   Provide documentation that the premises lack adequate space for
blue containers and/or green containers, including documentation from its
hauler, licensed architect, or licensed engineer.
         c.   Provide written verification to the Town that it is still
eligible for physical space waiver every five (5) years, if the Town has
approved application for a physical space waiver.
   C.   Collection Frequency Waiver: The Town, at its discretion or in concert
with its solid waste franchisee, and in accordance with 14 CCR section 18984.11
(a)(3), may allow the owner or tenant of any residence, premises, business
establishment or industry that subscribes to the Town's three-container organic
waste collection service to arrange for the collection of their blue container,
gray container, or both once every fourteen (14) days, rather than once per
week. (Ord. 301, 6-7-2022)
6.02.540: REQUIREMENTS FOR COMMERCIAL EDIBLE FOOD GENERATORS:
   A.   Tier One Commercial Edible Food Generators must comply with the below
requirements commencing January 1, 2022, and tier two commercial edible food
generators must comply commencing January 1, 2024, pursuant to 14 CCR section
18991.3.
   B.   Large venue or large event operators not providing food services, but
allowing for food to be provided by others, shall require food facilities
operating at the large venue or large event to comply with the requirements of
this Section, commencing January 1, 2024.
   C.   Commercial edible food generators shall comply with the following
requirements:
      1.   Arrange to recover the maximum amount of edible food that would
otherwise be disposed.
      2.   Contract with, or enter into a written agreement with food recovery
organizations or food recovery services for: (i) the collection of edible food
for food recovery; or, (ii) acceptance of the edible food that the commercial
edible food generator self-hauls to the food recovery organization for food
recovery.
      3.   Shall not intentionally spoil edible food that is capable of being
recovered by a food recovery organization or a food recovery service.
      4.   Allow the Town's designated enforcement entity or designated third
party enforcement entity to access the premises and review records pursuant to
14 CCR section 18991.4.
      5.   Keep records that include the following information, or as otherwise
specified in 14 CCR section 18991.4:
         a.   A list of each food recovery service or organization that
collects or receives its edible food pursuant to a contract or written
agreement established under 14 CCR section 18991.3(b).
         b.   A copy of all contracts or written agreements established under
14 CCR section 18991.3(b).
         c.   A record of the following information for each of those food
recovery services or food recovery organizations:
            (1)   The name, address and contact information of the food
recovery service or food recovery organization.
            (2)   The types of food that will be collected by or self-hauled to
the food recovery service or food recovery organization.
            (3)   The established frequency that food will be collected or
self-hauled.
            (4)   The quantity of food, measured in pounds recovered per month,
collected or self-hauled to a food recovery service or food recovery
organization for food recovery.
      6.   Commencing no later than January 1, 2022, for tier one commercial
edible food generators and January 1, 2024, for tier two commercial edible food
generators, commercial edible food generators shall provide a quarterly food
recovery report to the Town which includes the information required in 14 CCR
section 18991.4 "Record Keeping Requirements for Commercial Edible Food
Generators."
   D.   Nothing in this Section shall be construed to limit or conflict with
the protections provided by the California Good Samaritan Food Donation Act of
2017, the Federal Good Samaritan Act, or share table and school food donation
guidance pursuant to Senate Bill 557 of 2017 (approved by the Governor of the
State of California on September 25, 2017, which added Article 13 [commencing
with section 49580] to Chapter 9 of Part 27 of Division 4 of Title 2 of the
Education Code, and to amend section 114079 of the Health and Safety Code,
relating to food safety, as amended, supplemented, superseded and replaced from
time to time). (Ord. 301, 6-7-2022)
6.02.550: REQUIREMENTS FOR FOOD RECOVERY ORGANIZATIONS AND SERVICES:
   A.   Food recovery services collecting or receiving edible food directly
from commercial edible food generators, via a contract or written agreement
established under 14 CCR section 18991.3(b), shall maintain the following
records, or as otherwise specified by 14 CCR section 18991.5(a)(1):
      1.   The name, address, and contact information for each commercial
edible food generator from which the service collects edible food.
      2.   The quantity in pounds of edible food collected from each commercial
edible food generator per month.
      3.   The quantity in pounds of edible food transported to each food
recovery organization per month.
      4.   The name, address, and contact information for each food recovery
organization that the food recovery service transports edible food to for food
recovery.
   B.   Food recovery organizations collecting or receiving edible food
directly from commercial edible food generators, via a contract or written
agreement established under 14 CCR section 18991.3(b), shall maintain the
following records, or as otherwise specified by 14 CCR section 18991.5(a)(2):
      1.   The name, address, and contact information for each commercial
edible food generator from which the organization receives edible food.
      2.   The quantity in pounds of edible food received from each commercial
edible food generator per month.
      3.   The name, address, and contact information for each food recovery
service that the organization receives edible food from for food recovery.
   C.   Commencing January 1, 2022, food recovery organizations and food
recovery services that have their primary address physically located in the
Town and contract with or have written agreements with one (1) or more
commercial edible food generators pursuant to 14 CCR section 18991.3(b) shall
report to the Town the total pounds of edible food recovered in the previous
calendar year from the tier one and tier two commercial edible food generators
they have established a contract or written agreement with pursuant to 14 CCR
section 18991.3(b), as applicable.
   D.   Food Recovery Capacity Planning: Food recovery services and food
recovery organizations operating in the Town shall provide information and
consultation to the Town, upon request, regarding existing, or proposed new or
expanded, food recovery capacity that could be accessed by the Town and its
commercial edible food generators. A food recovery service or food recovery
organization contacted by the Town shall respond to such request for
information within sixty (60) days, unless a shorter timeframe is otherwise
specified by the Town.
   E.   Commencing no later than January 1, 2022, food recovery services and
organization shall provide a quarterly report to the Town which includes the
information required in 14 CCR section 18991.5 "Food Recovery Services and
Organizations." (Ord. 301, 6-7-2022)
6.02.560: REQUIREMENTS FOR HAULERS, FACILITY OPERATORS AND COMMUNITY COMPOSTING
OPERATIONS:
   A.   Requirements For Haulers:
      1.   Solid waste franchisee providing residential, commercial or organic
waste collection services to generators within the Town's boundaries shall meet
the following requirements and standards as a condition of approval of a
contract, agreement, or other authorization with the Town to collect organic
waste:
         a.   Through written notice to the Town annually on or before July 1,
identify the facilities to which they will transport organic waste including
the facilities for source separated recyclable materials and source separated
green container organic waste, as applicable.
         b.   Transport source separated recyclable materials and source
separated green container organic waste to a facility, operation, activity, or
property that recovers organic waste, as defined in 14 CCR, Division 7, Chapter
12, Article 2.
         c.   Obtain approval from the Town to haul organic waste, unless it is
transporting source separated organic waste to a community composting site or
lawfully transporting C&D in a manner that complies with 14 CCR section
18989.1.
         d.   Solid waste franchisee shall comply with education, equipment,
signage, container labeling, container color, contamination monitoring,
reporting, and other requirements contained within its franchise agreement, as
may be amended from time to time.
         e.   Notwithstanding any of the foregoing, nothing in this Chapter
shall restrict or otherwise prohibit solid waste franchisee from meeting its
compliance requirements by any alternative methods or procedures, provided it
complies with SB 1383, the SB 1383 Regulations, and/or any other applicable
law, as may be amended from time to time.
   B.   Requirements For Facility Operators And Community Composting
Operations:
      1.   Owners of facilities, operations, and activities that recover
organic waste, including, but not limited to, compost facilities, in-vessel
digestion facilities, and publicly-owned treatment works shall, upon the Town's
request, provide information regarding available and potential new or expanded
capacity at their facilities, operations, and activities, including information
about throughput and permitted capacity necessary for planning purposes.
Entities contacted by the Town shall respond within sixty (60) days.
      2.   Community composting operators, upon Town request, shall provide
information to the Town to support organic waste capacity planning, including,
but not limited to, an estimate of the amount of organic waste anticipated to
be handled at the community composting operation. Entities contacted by the
Town shall respond within sixty (60) days. (Ord. 301, 6-7-2022)
6.02.570: COMPLIANCE WITH CALGREEN RECYCLING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   As applicable, all persons and/or entities subject to California Green
Building Standards Code, 24 CCR, Part 11, known as CALGreen, shall comply with
the following provisions of CALGreen, as amended July 1, 2019 and effective
January 1, 2020:
      1.   Section 4.410.2 Recycling by Occupants Residential and Section
5.410.1 Recycling by Occupants Non-residential.
      2.   For organic waste commingled with construction and demolition
debris, Section 4.408.1 Construction Waste Management Residential and Section
5.408.1 Construction Waste Management non-residential.
   B.   If, after the adoption of this Chapter, Sections 4.408.1, 4.410.2,
5.408.1, and 5.410.1 of CALGreen are amended in a manner that requires the Town
to incorporate the requirements in an updated local ordinance, and the amended
requirements include provisions more stringent than those required in this
Section, the revised requirements of Sections 4.408.1, 4.410.2, 5.408.1, and
5.410.1 of CALGreen shall be enforced. (Ord. 301, 6-7-2022)
6.02.580: MODEL WATER EFFICIENT LANDSCAPING ORDINANCE (MWELO) REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The following is adopted in accordance with Title 14, section 18989.2
of the California Code of Regulations adopted pursuant to SB 1383.
   B.   Notwithstanding any other provision of Town of Yucca Valley Municipal
Code, including, but not limited to, Chapter 9.32, as applicable, all persons
and/or entities subject to the State Model Water Efficient Landscape Ordinance
(23 CCR, Division 2, Chapter 2.7) shall comply with Sections 492.6(a)(3)(B),
(C), (D), and (G), of the State Model Water Efficient Landscape Ordinance, as
amended September 15, 2015, and as it may be amended in the future. (Ord. 301,
6-7-2022)
PART VI. PROHIBITED ACTS
6.02.600: USE OF CONTAINERS:
   A.   Non-organic recyclables and organic waste contamination is prohibited.
Gray container waste, non-organic recyclables, and organic waste must be source
separated by the person in charge of a premises.
   B.   Any container not provided by the appropriate solid waste franchisee or
approved by the Town pursuant to an approved self-haul permit is prima facie
evidence that the owner of the container is engaging in solid waste disposal in
violation of this Chapter. Any such unauthorized container may be abated as a
public nuisance and impounded as provided by this Chapter.
   C.   Notwithstanding Subsections (A) and (B) of this Section, composting
organic waste at a single-family premise in a container other than one provided
by a solid waste franchisee or approved by the Town pursuant to an approved
self-haul permit shall not be a violation of this Section.
   D.   No person in charge of a premises may place an overfilled container out
for collection by a solid waste franchisee. (Ord. 289, 5-19-2020; amd. Ord.
301, 6-7-2022)
6.02.610: REMOVAL OF SOLID WASTE:
No person other than the person in charge of any premises or a Town solid waste
franchisee shall:
   A.   Remove any container from the location where the container was placed
for storage or collection by the person in charge of the premises; or
   B.   Remove any solid waste, recyclable materials or organic waste from any
container; or
   C.   Move a container from the location in which it was placed for storage
or collection without the prior written approval of the person in charge of the
premises. (Ord. 289, 5-19-2020; amd. Ord. 301, 6-7-2022)
6.02.620: BULKY WASTE:
   A.   No person shall place bulky waste adjacent to or in a street or public
right-of-way for collection or removal purposes without first making
arrangements with the appropriate solid waste franchisee for the collection or
removal of such bulky waste.
   B.   After making arrangements for bulky waste removal with the appropriate
solid waste franchisee, bulky waste shall be placed in the public right-of-way
no more than twenty-four (24) hours prior to collection. (Ord. 289, 5-19-2020;
amd. Ord. 301, 6-7-2022)
6.02.630: HAZARDOUS WASTE:
No person shall place or deposit hazardous waste, household hazardous waste, or
universal waste in any container provided by a solid waste franchisee, or
deposit, release, spill, leak, pump, pour, emit, empty, discharge, inject, dump
or dispose into the environment any hazardous waste, household hazardous waste
or universal waste. (Ord. 289, 5-19-2020; amd. Ord. 301, 6-7-2022)
6.02.640: SOLID WASTE BURNING:
No person shall burn any solid waste within the Town, except in an approved
incinerator or transformation facility or other device for which a permit has
been issued, and which complies with all applicable permit and other
regulations of air pollution control authorities, and provided any such act of
burning in all respects complies with all other laws, rules and regulations.
(Ord. 289, 5-19-2020; amd. Ord. 301, 6-7-2022)
6.02.650: FRANCHISE REQUIRED:
No person, except a solid waste franchisee, a landscaper hauling green waste,
or a licensed contractor performing work within the scope of that license,
shall collect or remove any solid waste from any premises within the Town.
(Ord. 289, 5-19-2020; amd. Ord. 301, 6-7-2022)
6.02.660: PUBLIC NUISANCE:
It is unlawful and a public nuisance if one of the following conditions exists
at a premises:
   A.   The person in charge of the premises has not made arrangements with the
appropriate solid waste franchisee for solid waste handling services, or does
not have a valid self-haul permit;
   B.   The person in charge of the premises has made arrangements with the
appropriate solid waste franchisee for solid waste handling services, but the
solid waste franchisee has terminated services to the premises due to the
account holder's failure to pay for such services; and
   C.   The person in charge of the premises has obtained a self-haul permit,
but the permittee has violated one or more of the operational standards
contained in Section 6.02.340. (Ord. 289, 5-19-2020; amd. Ord. 301, 6-7-2022)
6.02.670: UNAUTHORIZED DISPOSAL:
No person shall place anything in another person's containers without the
permission of such other person. (Ord. 289, 5-19-2020; amd. Ord. 301, 6-7-2022)
6.02.680: SPILLS:
It is unlawful for any person transporting solid waste not to clean up, or
arrange for the cleanup, of any solid waste during removal or transport within
the Town by such person. If any person transporting solid waste spills any such
materials and does not clean up or arrange for the cleanup of the Spill, the
Town may clean up the Spill and charge the person responsible for the Spill one
hundred percent (100%) of the costs the Town incurred in cleaning up the Spill.
(Ord. 289, 5-19-2020; amd. Ord. 301, 6-7-2022)
6.02.690: UNLAWFUL DUMPING:
It is unlawful for any person to negligently or intentionally Spill upon any
property within the Town any solid waste, or to cause, suffer, or permit solid
waste, to be located upon any property in the Town, except as authorized by
law. (Ord. 289, 5-19-2020; amd. Ord. 301, 6-7-2022)
6.02.695: SOLID WASTE FACILITIES:
No person shall construct or operate a solid waste management facility,
including, but not limited to, a materials recovery facility, solid waste
transfer or processing station, composting facility, a buy-back or drop-off
center, disposal facility or a recycling center without first satisfying all
Town requirements for land use, environmental and other approvals. (Ord. 289,
5-19-2020; amd. Ord. 301, 6-7-2022)
PART VII. ENFORCEMENT
6.02.700: INSPECTIONS AND INVESTIGATIONS BY THE TOWN:
   A.   Town employees, designee, and/or its solid waste franchisee are
authorized to conduct inspections and investigations, at random or otherwise,
of any collection container, collection vehicle loads, or transfer, processing,
or disposal facility for materials collected from generators, or source
separated materials to confirm compliance with this Chapter, subject to
applicable laws. This Section does not allow the Town to enter the interior of
a private residential property for inspection. For the purposes of inspecting
commercial business containers for compliance with this Chapter, the Town may
conduct container inspections for prohibited container contaminants using
remote monitoring, and commercial businesses shall accommodate and cooperate
with the remote monitoring, where applicable.
   B.   Persons in charge shall provide or arrange for access during all
inspections (with the exception of residential property interiors) and shall
cooperate with Town employees, designee, and/or its solid waste franchisee
during such inspections and investigations. Such inspections and investigations
may include confirmation of proper placement of materials in containers, edible
food recovery activities, records, or any other requirement of this Chapter
described herein. Failure to provide or arrange for: (i) access to an entity's
premises; (ii) installation and operation of remote monitoring equipment, where
required; or (ii) access to records for any inspection or investigation is a
violation of this Chapter and may result in penalties described.
   C.   Any records obtained by a Town during its inspections, remote
monitoring, and other reviews shall be subject to the requirements and
applicable disclosure exemptions of the Public Records Act as set forth in
Government Code section 6250 et seq.
   D.   Town employees, designee, and/or its solid waste franchisee are
authorized to conduct any inspections, remote monitoring or other
investigations as reasonably necessary to further the goals of this Chapter,
subject to applicable laws.
   E.   The Town shall receive written complaints from persons regarding an
entity that may be potentially non-compliant with this Chapter, including
receipt of anonymous complaints. (Ord. 301, 6-7-2022)
6.02.710: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Pursuant to California Penal Code section 836.5, any Town Code
enforcement officer is authorized to enforce the provisions of this Chapter and
as well as those of California Penal Code sections 374, 374a, 374.2, 374.3,
374.4, 374d, 374.7, and 375; California Government Code sections 68055 et seq.;
and California Vehicle Code sections 23111 and 23112.
   B.   Any violation of this Chapter may be enforced in any manner authorized
by law, including, but not limited to, an administrative citation, criminal
citation, nuisance abatement action, or civil action. (Ord. 289, 5-19-2020;
amd. Ord. 301, 6-7-2022)
6.02.720: VIOLATION:
Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter, violations of this Chapter are
punishable as set out in Title 13 of the Town of Yucca Valley Municipal Code.
(Ord. 289, 5-19-2020; amd. Ord. 301, 6-7-2022)
6.02.730: MISDEMEANOR:
Violation of this Chapter shall be a misdemeanor. (Ord. 289, 5-19-2020; amd.
Ord. 301, 6-7-2022)
6.02.740: ATTORNEY'S FEES:
In any action or proceeding brought to enforce a violation of this Chapter,
including, but not limited to, a nuisance abatement action and an action to
foreclose on a special assessment, the prevailing party shall recover its
reasonable attorney's fees and costs. (Ord. 289, 5-19-2020; amd. Ord. 301, 6-7-
2022)
6.02.750: IMPOUNDING CONTAINERS:
   A.   Containers Subject To Impounding: Any container within the Town that is
not provided by the appropriate solid waste franchisee or approved by the Town
pursuant to an approved self-haul permit may be impounded in accordance with
this Section. Containers used for composting at single-family premises, as
allowed by this Chapter, shall not be subject to impounding pursuant to this
Section.
   B.   Notice To Remove: The Town Manager may cause a notice to remove to be
posted on the illegal container. The notice to remove shall state that the
container must be removed from the premises within three (3) calendar days from
the date the notice is posted on the container or it will be removed and stored
by the Town and the contents disposed of at the expense of the owner of the
container. The posting of the notice to remove constitutes constructive notice
to the owner of the container and the person in charge of the premises that the
container must be removed from the premises.
   C.   Removal Of Containers: If the container is not removed within three (3)
calendar days of the notice to remove, the Town Manager may direct the removal
and storage of the container and the disposal of its contents. The Town may
employ the services of its solid waste franchisee(s) or any other contractor to
remove said containers. Any person whose duty it is to remove and store
containers may enter upon private property with the consent of the owner or
other person in charge of the premises, or by authority of a warrant, or
without consent or a warrant if exigent circumstances exist.
   D.   Storage Of Containers: After a container is removed and placed in
storage, the Town Manager shall mail to the owner of the container a notice to
claim the stored container, if the identity of the owner of the container is
known. The Town Manager shall make reasonable efforts to identify the owner of
a stored container. If the container is not claimed within thirty (30) calendar
days after notice to the owner is mailed, or thirty (30) days after the
container is removed if the owner is not known, the container shall be deemed
abandoned property and may be disposed of accordingly.
   E.   Release Of Container: No container shall be released to its owner
unless the owner has paid the Town for the actual costs of the removal, storage
and disposal of contents, plus any administrative and ancillary fees, fines or
penalties established by resolution of Town Council. All amounts due to the
Town shall constitute a civil debt owed to the Town by the owner of the
container. (Ord. 289, 5-19-2020; amd. Ord. 301, 6-7-2022)
CHAPTER 6.04
ABATEMENT OF PUBLIC NUISANCES
SECTION:
6.04.010: Purpose
6.04.020: Definitions
6.04.030: Declaration Of Nuisance
6.04.040: Notification Of Nuisance
6.04.050: Administrative Hearing To Confirm Nuisance
6.04.060: Notice Of Hearing (Rep. by Ord. 214, 5-18-2010)
6.04.070: Administrative Hearing
6.04.080: Hearing Procedures
6.04.090: Abatement By Town
6.04.100: Report; Hearing On Assessment
6.04.110: Assessment Of Costs And Lien Against Property
6.04.120: Alternatives
6.04.130: Emergency Abatement
6.04.140: Violations
6.04.010: PURPOSE:
It is hereby declared to be in the public interest to promote the health,
safety and welfare of the residents of the town by providing a summary
procedure for the abatement of nuisances, which abatement procedures shall be
in addition to all other proceedings by this code or otherwise by law. (Ord.
64, 3-7-1996)
6.04.020: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings given herein:
GARBAGE OR RUBBISH: Includes, but is not limited to, trash, wastepaper, old or
scrap trash or wood, general trash, cardboard or other flammable material of
any kind or garbage including decaying waste or discarded food, meat, fish,
animal or vegetable matter, including any hazardous materials or waste, oil,
gasoline or diesel products, any of which by their volume, extent or nature
endangers the public safety by creating a health or fire hazard.
GRAFFITI: Any unauthorized inscribing, word, figure or design which is marked,
etched, scratched, drawn, painted, pasted or otherwise affixed to or on any
surface, regardless of the nature of the material of that structural component,
to the extent the same was not authorized in advance by the owner thereof, or,
despite advance authorization, is otherwise deemed by the town council to be a
public nuisance 1 .
INFECTIOUS AND RELATED WASTES AND ODORS: Including from: hospitals and medical
facilities, sewers, cesspools, septic tanks, leach lines and fields (whether of
individual or multiple ownership), toilets, holding tanks, seepage pits,
butcher offal, pet droppings, excrement, urine, laundry water, manure
accumulations, dead animals, putrid matter and similar materials under
circumstances endangering the public health and safety.
JUNK: Includes any secondhand or used machinery and scrap metal, including, but
not limited to, appliances, rubber tools, implements, or parts thereof,
batteries, rope, rags or plastic, any of which are gathered together or stored
in a manner to constitute a hazard to the public health or safety.
POLLUTED WATER: Water contained in a swimming pool, pond or other body of
water, which includes, but is not limited to, bacterial growth including algae,
remains of rubbish, refuse, debris, paper or any other foreign matter or
material which because of its nature or location constitutes an unhealthy or
unsafe condition.
UNSIGHTLY PROPERTY: Includes any property or building or structure in a
defective or unsightly condition, or in such a state of deterioration or
disrepair that it causes or will cause an ascertainable diminution of the
property values of surrounding properties or is otherwise materially
detrimental to adjacent and/or nearby properties and improvements.
WEEDS: Useless and troublesome plants generally accepted as having no value and
frequently of uncontrolled growth. Weeds do not include any plant protected
under state or federal law and include, but are not limited to, the following:
   A.   Brush which attains a growth so as to become when dry a fire menace to
adjacent improved property;
   B.   Growth which is noxious or dangerous;
   C.   Poison oak, poison ivy, castor beans or any other poisonous plant when
the growth conditions are such as to constitute a significant hazard to the
public health;
   D.   Dry grass, rubble, brush, litter or any flammable material which by its
volume, extent or nature endangers the public safety by creating a fire hazard.
(Ord. 58, 7-20-1995; amd. Ord. 64, 3-7-1996)
 
Notes
1 1. See
   chapter 11.20 of this code.
6.04.030: DECLARATION OF NUISANCE:
It is unlawful and is hereby declared a nuisance for any person owning,
leasing, renting, occupying, charged with the management of or having charge or
possession of any property in the town to maintain or fail to maintain the
property in such a manner that any of the following conditions are present:
   A.   To maintain private property containing garbage, graffiti, infectious
and related wastes and odors, junk, polluted water, rubbish or unsightly
property.
   B.   To knowingly allow any improper or illegal deposit of rubbish, garbage,
junk or weeds, and infectious and related wastes and odors, including the
deposit in or onto the surface of the ground or in, on or around any structure
or into a lake, river, stream or flood control channel.
   C.   To maintain property in such a manner as to cause a hazard to the
public by obscuring visibility of or at any public right of way, road
intersection or pedestrian walkway.
   D.   To conduct building or demolition related activities between the hours
of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. in a residential
area, and between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and five o'clock (5:00)
A.M. in a commercial or industrial area. Limits on construction hours may be
waived during an emergency.
   E.   It shall be the duty of any person owning, leasing, renting, occupying,
charged with the management of or having charge or possession of any property
in the town to remove, abate and prevent the occurrence or reoccurrence of a
public nuisance upon such property. Any reoccurrence of a condition may be
deemed to be a continuation of the original condition. (Ord. 64, 3-7-1996)
6.04.040: NOTIFICATION OF NUISANCE:
   A.   Whenever the town manager, code enforcement officer or his designee
determines that any condition on the property within the town constitutes a
nuisance as declared hereinabove, such person shall issue a notice to abate by
either of the following methods:
      1.   Mailing to the owner at the address shown on the last available
assessment roll and to any occupant of the property; or
      2.   By personal service on the owner, occupants, or person in charge of
the property.
   B.   The notice to abate shall be substantially in the form kept on file in
the office of the town clerk. (Ord. 64, 3-7-1996; amd. 2000 Code)
6.04.050: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING TO CONFIRM NUISANCE:
Original notice as provided in section
6.04.040 of this chapter shall also state application may be made within ten
(10) days of notification for a hearing before the hearing officer to determine
whether the structure or property is a public nuisance and whether the action
demanded in said notice is necessary to comply with the requirements of this
chapter. Application for a hearing must be made in writing within the said time
to the town manager and, upon receipt of a sufficient signed application, the
town manager shall set a hearing and notify the applicant thereof by mail to
the address set forth in the application. This notice shall name the date for
hearing, and said hearing shall be held not less than ten (10) days from giving
notice thereof if the owner resides within the town of Yucca Valley, or thirty
(30) days if the owner resides outside of the town of Yucca Valley except by
agreement of the applicant and the town manager, with consent of the hearing
officer if he has been appointed. (Ord. 214, 5-18-2010)
6.04.060: NOTICE OF HEARING:
(Rep. by Ord. 214, 5-18-2010)
6.04.070: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING:
   A.   At the time stated in the notice, the hearing officer shall hear and
consider all relevant evidence, objections or protests, and shall receive
testimony under oath relative to such alleged public nuisance and to proposed
rehabilitation, repair, removal or demolition of such property. Said hearing
may be continued from time to time.
   B.   If the hearing officer finds that such public nuisance does exist and
that there is a sufficient cause to rehabilitate, demolish, remove or repair
the same, the hearing officer shall prepare findings and an order, which shall
specify the nature of the nuisance, the method(s) of abatement and the time
within which the work shall be commenced and completed. A copy of the findings
and order shall be served on all owners of the subject property. In addition, a
copy of the findings and order shall be forthwith conspicuously posted on or
near the property. The decision of the hearing officer shall be final and
conclusive. (Ord. 64, 3-7-1996)
6.04.080: HEARING PROCEDURES:
   A.   All hearings shall be tape recorded.
   B.   Hearings need not be conducted according to the technical rules of
evidence.
   C.   Hearsay evidence may be used for the purpose of supplementing or
explaining any direct evidence, but shall not be sufficient in itself to
support a finding unless it would be admissible over objection in civil actions
in courts of competent jurisdiction in this state. Any relevant evidence shall
be admitted if it is the type of evidence on which reasonable persons are
accustomed to rely in the conduct of serious affairs, regardless of the
existence of any common law or statutory rule which might make improper the
admission of such evidence over objection in civil actions in courts of
competent jurisdiction in this state.
   D.   Oral evidence shall be taken only on oath or affirmation.
   E.   Irrelevant and unduly repetitious evidence shall be excluded. (Ord. 64,
3-7-1996)
6.04.090: ABATEMENT BY TOWN:
If the nuisance is not completely abated by the owner, as directed, within the
time set forth above, then the town manager shall cause the same to be abated
by town personnel or private contract, and entry upon the premises is expressly
authorized for such purposes. Upon completion of the abatement by direction of
the town manager, the town manager shall cause a statement of the costs thereof
to be prepared for submission to the town council. The town manager shall set a
time and place for the town council to receive and consider the statement of
costs, and shall serve on the owner or owners of the property a copy of the
statement of costs and a notice of the time and place at which the town council
will receive and consider the statement of costs. The statement of costs and
the notice of hearing shall be served on the owner(s) of the property in the
same manner as is provided in section
 6.04.040 of this chapter and shall be accompanied by a copy of this chapter.
(Ord. 64, 3-7-1996)
6.04.100: REPORT; HEARING ON ASSESSMENT:
At the time and place set for receiving and considering the statement of costs,
the town council shall hear and pass upon the statement together with any
objections or protests raised by any of the persons liable to be assessed for
the cost of abating the nuisance. Thereupon, the town council may make any such
revision, correction or modification to the statement of costs as it may deem
appropriate, after which the statement as submitted, or as revised, corrected
or modified, shall be confirmed by resolution. Such hearing may be continued
from time to time. The decision of the town council shall be final. The town
clerk shall give notice of the town council's decision regarding the statement
of costs to the owner(s) of said property in the manner set forth in section
6.04.040 of this chapter. (Ord. 64, 3-7-1996)
6.04.110: ASSESSMENT OF COSTS AND LIEN AGAINST PROPERTY:
The costs of abatement of a nuisance, as confirmed by resolution of the town
council, shall constitute a special assessment against the property to which it
relates, and after its recording, as thus made and confirmed, the same shall
constitute a lien on said property in the amount of such assessment. After the
confirmation of the statement, a copy thereof shall be recorded in the official
records of San Bernardino County and shall be transmitted to the assessor and
tax collector of the county of San Bernardino by the town clerk. Whereupon it
shall be the duty of said assessor and tax collector to add the amount of such
assessment, or assessments, to the next regular bills of taxes levied against
the said respective lot or parcel of land, and thereafter said amount shall be
collected at the same time and in the same manner as ordinary real property
taxes are collected, and shall be subject to the same penalties and the same
procedure for foreclosure and sale in the case of delinquency as provided for
ordinary real property taxes. (Ord. 64, 3-7-1996)
6.04.120: ALTERNATIVES:
Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prevent the town council from
ordering the town attorney to commence a civil action or other judicial or
administrative proceeding to abate the alleged nuisance or to obtain any other
appropriate remedy in addition to, as an alternative to, or in conjunction with
the procedures authorized by this chapter. Nor shall the implementation of this
chapter be deemed to prevent appropriate authorities from commencing a criminal
action based upon the conditions constituting the alleged nuisance. (Ord. 64,
3-7-1996)
6.04.130: EMERGENCY ABATEMENT:
Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, whenever the town manager
determines that any real property or any building, structure or condition
thereof is dangerous or constitutes an immediate threat to public health or
safety, he shall, without being required to observe the provisions of this
chapter with reference to abatement procedures, immediately and forthwith abate
such public nuisance. Where such condition and the abatement is immediately
required, the town manager shall prepare a statement of costs in respect
thereto, and the provisions of sections
 6.04.070 through
 6.04.090 of this chapter shall apply. (Ord. 64, 3-7-1996)
6.04.140: VIOLATIONS:
Every person who causes or maintains any public nuisance as defined in this
chapter, or who fails to comply with an order of abatement made pursuant to
this chapter, is guilty of a violation of this chapter and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished in accordance with the provisions of
chapter 1.02 of this code. (Ord. 64, 3-7-1996)
CHAPTER 6.06
FOOD AND BEVERAGE ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
6.06.010: Lavatory Requirements
6.06.020: Inspection Grading Of Food Establishments
6.06.010: LAVATORY REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lavatories Required: Every restaurant, cafe, bar, tearoom, facility or
other place where food, beer or alcoholic liquor is sold for consumption on the
premises shall have maintained by the operator thereof, accessible within the
enclosure walls of the building, room or place, at least one separate toilet
and adjacent hand washing facility for men and one separate toilet and adjacent
hand washing facility for women, for the use of the patrons and employees of
such establishment. All hand washing facilities shall be supplied with hot and
cold running water under pressure. All establishments serving alcoholic
beverages for consumption on the premises shall provide a minimum of one urinal
in each men's toilet room. All plumbing and plumbing fixtures shall be kept in
good repair.
   B.   Exceptions:
      1.   Public toilets may be accessible through an outside entrance if the
building is freestanding with no adjacent barriers to entrance of restrooms.
      2.   Provided no alcoholic beverages are sold for consumption on the
premises, only one public toilet for customers will be required if:
         a.   The customer area inside the establishment is less than three
hundred (300) square feet, as determined by DEHS; or
         b.   The seating area outside the establishment is less than three
hundred (300) square feet, as determined by DEHS.
      3.   If a building is remodeled so either the inside customer area or the
outside seating area becomes greater than three hundred (300) square feet, then
two (2) customer restrooms will be required as specified in subsection A of
this section. (Ord. 82, 8-7-1997)
6.06.020: INSPECTION GRADING OF FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS:
   A.   Adoption Of County Inspection Grading Of Food Establishments Code: The
town adopts by reference and makes part of this chapter by reference the
following portions of the San Bernardino County code:
      1.   Chapter 14 of division 3 of title 3.
      2.   Subsection 16.0213 B(b)(17) of chapter 2 of division 6 of title 1.
      3.   The aforementioned county codes are adopted as the inspection
grading of food establishments code of the town of Yucca Valley.
   B.   Violation; Penalty: In accordance with section 33.1406(c) of the county
code "the letter grade card shall not be defaced, marred, camouflaged, hidden
or removed. It shall be unlawful to operate a food establishment unless the
letter grade is posted. Removal of the letter grade card is a violation of this
chapter and may result in the suspension or revocation of the public health
permit and shall be punishable as specified in section 33.0112 of the San
Bernardino County code". In addition, violations of this section may be
punishable in accordance with title 1,
chapter 1.02 of this code. (Ord. 160, 12-2-2004)
CHAPTER 6.08
MAINTENANCE OF ABANDONED PROPERTIES
SECTION:
6.08.010: Purpose
6.08.020: Definitions
6.08.030: Duty To Record Assignment Of Rents
6.08.040: Maintenance Requirements
6.08.050: Security Requirements
6.08.060: Additional Authority
6.08.070: Enforcement
6.08.080: Appeals
6.08.010: PURPOSE:
It is the intent of the town council, through the adoption of this chapter, to
establish a mechanism to protect residential and commercial neighborhoods from
becoming blighted through the lack of maintenance and security of abandoned
properties; and to set forth guidelines for the maintenance of abandoned
properties. This chapter is only applicable to abandoned property (as
hereinafter defined), whether such abandoned property is improved for
residential or commercial use. (Ord. 219, 1-18-2011)
6.08.020: DEFINITIONS:
Certain words and phrases in this chapter are defined, when used herein, as
follows:
ABANDONED: Any building, structure or real property that is vacant or occupied
by a person without a legal right of occupancy, and subject to a current notice
of default and/or notice of trustee's sale, pending tax assessors lien sale
and/or any real property conveyed via a foreclosure sale resulting in the
acquisition of title by an interested beneficiary of a deed of trust, and/or
any real property conveyed via a deed in lieu of foreclosure/sale. Evidence of
"abandonment" for purposes of this chapter means any condition upon real
property that independently, or in the context of the totality of circumstances
relevant to that real property, would lead a reasonable enforcement official to
believe that a property is vacant or occupied by a person without a legal right
of occupancy. Such real property conditions include, but are not limited to:
overgrown or dead vegetation; accumulation of newspapers, circulars, fliers or
mail; past due utility notices or disconnected utilities; accumulation of
trash, junk or debris; the absence of window coverings such as curtains, blinds
or shutters; the absence of furnishings or personal items consistent with
residential habitation; and/or statements by neighbors, passersby, delivery
agents, government employees that the property is vacant.
ABATEMENT ORDER: A hearing officer's "order to abate" issued pursuant to
chapter 6.04 of this title or a nuisance abatement appeals board's written
final order decision issued pursuant to section
1.04.060 of this code, if any.
ACCESSIBLE PROPERTY: Real property that is accessible to the public, either, in
general or through an open and unsecured door, window, gate, fence, wall, etc.
ACCESSIBLE STRUCTURE: A building or structure that is not secured or is open in
such a way as to allow public or unauthorized access to the interior.
ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTY PAYMENT DUE DATE: The date that is the eleventh day
after the issuance of a hearing officer's issuance of a written "order to
abate" pursuant to
chapter 6.04 of this title, or the nuisance abatement appeals board's issuance
of a final order decision pursuant to section
 1.04.060 of this code, if any.
AGREEMENT: Any written instrument that transfers or conveys title to
residential real property from one owner to another after a sale, trade,
transfer or exchange.
ASSIGNMENT OF RENTS OR DEED OF TRUST: An instrument that transfers the
beneficial interest under a deed of trust from one lender or entity to another.
BENEFICIARY: A lender participating in a real property transaction that holds a
secured interest in the real property in question identified in a deed of
trust.
BUILDING: Any improved real property, or portion thereof, designed or permitted
to be used for any purpose, including buildings and structures located on such
improved real property. This includes any real property being offered under any
circumstances for sale, trade, transfer, or exchange as "any real property",
whether or not said property is legally permitted and zoned for such use.
BUYER: Any person, partnership, association, corporation, fiduciary or other
legal entity that agrees to transfer anything of value in consideration for
real property via an "agreement" as that term is defined in this section.
DANGEROUS BUILDING: Any building or structure reasonably deemed by qualified
town staff to represent a violation of any provision specified in this code.
DAYS: Calendar days.
DEED IN LIEU OF TRANSFER/FORECLOSURE: A recorded instrument that transfers
ownership of real property between parties to a particular deed of trust as
follows: From the trustor, i.e., borrower, to the trustee upon consent of the
beneficiary, i.e., lender.
DEED OF TRUST: An instrument whereby an owner of real property, as trustor,
transfers a secured interest in the real property in question to a third party
trustee, said instrument relating to a loan issued in the context of a real
property transaction. This definition applies to any and all subordinate deeds
of trust, i.e., second trust deed, third trust deed, etc.
DEFAULT: The material breach of a legal or contractual duty arising from or
relating to a deed of trust, such as a trustor's failure to make a payment when
due.
DISTRESSED: Any building, structure or real property that is subject to a
current notice of default and/or notice of trustee's sale, pending tax
assessors lien sale and/or any real property conveyed via a foreclosure sale
resulting in the acquisition of title by an interested beneficiary of a deed of
trust, and/or any real property conveyed via a deed in lieu of foreclosure/
sale, regardless of vacancy or occupancy by a person with no legal right of
occupancy.
ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL: The town manager, the building official, and/or employee
or agent of the town designated and/or charged with enforcing this code
including, but not limited to, applicable codes adopted by reference therein.
FORECLOSURE: The process by which real property subject to a deed of trust is
sold to satisfy the debt of a defaulting trustor, i.e., borrower.
LENDER: A beneficiary or any entity holding a deed of trust.
LOCAL: Within forty (40) driving miles of the building, structure or real
property in question.
NEIGHBORHOOD STANDARD: The condition of real property that prevails in and
through the neighborhood where an abandoned building, structure or real
property is located. Neighborhood standards must comply with
chapter 6.04, "Abatement Of Public Nuisances", of this title. When determining
the neighborhood standard, no abandoned or distressed building, structure or
real property shall be considered.
NOTICE OF DEFAULT: A recorded instrument that reflects and provides notice that
a default has taken place with respect to a deed of trust, and that a
beneficiary intends to proceed with a trustee's sale.
OUT OF AREA: In excess of forty (40) road or driving miles of the subject
property.
OWNER: Any person, partnership, association, corporation, fiduciary or other
legal entity having a legal or equitable title or any interest in real
property.
OWNER OF RECORD: The person holding recorded title to the real property in
question at any point in time when official records are produced by the San
Bernardino County recorder's office.
PENALTY DUE DATE: The date given in a formal notice issued by the town of Yucca
Valley stating a specific date a penalty will apply to the cited property or
person.
PROPERTY: Any unimproved or improved real property, or portion thereof,
including, but not limited to, buildings or structures located on said real
property, regardless of condition.
SECURING: Such measures as may be directed by an enforcement official that
assist in rendering real property inaccessible to unauthorized persons,
including, but not limited to, repairing fences and walls, chaining/padlocking
gates, the repairing or boarding of doors, windows or other openings. Such
measures shall be implemented in conformance with all applicable standards of
the United States department of housing and urban development.
TRUSTEE: Any person, partnership, association, corporation, fiduciary or other
legal entity holding a deed of trust securing an interest in real property.
TRUSTOR: Any owner/borrower identified in a deed of trust, who transfers an
interest in real property to a trustee as security for payment of a debt by
that owner/trustor.
VACANT: Any building, structure or real property that is unoccupied or occupied
by a person without a legal right of occupancy. (Ord. 219, 1-18-2011)
6.08.030: DUTY TO RECORD ASSIGNMENT OF RENTS:
Within ten (10) days of a property transaction involving a change in the
identity of an owner or the owner of record, or alternatively a transfer/
assignment of a loan or deed of trust secured by residential or commercial
property, each beneficiary and trustee engaged in said transaction or transfer/
assignment shall record, via the San Bernardino County recorder's office, an
assignment of rents or similar instrument. This instrument shall reflect the
identity, mailing address and telephone number of the trustee and beneficiary
responsible for receiving payments associated with the loan or deed of trust in
question. This duty/obligation shall be joint and several among and between all
trustees and beneficiaries and their respective agents. (Ord. 219, 1-18-2011)
6.08.040: MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS:
It is declared a public nuisance for any person, partnership, association,
corporation, fiduciary or other legal entity, that owns, leases, occupies,
controls or manages any property to cause, permit, or maintain any property
condition contrary to any provision of this chapter.
   A.   Any property subject to this section must comply with the requirements
of
chapter 6.04, "Abatement Of Public Nuisances", of this title.
   B.   In addition, the property shall be kept free of weeds, dry brush, dead
vegetation, trash, junk, debris, building materials, any accumulation of
newspaper, circular, fliers, notices (except those required by federal, state
or local law), discarded personal items including, but not limited to,
furniture, clothing, large and small appliances, printed material or any other
items that give the appearance that the property is abandoned.
   C.   The property shall be maintained free of graffiti, tagging or similar
marking. Any removal or painting over of graffiti shall be with an exterior
grade paint that matches the color of the exterior of the structure.
   D.   Visible front and side yards or other property shall be landscaped and
maintained to the neighborhood standard in accordance with
chapter 6.04, "Abatement Of Public Nuisances", of this title.
   E.   Landscaping includes, but is not limited to, grass, ground covers,
bushes, shrubs, hedges or similar plantings, decorative rock, gravel, or bark
or artificial turf/sod designed specifically for residential installation.
   F.   Landscaping does not include weeds, broken concrete, asphalt, plastic
sheeting, mulch, indoor-outdoor carpet or any similar material.
   G.   Pools and spas shall be kept in working order so that water remains
clear and free of pollutants and debris, or alternatively shall be drained and
kept dry. In either case, properties with pools and/or spas must comply with
the minimum security fencing requirements of the state of California.
   H.   Adherence to this section does not relieve the owner of record or other
person(s)/entity(ies) in possession, management or control of the property of
the obligations set forth in any covenants, conditions and restrictions and/or
homeowners' association rules and regulations which may apply to the property.
   I.   The duties and obligations specified in this section shall be joint and
several among and between all owners of record or other person(s)/entity(ies)
in possession, management or control of the property and their respective
agents.
The sole exception to these maintenance requirements shall, within the sole
reasonable discretion of a duly authorized enforcement official, apply to
property that is under construction and/or repair, not less than three (3)
business days per week, undertaken in compliance with all applicable law
including, but not limited to, town permitting requirements. (Ord. 219, 1-18-
2011)
6.08.050: SECURITY REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Abandoned properties shall be maintained in a secure manner so as not
to be accessible to unauthorized persons.
   B.   Secure manner includes, but is not limited to, closing and locking of
windows, doors (walk through, sliding and garage), gates and any other opening
that may allow access to the interior of the property and or structure(s). In
the case of broken windows, securing means reglazing or boarding the window.
   C.   If the abandoned property is owned by a corporation and/or out of area
beneficiary, trustee, or owner of record, a local property management company
shall be contracted to perform weekly inspections to verify that the
requirements of this section, and any other applicable laws, are being met.
      1.   The abandoned property shall be posted with the name and twenty four
(24) hour contact phone number of the local property management company. The
posting shall be no less than eighteen inches by twenty seven inches (18" x
27"), shall be of a font that is legible from a distance of forty five feet
(45'), and shall contain the following verbiage:
THIS PROPERTY MANAGED BY               , and TO REPORT PROBLEMS OR CONCERNS,
CALL (name and phone number).
      2.   The posting shall be placed on the interior of a window facing the
street to the front of the abandoned property so it is visible from the street,
or secured to the exterior of the building/structure facing the street to the
front of the property so it is visible from the street. If no such area exists,
the posting shall be on a stake of sufficient size to support the posting, in a
location that is visible from the street to the front of the property, and to
the extent possible, not readily accessible to potential vandalism. Exterior
posting must be constructed of, and printed with weather resistant materials.
      3.   The local property management company shall inspect the property on
a weekly basis to determine if the property is in compliance with the
requirements of this chapter. If the property management company determines the
property is not in compliance, it is the company's responsibility to bring the
property into compliance.
   D.   The duties/obligations specified in this section shall be joint and
several among and between all owners of record or other person(s)/entity(ies)
in possession, management or control of the property and their respective
agents. (Ord. 219, 1-18-2011)
6.08.060: ADDITIONAL AUTHORITY:
In addition to the enforcement remedies established in this chapter, the town
shall have the authority to require the owners of record or other person(s)/
entity(ies) in actual possession, management or control of any abandoned
property affected by this chapter to implement additional maintenance and/or
security measures including, but not limited to, securing any and all doors,
windows or other openings, installing additional security lighting, increasing
on site inspection frequency, employment of an on site security guard or other
measures as may be reasonably required to secure and reduce the visual decline
of the property. (Ord. 219, 1-18-2011)
6.08.070: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Any violation of this chapter shall be treated as a strict liability
offense; a violation shall be deemed to have occurred regardless of a
violator's intent.
   B.   Any person, partnership, association, corporation, fiduciary or other
legal entity, that owns, leases, occupies, controls or manages any abandoned
property and causes, permits, or maintains a violation of this chapter as to
that property, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof,
shall be punished as provided in this code.
   C.   This section is intended to be cumulative to, and not in place of,
other rights and remedies available to the town pursuant to this code. Above
and beyond the violation and penalty specified in this section, the town
attorney or a duly authorized enforcement official may pursue any other right
or remedy permitted by this code, including, but not limited to, commencement
of any civil action, or administrative action to abate the condition of a
property as a public nuisance pursuant to
 chapter 6.04 of this title or this chapter.
   D.   In the event the town takes administrative action to abate the
condition of an abandoned property above and beyond the rights and remedies
specified in chapter 6.04 of this title, the following administrative penalties
shall apply:
      1.   On the administrative penalty due date, each party subject to an
abatement order shall pay an administrative penalty of one thousand dollars
($1,000.00).
      2.   In the event that a violation of this chapter addressed by an
abatement order has not been abated, cured, remedied and/or eliminated to the
reasonable satisfaction of a duly authorized enforcement official by the
fifteenth day after the administrative penalty due date, each party subject to
said abatement order shall pay a supplemental administrative penalty of five
thousand dollars ($5,000.00).
      3.   In the event that a violation of this chapter addressed by an
abatement order has not been abated, cured, remedied and/or eliminated to the
reasonable satisfaction of a duly authorized enforcement official by the
thirtieth day after the administrative penalty due date, each party subject to
said abatement order shall pay a second supplemental administrative penalty of
twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00).
   E.   In each instance when a party becomes subject to an administrative
penalty specified in this section, an enforcement official shall issue an order
providing written notice of that party's obligation to make payment of said
administrative penalty. Each such order shall constitute a special assessment
against the property in question having the same legal status as an order
determining the cost of abatement of a public nuisance pursuant to the
provisions of
chapter 6.04 of this title.
   F.   In each instance when a party becomes subject to an administrative
penalty specified in this section, and the order providing for said
administrative penalty issues when that party is either seeking to perfect its
interest in the abandoned property subsequent to the recordation of a notice of
default, or is the property's owner of record, that party is not relieved of
its obligation to pay any administrative penalty based upon the sale of the
property in question to another. (Ord. 219, 1-18-2011)
6.08.080: APPEALS:
Any person aggrieved by any of the requirements of this chapter may appeal a
determination made hereunder in the manner specified with respect to appeals
under title 1,
chapter 1.04 of this code. (Ord. 219, 1-18-2011)
CHAPTER 6.10
SOCIAL HOSTING; CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES AND/OR ILLEGAL SUBSTANCES BY
MINORS
SECTION:
6.10.010: Findings
6.10.020: Definitions
6.10.030: Prohibitions
6.10.040: Protected Activities
6.10.050: Separate Violations For Each Incident
6.10.060: Enforcement Authority
6.10.070: Enforcement Remedies And Penalties Are Cumulative And Discretionary,
Not Exclusive
6.10.080: Criminal Penalties And Citations
6.10.090: Civil Penalties
6.10.100: Administrative Citations
6.10.110: Severability
6.10.120: Local Authority
6.10.010: FINDINGS:
The town council of the town of Yucca Valley makes the following findings
concerning minors' consumption of alcoholic beverages and/or illegal
substances:
   Minors often obtain, possess or consume alcoholic beverages or illegal
substances at gatherings held on private property under the control of a person
who knows or should know of the conduct but fails to stop it.
   Underage consumption of alcoholic beverages and use of illegal substances
pose an immediate threat to the public health, safety and welfare in that such
activities are known to increase alcohol and drug abuse by minors, physical
altercations, violent crimes including rape and other sexual offenses,
accidental injury, neighborhood vandalism and excessive noise disturbance, all
of which may require intervention by local law enforcement and other emergency
response personnel.
   Law enforcement and other emergency personnel responses to disturbances
involving underage consumption of alcoholic beverages and use of illegal
substances at gatherings frequently require the use of extensive resources.
Further, when these personnel respond to such disturbances, it limits their
ability to respond to other service calls in the community, thereby placing the
community at increased risk. Law enforcement and other emergency personnel are
not currently reimbursed for their expenses when called to disturbances
involving underage consumption of alcoholic beverages and/or illegal substances
at gatherings.
The prohibitions found in this chapter are reasonable and expected to deter
consumption of alcoholic beverages and illegal substances by minors by holding
persons responsible who encourage, and are aware of or should be aware of, the
illegal consumption of alcoholic beverages and the use of illegal substances by
minors, but fail to take reasonable steps to prevent it. (Ord. 232, 10-4-2011)
6.10.020: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply to this chapter:
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE: Alcohol, spirits, liquor, wine, beer, and every liquid or
solid containing alcohol, spirits, wine, or beer, and which contains one-half
of one percent or more of alcohol by volume and which is fit or used for
beverage purposes either alone or when diluted, mixed, or combined with other
substances.
ENFORCEMENT SERVICES: The actual amount of time spent by law enforcement, code
enforcement, fire or other emergency response personnel in responding to, or in
remaining at, or returning from a gathering at which a minor obtains, possesses
or uses alcoholic beverages and/or illegal substances including, but not
limited to, the salaries and benefits of these personnel, the actual cost of
medical treatment incurred by these personnel, administrative costs
attributable to the incident, the cost of repairing or replacing any damaged
town property, and any other allowable costs related to the enforcement of this
chapter.
GATHERING: A party, event or other group of two (2) or more persons who have
assembled or are assembling for a social occasion or other activity on private
property.
ILLEGAL SUBSTANCES: A drug or substance whose possession and use are regulated
under the controlled substances act, title II of the comprehensive drug abuse
prevention and control act of 1970 (Pub.L. 91-513, 84 stat. 1236, enacted
October 27, 1970, codified at 21 USC section 801 et seq.). Such term does not
include any drug or substance for which the individual found to have consumed
such substance has a valid prescription issued by a licensed medical
practitioner authorized to issue such a prescription.
JUVENILE: Any person under the age of eighteen (18) years.
LEGAL GUARDIAN: A person who is legally vested with the power and charged with
the duty of taking care of a juvenile.
MINOR: Any person under the age of twenty one (21) years.
PARENT: Any person who is a natural parent, an adoptive parent, a foster
parent, a stepparent, or who acts in loco parentis for a juvenile.
PRIVATE PROPERTY: A private residence, where one actually lives or has his or
her home, or any other privately owned land, including vacant land or any
appurtenances or structures on the land, in the incorporated area of the town.
SOCIAL HOST: Any of the following:
   A.   The person or persons who owns, rents, or is otherwise in charge of
private property where a gathering takes place where one or more minors consume
one or more alcoholic beverages and/or illegal substances;
   B.   The person or persons authorizing the use of private property for a
gathering where one or more minors consume one or more alcoholic beverages and/
or illegal substances; or
   C.   The person or persons who organized a gathering where one or more
minors consume one or more alcoholic beverages and/or illegal substances. (Ord.
232, 10-4-2011)
6.10.030: PROHIBITIONS:
It is the duty of a social host who knowingly hosts, permits, or allows a
gathering on the property to take all reasonable steps to prevent the
consumption of alcoholic beverages and illegal substances by any minor at the
gathering. Reasonable steps include, but are not limited to: a) controlling
access to alcoholic beverages and illegal substances, b) controlling the
quantity of alcoholic beverages and illegal substances present at the
gathering, c) verifying the age of each person attending the gathering by
inspecting each person's driver's license or other government issued
identification card and d) supervising the activities of minors at the
gathering.
No social host shall allow a gathering to take place or continue on his/her
private property if a minor at the gathering obtains, possesses, or consumes
any alcoholic beverage and the social host knows or reasonably should know,
that the minor has obtained, possesses, or is consuming alcoholic beverages
and/or illegal substances at the gathering.
No social host shall allow a gathering to take place or continue on his/her
private property if a minor at the gathering obtains, possesses, or consumes
any alcoholic beverage, when the social host has not taken all reasonable steps
to prevent the consumption of alcoholic beverages and the use of illegal
substances by any minor at the gathering. (Ord. 232, 10-4-2011)
6.10.040: PROTECTED ACTIVITIES:
This chapter shall not apply to any person who provides an alcoholic beverage
to a minor as permitted by article 1, section 4, of the California
constitution. (Ord. 232, 10-4-2011)
6.10.050: SEPARATE VIOLATIONS FOR EACH INCIDENT:
Each incident in violation of section
6.10.030 of this chapter shall constitute a separate offense and shall be
punishable or actionable as set forth in this chapter. (Ord. 232, 10-4-2011)
6.10.060: ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY:
The town attorney and the San Bernardino County sheriff are authorized to
administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter. The town attorney and
the San Bernardino sheriff may exercise any enforcement powers provided by law.
(Ord. 232, 10-4-2011)
6.10.070: ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES AND PENALTIES ARE CUMULATIVE AND DISCRETIONARY,
NOT EXCLUSIVE:
All remedies and penalties provided for in this chapter shall be cumulative and
discretionary, and not exclusive, in accordance with this section. (Ord. 232,
10-4-2011)
6.10.080: CRIMINAL PENALTIES AND CITATIONS:
Any person who violates section
6.10.030 of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished in
the same manner as provided by in title 1,
chapter 1.02 of this code.
Criminal citations shall be issued in the same manner and under the same
authority as provided by title 1,
chapter 1.02 of this code except as otherwise specified in this chapter. (Ord.
232, 10-4-2011)
6.10.090: CIVIL PENALTIES:
Pursuant to California Civil Code section 1714.1, any act of wilful misconduct
of a juvenile that results in injury or death to another person or in injury to
the property of another shall be imputed to the parent or legal guardian having
custody and control of the juvenile for all purposes of civil damages, and the
parent or legal guardian having custody and control shall be jointly and
severally liable with the juvenile for any damages resulting from the wilful
misconduct.
When a person(s) responsible for a gathering is a juvenile, the parents or
legal guardian(s) of that juvenile shall be jointly and severally liable for
the costs incurred for enforcement services pursuant to this chapter.
A social host shall be liable for the cost of providing enforcement services in
response to a gathering in which a minor(s) has obtained, possessed, or
consumed alcoholic beverages or used illegal substances. Such costs include the
town's reasonable attorney fees in the event of litigation.
All violations of this chapter may be subject to enforcement through the
initiation of a civil action. (Ord. 232, 10-4-2011)
6.10.100: ADMINISTRATIVE CITATIONS:
As an alternative to the criminal or civil enforcement of this chapter, all
violations of this chapter may be subject to enforcement through the use of
administrative citations in accordance with California Government Code section
53069.4 and in the same manner and under the same authority as provided at
title 1,
 chapter 1.04 of this code. (Ord. 232, 10-4-2011)
6.10.110: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision of this chapter or its application to any person or
circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect other provisions
or applications of this chapter that can be given effect without the invalid
provision or application, and to this end the provisions of this chapter are
severable. (Ord. 232, 10-4-2011)
6.10.120: LOCAL AUTHORITY:
No provision within this chapter shall apply where prohibited or preempted by
state or federal law. (Ord. 232, 10-4-2011)
TITLE 7
RESERVED
 
TITLE 8
BUILDINGS AND CONSTRUCTION
CHAPTER 8.02
BUILDING CODES
SECTION:
8.02.010: Findings
8.02.020: Building Code Adopted; Amendments
8.02.030: California Residential Building Code
8.02.040: California Electrical Code
8.02.050: California Plumbing Code
8.02.060: California Existing Building Code
8.02.070: California Historical Building Code
8.02.080: California Reference Standards Code
8.02.090: California Mechanical Code
8.02.100: California Green Building Standards
8.02.110: California Energy Code
8.02.120: California International Property Maintenance Code
8.02.130: Violations And Penalties
8.02.010: FINDINGS:
   A.   Government Code sections 50022.1 et seq., provide that ordinances and
codes of the federal, state or any agency of either of them may be adopted by
reference, provided that prior to such adoption by reference a noticed public
hearing has been held.
   B.   Pursuant to section 17958.5 of the Health and Safety Code of the State
of California, The Town Council of the Town of Yucca Valley hereby finds that
the amendments of the building standards contained in the California Building
Code, volumes 1, 2, 2019 Edition are necessary due to:
      1.   Local Climatic Conditions:
         a.   The Town is subject to extremely strong winds, commonly known as
"Santa Ana Winds" which can reach speeds in excess of ninety (90) miles per
hour. Extensive damage frequently accompanies these winds, such as blowing sand
and debris, downed power lines, fallen trees, overturned vehicles and
structural damage to buildings. These conditions result in increased demand for
fire services, blocked or delayed emergency vehicle access and impaired water
supplies and building emergency systems.
         b.   During the summer months, the Santa Ana Winds may produce periods
of extremely low humidity, thereby reducing the fuels moisture and increasing
the possibility and severity of fire from dry vegetation and other common
combustibles.
         c.   During the summer months, much of the Town experiences prolonged
periods of temperatures in excess of one hundred degrees Fahrenheit (100°F).
When coupled with sustained severe Santa Ana Winds, an increase in the threat
from rapidly moving wildfires exists.
         d.   During the winter months, heavy rains routinely cause damage to
roadways rendering them completely impassible, or with limited access,
sometimes for extended periods.
         e.   During winter months, heavy snow and ice conditions exist in the
mountain areas resulting in increased demand for fire services and limiting or
delaying emergency vehicle access. In some cases, emergency vehicle access
roads are completely impassible, or have limited access, sometimes for extended
periods.
      2.   Local Geological Conditions:
         a.   The Town is subject to moderately strong to severe shaking and
surface ruptures resulting from known earthquake faults located within or near
the Town. These local earthquake faults have the potential to cause severe
personal and property damage, utility interruptions, fire hazards and hazardous
materials releases. Additionally, significant roadway, bridge structure, water
supply and communications systems are subject to failure, thereby causing a
detriment to emergency services response.
         b.   Unstable slopes in several areas throughout the Town have
experienced soil movement as a result of heavy or soaking rains, resulting in
damage to roadways, structures and utilities.
         c.   Some desert areas of the Town have limited aquifers,
exceptionally deep aquifers or aquifers providing only brackish or contaminated
water supplies. These limits, or in some cases eliminates, water supplies
available for firefighting purposes.
      3.   Local Topographical Conditions:
         a.   The Town encompasses an area with limited access routes
connecting valley, mountain and desert areas. This distance, combined with
these limited access routes, results in delays in the reallocation of resources
to emergency scenes.
         b.   The topography of the Town is exceptionally diverse, ranging from
relatively flat desert and valley areas, to foothill areas, and canyon areas.
This results in some areas that are inaccessible to radio communications, which
hampers emergency response capabilities.
         c.   The diverse topography of the Town results in many areas having
limited, unreliable or unavailable water supplies available for firefighting
purposes.
   C.   Copies of these codes and standards were filed with the office of the
Town Clerk fifteen (15) days prior to the noticed hearing.
   D.   A noticed public hearing has been held by the Town Council, at which
time all interested persons had the opportunity to appear and be heard on the
matter of adopting by reference the current editions of certain model codes, as
follows:
      1.   California Building Code, 2022 Edition, volumes 1, 2 with Appendix
F, G, H, I, J, N.
      2.   California Residential Building Code, 2022 Edition with Appendices.
      3.   California Mechanical Code, 2019 Edition with Appendix and
Standards.
      4.   California Plumbing Code 2019 Edition with Appendix H.
      5.   California Electrical Code, 2022 Edition.
      6.   California Green Building Code, 2022 Edition.
      7.   California Energy Code, 2022 Edition.
      8.   California Historic Building Code, 2022 Edition.
      9.   California Fire Code, 2022 Edition.
      10.   California Administrative Code, 2022 Edition.
      11.   The 2021 International Property Maintenance Code.
   E.   Pursuant to section 17958.5 of the Health and Safety Code of the State
of California, The Town Council of the Town of Yucca Valley hereby finds that
the amendments of the building standards contained in the California Building
Code, volumes 1, 2, 2022 Edition are necessary due to past earthquakes (Landers
1992) and the inherent run off problems incurred with severe thunderstorm
activity and flooding due to the Town's desert location. (Ord. 262, 1-17-2017;
amd. Ord. 287, 11-19-2019; Ord. 303, 11-15-2022)
8.02.020: BUILDING CODE ADOPTED; AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Building Code Adopted:
      1.   Except as hereinafter provided, the California Building Code, 2022
Edition, volumes 1, and 2 published by the International Code Council. All
California Building Code Appendix chapters with the exception of Appendix
chapters F, G, H, I, J, N; Elevator Safety Code Title 24 part 7 for Elevators
and Escalators, Society of Mechanical Engineers; Structural Welding Code-
Reinforcing Steel, AWS D1.4-92 (UBC Standard No.19-2); Structural Welding Code-
Steel, ANSI/AWS D1.1-84 (UBC Standard No.27-6) and Structural Welding Code-
Sheet Steel, ANSI/AWS D1.3-81 (UBC Standard No. 27-13) published by the
American Welding Society; as modified or amended in the California Building
Code referenced herein; is hereby adopted by reference as the Building Code of
the Town of Yucca Valley for regulating the erection, construction,
enlargement, alteration, repair, moving, removal, demolition, conversion,
occupancy, equipment use, height area, maintenance of all buildings or
structures in the Town of Yucca Valley providing for the issuance of all
permits and collection of fees therefore; and each and all of the regulations,
provisions, conditions and terms of such California Building Code, 2022
Edition, volumes 1, 2, published by the International Code Council above,
except as amended herein, all of which are on file in the office of the Town
Clerk, Town of Yucca Valley are hereby referred to, adopted and made part
hereof as if fully set out in this chapter.
      2.   A copy of the Building Code of the Town of Yucca Valley shall be
maintained in the office of the Town Clerk in the Town of Yucca Valley and
shall be made available for public inspection while this Code is in force.
   B.   Building Code Amended: The 2022 California Building Code as adopted by
referenced herein is amended as follows:
      1.   The California Building Code, chapter 1, division II, section 104.8,
"Liability", is hereby amended to read as follows:
      The Building Official, or his authorized representative charged with the
enforcement of this Code and the technical codes, acting in good faith and
without malice in the discharge of his duties, shall not thereby render himself
personally liable for any damage that may accrue to persons or property as a
result of any act or by reason of any act or omission in the discharge of his
duties.
      Such Codes shall not be construed to relieve from or lessen the
responsibility of any person owning, operating or controlling any building,
structure or building service equipment therein for any damages to persons or
property caused by defects, nor shall the code enforcement agency or its parent
jurisdiction be held as assuming any such liability by reason of the inspection
authorized by this code or any permits or certificates issued under this code.
      2.   California Building Code chapter 1, volume 1, section 109, "Fees",
shall be amended to read as follows:
      (A) All fees shall be as set forth in the most recent resolution of the
Town Council regarding fees for building, plumbing, mechanical, electrical,
elevator and grading permits and plan review.
      3.   California Building Code chapter 15, volume 1, section 1505.1, "Roof
Covering Requirements", is hereby amended by addition of the following
sentence:
      The roof covering on any structure regulated by this Code shall be Class
"A" as classified in Section 1505.2. Exception: Repairs of and additions to
existing structures which requires the replacement or addition of 25% or less
of the total roof area may be made using material matching the existing roof.
      4.   Sections J101.3, "Grading Design", and J110.1, "Erosion Control", of
California Building Code Appendix J, "Excavation and Grading", is hereby
restated to read as follows:
      (7) Grading Designation
         Grading in excess of 2500 cubic yards shall be performed in accordance
with the approved grading plan prepared by a civil engineer and shall be
designated "engineered grading." Grading involving less than 2500 cubic yards
shall be designated "regular grading" unless the Town Engineer determines that
special conditions or unusual hazards exist, in which case grading shall
conform to the requirements for engineered grading.
      (8) Erosion Control
         (a) Erosion control shall be indicated on all grading plans and
implemented based upon the best management practices in the most recent
editions of Erosion and Sediment Control Field Manual, Fourth Edition,
California Regional Water Quality Control Board, San Francisco Bay Region,
2002; Stormwater Best Management Practices Handbook - Construction, California
Stormwater Quality Association, January 2015; and Construction Site Best
Management Practices (BMP) Manual, State of California, Department of
Transportation.
      5.   California Building Code chapter 18, volume 2, is hereby amended by
addition of the following section 1802.1.1.1, "Soils and Foundation" which
reads:
      The Town Engineer may require an engineering geology or geotechnical
engineering report, or both, where in his opinion such reports are essential
for the evaluation of the safety of the site. The engineering geology or
geotechnical engineering report, or both shall contain a finding regarding the
safety of the building site for the proposed structure against hazard from
landslide, settlement, or slippage and a finding regarding the effect that the
proposed building or grading construction will have on the geologic stability
of property outside the building site. Any engineering geology report shall be
prepared by a certified engineering geologist licensed by the State of
California. Any geotechnical engineering report shall be prepared by a civil
engineer qualified to perform this work, such as a geotechnical engineer
experienced in soils mechanics. When both an engineering geology and
geotechnical engineering report are required for the evaluation of the safety
of the site, the two reports shall be coordinated before submission to the Town
Engineer.
(Ord. 262, 1-17-2017; amd. Ord. 287, 11-19-2019; Ord. 303, 11-15-2022)
8.02.030: CALIFORNIA RESIDENTIAL BUILDING CODE:
   A.   Residential Building Code Adopted By Reference: Except as hereinafter
provided, with the acceptation of appendices AA, AB, AC, AD, AE, AF, AG, AI,
AK, AL, AN, AP, AO, AR, AS, AT, AU, AV, AW & AY, the Residential Code, 2022
Edition, published by the International Code Council is hereby adopted by
reference as the Residential Building Code of the Town of Yucca Valley. A copy
of the California Residential Building Code, 2022 Edition, shall be maintained
in the office of the Town Clerk of the Town of Yucca Valley and shall be made
available for public inspection while this Code is in force. (Ord. 262, 1-17-
2017; amd. Ord. 287, 11-19-2019; Ord. 303, 11-15-2022)
8.02.040: CALIFORNIA ELECTRICAL CODE:
   A.   Electrical Code Adopted By Reference: Except as hereinafter provided,
the California Electrical Code, 2022 Edition, published by the National Fire
Protection Association is hereby adopted by reference as the Electrical Code of
the Town of Yucca Valley. A copy of the California Electrical Code, 2022
Edition, shall be maintained in the office of the Town Clerk of the Town of
Yucca Valley and shall be made available for public inspection while this Code
is in force.
   B.   Electrical Code Amended: The administrative provisions governing the
California Electrical Code, 2022 Edition, Annex H including violation and
penalty provisions shall be as set forth in Section 14 of this Chapter. (Ord.
262, 1-17-2017; amd. Ord. 287, 11-19-2019; Ord. 303, 11-15-2022)
8.02.050: CALIFORNIA PLUMBING CODE:
   A.   Plumbing Code Adopted By Reference: Except as hereinafter provided, the
California Plumbing Code, 2022 Edition, published by the Uniform Plumbing Code,
and including the installation standards contained in is hereby adopted by
reference as the Plumbing Code of the Town of Yucca Valley. A copy of the
California Plumbing Code 2022 Edition, including the installation standards
shall be maintained in the office of the Town Clerk of the Town of Yucca Valley
and shall be made available for public inspection while this Code is in force.
   B.   Plumbing Code Amended: The administrative provisions of the California
Plumbing Code, 2022 Edition, contained in part one of that Code except sections
101.1, 101.2 101.3 and 101.4 are hereby deleted. The administrative provisions
governing the Plumbing Code, including violation and penalty provisions, shall
be as set forth in Section 14 of this Chapter. (Ord. 262, 1-17-2017; amd. Ord.
287, 11-19-2019; Ord. 303, 11-15-2022)
8.02.060: CALIFORNIA EXISTING BUILDING CODE:
   A.   Existing Building Code Adopted By Reference: Except as hereinafter
provided, the California Existing Building Code, 2022 Edition, published by the
International Code Council is hereby adopted by reference as the Existing
Building Code of the Town of Yucca Valley. A copy of the California Existing
Building Code, 2022 Edition, shall be maintained in the office of the Town
Clerk of the Town of Yucca Valley and shall be made available for public
inspection while this Code is in force. (Ord. 262, 1-17-2017; amd. Ord. 287,
11-19-2019; Ord. 303, 11-15-2022)
8.02.070: CALIFORNIA HISTORICAL BUILDING CODE:
   A.   Historical Building Code Adopted By Reference: Except as hereinafter
provided, the California Historical Building Code, 2022 Edition, published by
the International Code Council is hereby adopted by reference as the Historical
Building Code of the Town of Yucca Valley. A copy of the California Historical
Building Code, 2022 Edition, shall be maintained in the office of the Town
Clerk of the Town of Yucca Valley and shall be made available for public
inspection while this Code is in force. (Ord. 262, 1-17-2017; amd. Ord. 287,
11-19-2019; Ord. 303, 11-15-2022)
8.02.080: CALIFORNIA REFERENCE STANDARDS CODE:
   A.   California Reference Standards Code Adopted By Reference: Except as
hereinafter provided, the California Reference Standards Code, 2022 Edition,
published by the International Code Council is hereby adopted by reference as
the California Reference Standards Code of the Town of Yucca Valley. A copy of
the California Reference Standards Code, 2022 Edition, shall be maintained in
the office of the Town Clerk of the Town of Yucca Valley and shall be made
available for public inspection while this Code is in force. (Ord. 262, 1-17-
2017; amd. Ord. 287, 11-19-2019; Ord. 303, 11-15-2022)
8.02.090: CALIFORNIA MECHANICAL CODE:
   A.   Mechanical Code Adopted By Reference: Except as hereinafter provided,
the California Mechanical Code, 2022 Edition, published by the International
Association of Plumbing and Mechanical Officials, is hereby adopted by
reference as the Mechanical Code of the Town of Yucca Valley. A copy of the
California Mechanical Code, 2022 Edition shall be maintained in the office of
the Town Clerk of the Town of Yucca Valley and shall be made available for
public inspection while this Code is in force.
   B.   Mechanical Code Amended: The administrative provisions of the
California Mechanical Code, 2022 Edition, contained in Part I except sections
101 and 102 are hereby deleted. The administrative provisions governing the
Mechanical Code, including violation and penalty provisions, shall be as set
forth in Section
8.02.130. (Ord. 262, 1-17-2017; amd. Ord. 287, 11-19-2019; Ord. 303, 11-15-
2022)
8.02.100: CALIFORNIA GREEN BUILDING STANDARDS:
   A.   California Green Building Standards Adopted By Reference: Except as
hereinafter provided, the California Green Building Standards, 2022 Edition,
published by the California Building Standards Commission is hereby adopted by
reference as the Green Building Standards of the Town of Yucca Valley. A copy
of the California Green Building Standards, 2022 Edition, shall be maintained
in the office of the Town Clerk of the Town of Yucca Valley and shall be made
available for public inspection while this Code is in force. (Ord. 262, 1-17-
2017; amd. Ord. 287, 11-19-2019; Ord. 303, 11-15-2022)
8.02.110: CALIFORNIA ENERGY CODE:
   A.   California Energy Code Adopted By Reference: Except as hereinafter
provided, the California Energy Code, 2022 Edition, published by the California
Building Standards Commission is hereby adopted by reference as the California
Energy Code of the Town of Yucca Valley. A copy of the California Energy Code,
2022 Edition, shall be maintained in the office of the Town Clerk of the Town
of Yucca Valley and shall be made available for public inspection while this
Code is in force. (Ord. 262, 1-17-2017; amd. Ord. 287, 11-19-2019; Ord. 303,
11-15-2022)
8.02.120: CALIFORNIA INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE:
Except as hereinafter provided, the International Property Maintenance Code,
2018 Edition, published by the International Code Council, is hereby adopted by
reference as the Housing Code of the Town of Yucca Valley. A copy of the
International Property Maintenance Code, 2021 Edition, shall be maintained in
the office of the Town Clerk for public inspection while this Code is in force.
(Ord. 262, 1-17-2017; amd. Ord. 287, 11-19-2019; Ord. 303, 11-15-2022)
8.02.130: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Violations and penalties pertaining to violations of this Chapter 8.02
shall be as follows:
      1.   Unlawful Acts: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to erect, construct, alter, extend, repair, move, remove, demolish
or occupy any building, structure or equipment regulated by this Chapter, or
cause same to be done, in conflict with or in violation of any of the
provisions of this Chapter.
      2.   Notice Of Violation: The building official is authorized to serve a
notice of violation or order on the person responsible for the erection,
construction, alteration, extension, repair, moving, removal, demolition or
occupancy of a building or structure in violation of the provisions of this
Chapter, or in violation of a permit or certificate issued under the provisions
of this Chapter. Such order shall direct the discontinuance of the illegal
action or condition and the abatement of the violation.
      3.   Prosecution Of Violation: If the notice of violation is not complied
with promptly, the building official is authorized to request the Town Attorney
to institute the appropriate proceeding at law or in equity to restrain,
correct or abate such violation, or to require the removal or termination of
the unlawful occupancy of the building or structure in violation of the
provisions of this Code or of the order or direction made pursuant thereto.
      4.   Violation Penalties: Any person who violates a provision of this
Code or fails to comply with any of the requirements thereof or who erects,
constructs, alters or repairs a building or structure in violation of the
approved construction documents or directive of the building official, or of a
permit or certificate issued under the provisions of this Code, shall be
subject to penalties as prescribed by law.
   B.   Other Penalties: In addition to the penalties and procedures stated in
this Section, the Town may enforce the provisions of this Chapter by any other
administrative, criminal or civil remedies available to the Town under this
Code. (Ord. 262, 1-17-2017; amd. Ord. 287, 11-19-2019; Ord. 303, 11-15-2022)
CHAPTER 8.03
CONSTRUCTION SITE MAINTENANCE AND TRASH CONTAINMENT
SECTION:
8.03.010: Statement Of Purpose And Authority
8.03.020: Definitions
8.03.030: Containment
8.03.040: Containers
8.03.050: Placement
8.03.060: Refuse Removal
8.03.070: Responsibility
8.03.080: Enforcement And Inspections
8.03.010: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY:
The purpose of this chapter is to establish minimum standards for construction
site maintenance including the collection, storage containment and removal of
construction site trash, rubbish or debris. (Ord. 133, 10-10-2002)
8.03.020: DEFINITIONS:
CONSTRUCTION SITE: Any location where grading, construction or structures,
remodeling, mobile home setdown, renovation or any other work subject to the
issuance of a grading or building permit is occurring.
CONSTRUCTION SITE MAINTENANCE: The routine continuous maintenance of the
construction site in order to adequately contain the storage of trash, rubbish
or debris and maintain a clean and safe construction site.
CONSTRUCTION SITE TRASH, RUBBISH OR DEBRIS: Any container, wrapper, crate or
packaging that accompanies the construction material, any surplus or residual
construction material brought to or originating at the construction site, and
any other residual materials used by the construction workers and brought to
the site. (Ord. 133, 10-10-2002)
8.03.030: CONTAINMENT:
There shall be containment of trash, rubbish and debris on a routine,
continuous basis for each construction site, and there shall be no loose
materials permitted to accumulate on the site or to be carried away by wind or
water. (Ord. 133, 10-10-2002)
8.03.040: CONTAINERS:
Containers used for storage of trash, rubbish and debris until collection and/
or transportation to an approved disposal site shall be either:
   A.   A roll off bin (dumpster) provided by a refuse collection service and
complying with other applicable town code provisions; roll off bins shall have
lids which are kept in the closed position unless opened for placement or
removal of materials; roll off bins shall be emptied when full and under no
circumstances shall construction materials be permitted to overfill the
container;
   B.   A fenced in area of at least one hundred (100) cubic feet with side
walls at least four feet (4') in height and a wire lid shall be required;
material for side walls and lid shall have no openings greater than four inches
(4") in either direction; fenced area shall be securely staked to place and the
fenced area shall be emptied when full, and under no circumstances shall
construction materials or trash be permitted or overfill the container. (Ord.
133, 10-10-2002)
8.03.050: PLACEMENT:
Containers (bins or other said containment areas) shall not be located in a
manner or location that will block or constrict passage of a right of way,
easement, public thoroughfare or other area where right or access may be
required for the public health, safety or welfare.
Containers (bins or other said containment areas) shall be located on the
construction site for each development, project or structure; when multiple
lots or structures are being developed; the said containers shall be as
required in the opinion of the building official. (Ord. 133, 10-10-2002)
8.03.060: REFUSE REMOVAL:
Containers shall be placed at the time construction commences on the site. All
trash, rubbish and debris shall be timely removed from the container as needed
to prevent overfill of the container. Trash, rubbish and debris shall be
removed from the site and transported to an approved disposal facility.
Temporary containers as well as debris, rubbish and trash shall be removed from
the site prior to final inspection. Roll off bins that will remain after
completion of the building may be emptied and placed in their permanent
locations. (Ord. 133, 10-10-2002)
8.03.070: RESPONSIBILITY:
It shall be the responsibility of the permittee or agent to provide for the
construction site maintenance and the containment of all trash, rubbish and
debris during construction and for the proper removal thereof. (Ord. 133, 10-
10-2002)
8.03.080: ENFORCEMENT AND INSPECTIONS:
Any person who violates any provision or who fails to comply with any of the
requirements of this chapter shall be guilty of an infraction and upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished in accordance with the provisions of
sections
1.02.010 through
1.02.090 and/or
1.04.010 through
1.04.070 of this code. Should noncompliance persist, a stop work notice may be
issued by the building official or other proper officer. All building permit or
grading permit inspections when made shall include inspection to ensure
compliance with the provisions of this chapter, and all final approvals shall
be made only after such compliance. The town's inspectors or other proper
officers or employees making construction site inspections shall also inspect
to determine that there is compliance with the provisions of this chapter. When
it appears upon inspection that there is a violation, such additional
inspections may be made until it is found that said provisions have been
satisfied. There shall be a fee for inspections after the initial inspection,
as prescribed by resolution or other enactment by the town council to cover the
costs of said inspections, when required to determine if compliance with the
provisions of this chapter are yet achieved. (Ord. 133, 10-10-2002)
CHAPTER 8.04
FLOOD CONTROL
SECTION:
Part I. General
8.04.010: Statutory Authorization
8.04.011: Findings Of Fact
8.04.012: Statement Of Purpose
8.04.013: Methods Of Reducing Flood Loss
Part II. Definitions
8.04.020: Terms Defined
Part III. General Provisions
8.04.030: Lands To Which This Chapter Applies
8.04.031: Basis For Establishing Areas Of Special Flood Hazards
8.04.032: Compliance
8.04.033: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
8.04.034: Interpretation
8.04.035: Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability
Part IV. Administration
8.04.040: Establishment Of Development Permit
8.04.041: Designation Of Floodplain Administrator
8.04.042: Duties And Responsibilities Of Floodplain Administrator
8.04.043: Appeals
Part V. Provisions For Flood Hazard Reduction
8.04.050: Standards Of Construction
8.04.051: Standards For Utilities
8.04.052: Standards For Subdivisions
8.04.053: Standards For Manufactured Homes
8.04.054: Standards For Recreational Vehicles
8.04.055: Floodways
8.04.056: Mudslide (i.e., Mudflow) Prone Areas
8.04.057: Flood Related Erosion Prone Areas
Part VI. Variance Procedure
8.04.060: Nature Of Variances
8.04.061: Appeal Board
8.04.062: Conditions For Variances
PART I. GENERAL
8.04.010: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION:
The legislature of the state of California has in Government Code sections
65302, 65560, and 65800 conferred upon local government units authority to
adopt regulations designed to promote the public health, safety, and general
welfare of its citizenry. Therefore, the town council of the town of Yucca
Valley does hereby adopt the following floodplain management regulations. (Ord.
201, 5-26-2009)
8.04.011: FINDINGS OF FACT:
   A.   The flood hazard areas of the town of Yucca Valley are subject to
periodic inundation which results in loss of life and property, health and
safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary
public expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax
base, all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general
welfare.
   B.   These flood losses are caused by uses that are inadequately elevated,
floodproofed, or protected from flood damage. The cumulative effect of
obstructions in areas of special flood hazards which increase flood heights and
velocities, and when inadequately anchored, damage uses in other areas. Uses
that are inadequately floodproofed, elevated or otherwise protected from flood
damage also contribute to the flood loss. (Ord. 201, 5-26-2009)
8.04.012: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare, and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   A.   Protect human life and health;
   B.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control projects;
   C.   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   D.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   E.   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, and streets and bridges located
in areas of special flood hazards;
   F.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of areas of special flood hazards so as to minimize future blighted
areas caused by flood damage;
   G.   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in an area
of special flood hazards; and
   H.   Ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazards assume
responsibility for their actions. (Ord. 201, 5-26-2009)
8.04.013: METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSS:
In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter includes methods and
provisions to:
   A.   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water or erosion hazards, or which result in damaging increases
in erosion or flood heights or velocities;
   B.   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   C.   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel floodwaters;
   D.   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
   E.   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards in other
areas. (Ord. 201, 5-26-2009)
PART II. DEFINITIONS
8.04.020: TERMS DEFINED:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter shall
be interpreted so as to give them the meanings they have in common usage and to
give this chapter its most reasonable application.
ACCESSORY USE: A use which is incidental and subordinate to the principal use
of the parcel of land on which it is located.
ALLUVIAL FAN: Geomorphologic feature characterized by a cone or fan shaped
deposit of boulders, gravel and fine sediments that have been eroded from
mountain slopes, transported by flood flows, and then deposited on the valley
floors, and which is subject to flash flooding, high velocity flows, debris
flows, erosion, sediment movement and deposition, and channel migration.
APEX: The point of highest elevation on an alluvial fan, which on undisturbed
fans is generally the point where the major stream that formed the fan emerges
from the mountain front.
APPEAL: A request for a review of the floodplain administrator's interpretation
of any provision of this chapter.
AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING: A designated AO or AH zone on the flood insurance
rate map (FIRM). The base flood depths range from one to three feet (3'); a
clearly defined channel does not exist; the path of flooding is unpredictable
and indeterminate; and velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: See definition of Special Flood Hazard Area
(SFHA).
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD RELATED EROSION HAZARD: The land within a community which
is most likely to be subject to severe flood related erosion losses. The area
may be designated as zone E on the flood insurance rate map (FIRM).
AREA OF SPECIAL MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW) HAZARD: The area subject to severe
mudslides (i.e., mudflows). The area is designated as zone M on the flood
insurance rate map (FIRM).
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year (also called the "100-year flood"). Base flood is
the term used throughout this chapter.
BASEMENT: Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (i.e., below
ground level) on all sides.
BREAKAWAY WALLS: Any type of wall, whether solid or lattice, and whether
constructed of concrete, masonry, wood, metal, plastic or any other suitable
building material which is not part of the structural support of the building
and which is designed to break away under abnormally high tides or wave action
without causing any damage to the structural integrity of the building on which
they are used or any buildings to which they might be carried by floodwaters. A
breakaway wall shall have a safe design loading resistance of not less than ten
(10) and no more than twenty (20) pounds per square foot. Use of breakaway
walls must be certified by a registered engineer or architect and shall meet
the following conditions:
   A.   Breakaway wall collapse shall result from a water load less than that
which would occur during the base flood; and
   B.   The elevated portion of the building shall not incur any structural
damage due to the effects of wind and water loads acting simultaneously in the
event of the base flood.
BUILDING: See definition of Structure.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
ENCROACHMENT: The advance or infringement of uses, plant growth, fill,
excavation, buildings, permanent structures or development into a floodplain
which may impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by the town.
EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: The preparation
of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM): The official map on which the federal
emergency management agency or federal insurance administration has delineated
both the areas of flood hazards and the floodway.
FLOOD, FLOODING, OR FLOODWATER: A. A general and temporary condition of partial
or complete inundation of normally dry land areas from the overflow of
floodwaters; the unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters
from any source; and/or mudslides (i.e., mudflows); and
   B.   The condition resulting from flood related erosion.
FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP: The official map on which the federal emergency
management agency or federal insurance administration has delineated the areas
of flood hazards.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): The official map on which the federal
emergency management agency or federal insurance administration has delineated
both the areas of special flood hazards and the risk premium zones applicable
to the town.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: The official report provided by the federal insurance
administration that includes flood profiles, the FIRM, the flood boundary and
floodway map, and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR: The individual appointed to administer and enforce
the floodplain management regulations.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT: The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including, but not limited
to, emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, and floodplain
management regulations and open space plans.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS: This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances (grading ordinances and erosion control ordinances) and other
applications of police power which control development in flood prone areas.
This term describes such federal, state or local regulations in any combination
thereof, which provide standards for the purpose of flood damage prevention and
reduction.
FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD PRONE AREA: Any land area susceptible to being inundated by
water from any source (see definition of Flood, Flooding, Or Floodwater).
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents. (Refer to FEMA technical bulletins TB 1-93, TB
3-93, and TB 7-93 for guidelines on dry and wet floodproofing.)
FLOODWAY: The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot (1').
Also referred to as "regulatory floodway".
FLOODWAY FRINGE: That area of the floodplain on either side of the "regulatory
floodway" where encroachment may be permitted.
FRAUD AND VICTIMIZATION: As related to part VI, "Variance Procedure", of this
chapter, means that the variance granted must not cause fraud on or
victimization of the public. In examining this requirement, the town of Yucca
Valley will consider the fact that every newly constructed building adds to
government responsibilities and remains a part of the community for fifty (50)
to one hundred (100) years. Buildings that are permitted to be constructed
below the base flood elevation are subject during all those years to increased
risk of damage from floods, while future owners of the property and the
community as a whole are subject to all the costs, inconvenience, danger, and
suffering that those increased flood damages bring. In addition, future owners
may purchase the property, unaware that it is subject to potential flood
damage, and can be insured only at very high flood insurance rates.
GOVERNING BODY: The local governing unit, i.e., county or municipality, that is
empowered to adopt and implement regulations to provide for the public health,
safety and general welfare of its citizenry.
HARDSHIP: As related to part VI, "Variance Procedure", of this chapter, means
the exceptional hardship that would result from a failure to grant the
requested variance. The town council of the town of Yucca Valley requires that
the variance be exceptional, unusual, and peculiar to the property involved.
Mere economic or financial hardship alone is not exceptional. Inconvenience,
aesthetic considerations, physical handicaps, personal preferences, or the
disapproval of one's neighbors likewise cannot, as a rule, qualify as an
exceptional hardship. All of these problems can be resolved through other means
without granting a variance, even if the alternative is more expensive, or
requires the property owner to build elsewhere or put the parcel to a different
use than originally intended.
HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE: The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:
   A.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the department of interior) or preliminarily determined
by the secretary of the interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the national register;
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district;
   C.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states
with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the secretary
of interior; or
   D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified either
by an approved state program as determined by the secretary of the interior or
directly by the secretary of the interior in states without approved programs.
LEVEE: A manmade structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
LEVEE SYSTEM: A flood protection system which consists of a levee, or levees,
and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accord with sound engineering practices.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area including basement
(see definition of Basement).
   A.   An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure below the lowest floor that
is usable solely for parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area
other than a basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor;
provided it conforms to applicable nonelevation design requirements, including,
but not limited to:
      1.    The wet floodproofing standard in section
 8.04.050 of this chapter;
         2.    The anchoring standards in subsection
8.04.050A1 of this chapter;
         3.    The construction materials and methods standards in subsection
8.04.050B of this chapter; and
         4.    The standards for utilities in section
8.04.051 of this chapter.
   B.   For residential structures, all subgrade enclosed areas are prohibited
as they are considered to be basements (see definition of Basement). This
prohibition includes below grade garages and storage areas.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. For floodplain
management purposes the term "manufactured home" also includes park trailers,
travel trailers and other similar vehicles placed on a site for longer than one
hundred eighty (180) consecutive days. The term "manufactured home" does not
include a "recreational vehicle".
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel of land (or contiguous parcels
of land) subdivided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for sale or
rent.
MARKET VALUE: The market value shall be determined by estimating the cost to
replace the structure in new condition and adjusting that cost figure by the
amount of depreciation which has accrued since the structure was constructed.
The cost of replacement of the structure shall be based on a square foot cost
factor determined by reference to a building cost estimating guide recognized
by the building construction industry. The amount of depreciation shall be
determined by taking into account the age and physical deterioration of the
structure and functional obsolescence as approved by the floodplain
administrator, but shall not include economic or other forms of external
obsolescence. Use of replacement costs or accrued depreciation factors
different from those contained in recognized building cost estimating guides
may be considered only if such factors are included in a report prepared by an
independent professional appraiser and supported by a written explanation of
the differences.
MEAN SEA LEVEL: For purposes of the national flood insurance program, the
national geodetic vertical datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on the town's flood insurance rate map are referenced.
MUDSLIDE: Describes a condition where there is a river, flow or inundation of
liquid mud down a hillside, usually as a result of a dual condition of loss of
brush cover and the subsequent accumulation of water on the ground, preceded by
a period of unusually heavy or sustained rain.
MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW) PRONE AREA: An area with land surfaces and slopes of
unconsolidated material where the history, geology, and climate indicate a
potential for mudflow.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: For floodplain management purposes, structures for which the
"start of construction" commenced on or after the effective date of a
floodplain management regulation adopted by the town, and includes any
subsequent improvements to such structures.
NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by the town.
OBSTRUCTION: Includes, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, wharf, embankment,
levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, channelization, bridge,
conduit, culvert, building, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill, structure,
vegetation or other material in, along, across or projecting into any
watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water, or due to its location, its propensity to snare
or collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being
carried downstream.
100-YEAR FLOOD: A flood which has a one percent (1%) annual probability of
being equaled or exceeded. It is identical to the "base flood", which will be
the term used throughout this chapter.
PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE: As related to part VI, "Variance Procedure", of
this chapter, means that the granting of a variance must not result in anything
which is injurious to safety or health of an entire community or neighborhood,
or any considerable number of persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage
or use, in the customary manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream,
canal, or basin.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle which is:
   A.   Built on a single chassis;
   B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
   C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck; and
   D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
REGULATORY FLOODWAY: The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot
(1').
REMEDY A VIOLATION: To bring the structure or other development into compliance
with state or the town's floodplain management regulations, or, if this is not
possible, to reduce the impacts of its noncompliance. Ways that impacts may be
reduced include protecting the structure or other affected development from
flood damages, implementing the enforcement provisions of this chapter or
otherwise deterring future similar violations, or reducing federal financial
exposure with regard to the structure or other development.
RIVERINE: Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, etc.
SHEET FLOW AREA: See definition of Area Of Shallow Flooding.
SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA): An area having special flood or flood related
erosion hazards, and shown on an FHBM or FIRM as zone A, AO, A1-30, AE, A99 or
AH.
START OF CONSTRUCTION: Includes substantial improvement and other proposed new
development and means the date the building permit was issued, provided the
actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, placement, or other
improvement was within one hundred eighty (180) days of the permit date. The
"actual start" means either the first placement of permanent construction of a
structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation
of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of
excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent
construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and
filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor
does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers or foundations or
the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the
property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as
dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a substantial
improvement, the "actual start of construction" means the first alteration of
any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building, whether or
not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building or a manufactured home, including a gas
or liquid storage tank, that is principally aboveground.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or
exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the
market value of the structure before the "start of construction" of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred "substantial
damage", regardless of the actual repair work performed. This term does not,
however, include either:
   A.   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing
state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications which are solely
necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
   B.   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or a state inventory of historic places.
VARIANCE: A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter which permits
construction in a manner that would otherwise be prohibited by this chapter.
VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the town's floodplain management regulations. A structure or
other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications, or
other evidence of compliance required in this chapter is presumed to be in
violation until such time as that documentation is provided.
WATER SURFACE ELEVATION: The height, in relation to the national geodetic
vertical datum (NGVD) of 1929 (or other datum, where specified), of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
WATERCOURSE: A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, arroyo, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
Watercourse includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur. (Ord. 201, 5-26-2009)
PART III. GENERAL PROVISIONS
8.04.030: LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES:
This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazards within the
jurisdiction of the town of Yucca Valley. (Ord. 201, 5-26-2009)
8.04.031: BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARDS:
The areas of special flood hazards identified by the federal emergency
management agency (FEMA) or the federal insurance administration (FIA) in the
county of San Bernardino, including the incorporated area of Yucca Valley dated
March 18, 1996, with an accompanying flood insurance rate map (FIRM) and all
subsequent amendments and/or revisions, are hereby referenced and declared to
be a part of this chapter. This flood insurance study is on file at the town of
Yucca Valley community development, 58928 Business Center Drive, town of Yucca
Valley. (Ord. 201, 5-26-2009)
8.04.032: COMPLIANCE:
No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted or altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and
other applicable regulations. Violations of the provisions of this chapter by
failure to comply with any of its requirements (including violations of
conditions and safeguards established in connection with conditions) shall
constitute a misdemeanor as defined in this code. Nothing herein shall prevent
the town of Yucca Valley from taking such lawful action as is necessary to
prevent or remedy any violation. (Ord. 201, 5-26-2009)
8.04.033: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another ordinance, easement, covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail. (Ord. 201, 5-
26-2009)
8.04.034: INTERPRETATION:
In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall be:
   A.   Considered as minimum requirements;
   B.   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   C.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under state
statutes. (Ord. 201, 5-26-2009)
8.04.035: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazards, or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the town of Yucca Valley, any
officer, agent or employee thereof, the state of California, the federal
insurance administration, or the federal emergency management agency, for any
flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision lawfully made thereunder. (Ord. 201, 5-26-2009)
PART IV. ADMINISTRATION
8.04.040: ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
A development permit shall be obtained before construction or development
begins within any area of special flood hazards established in section
8.04.031 of this chapter. Application for a development permit shall be made on
forms furnished by the floodplain administrator and may include, but not be
limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location,
dimensions and elevation of the area in question; existing or proposed
structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage facilities; and the location
of the foregoing. Specifically, the following information is required:
   A.   Site plan, including, but not limited to:
      1.   For all proposed structures, spot ground elevations at building
corners and twenty foot (20') or smaller intervals along the foundation
footprint, or one foot (1') contour elevations throughout the building site;
and
      2.   Proposed locations of water supply, sanitary sewer, and utilities;
and
      3.   If available, the base flood elevation from the flood insurance
study and/or flood insurance rate map; and
      4.   If applicable, the location of the regulatory floodway; and
   B.   Foundation design detail, including, but not limited to:
      1.   Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level, of the lowest
floor (including basement) of all structures; and
      2.   For a crawl space foundation, location and total net area of
foundation openings as required in subsection
8.04.050C3 of this chapter and FEMA technical bulletins 1-93 and 7-93; and
      3.   For foundations placed on fill, the location and height of fill, and
compaction requirements (compacted to 95 percent using the standard proctor
test method); and
   C.   Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any
nonresidential structure will be floodproofed, as required in subsection
8.04.050C2 of this chapter and FEMA technical bulletin TB 3-93; and
   D.   All appropriate certifications listed in subsection
 8.04.042D of this chapter; and
   E.   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered or
relocated as a result of proposed development. (Ord. 201, 5-26-2009)
8.04.041: DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
The town planner or their designated individual is hereby appointed to
administer, implement and enforce this chapter by granting or denying
development permits in accordance with its provisions. (Ord. 201, 5-26-2009)
8.04.042: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
The duties and responsibilities of the floodplain administrator shall include,
but not be limited to:
   A.   Permit Review: Review all development permits to determine that:
      1.   The permit requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
      2.   All other required state and federal permits have been obtained;
      3.   The site is reasonably safe from flooding; and
      4.   The proposed development does not adversely affect the carrying
capacity of areas where base flood elevations have been determined but a
floodway has not been designated. For purposes of this chapter, "adversely
affects" means that the cumulative effect of the proposed development when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development will increase the
water surface elevation of the base flood one foot (1') or more.
   B.   Review, Use And Development Of Other Base Flood Data:
      1.   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance
with section
8.04.031 of this chapter, the floodplain administrator shall obtain, review and
reasonably utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a
federal or state agency, or other source, in order to administer the provisions
for flood hazard reductions in sections
8.04.050 through
8.04.057 of this chapter. Any such information shall be submitted to the town
of Yucca Valley for adoption; or
      2.   If no base flood elevation data is available from a federal or state
agency or other source, then a base flood elevation shall be obtained using one
of two (2) methods from the FEMA publication "Managing Floodplain Development
In Approximate Zone A Areas - A Guide For Obtaining And Developing Base (100-
Year) Flood Elevations" dated July 1995, in order to administer the provisions
for flood hazard reductions in part V, "Provisions For Flood Hazard Reduction",
of this chapter:
         a.   Simplified method:
            (1)   100-year or base flood discharge shall be obtained using the
appropriate regression equation found in a U.S. geological survey publication,
or the discharge-drainage area method; and
            (2)   Base flood elevation shall be obtained using the Quick-
2 computer program developed by FEMA; or
         b.   Detailed method:
            (1)   100-year or base flood discharge shall be obtained using the
U.S. army corps of engineers' HEC-HMS computer program; and
            (2)   Base flood elevation shall be obtained using the U.S. army
corps of engineers' HEC-RAS computer program.
   C.   Notification Of Other Agencies:
      1.   Alteration Of Watercourse: Whenever a watercourse is to be altered
or relocated:
         a.   Notify adjacent communities and the California department of
water resources prior to alteration or relocation;
         b.   Submit evidence of such notification to the federal insurance
administration, federal emergency management agency; and
         c.   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse is maintained.
      2.   Changes To Base Flood Elevation: Base flood elevation changes due to
physical alterations:
         a.   Within six (6) months of information becoming available or
project completion, whichever comes first, the floodplain administrator shall
submit or assure that the permit applicant submits technical or scientific data
to FEMA for a letter of map revision (LOMR).
         b.   All LOMRs for flood control projects are approved prior to the
issuance of building permits. Building permits must not be issued based on
conditional letters of map revision (CLOMRs). Approved CLOMRs allow
construction of the proposed flood control project and land preparation as
specified in the "start of construction" definition.
      3.   Changes In Corporate Boundaries: Notify FEMA in writing whenever the
corporate boundaries have been modified by annexation or other means and
include a copy of a map of the community clearly delineating the new corporate
limits.
   D.   Documentation Of Floodplain Development: Obtain and maintain for public
inspection and make available as needed the following:
      1.   Certification required by subsection
 8.04.050C1 and section
8.04.053 of this chapter, floor elevations;
      2.   Certification required by subsection
 8.04.050C2 of this chapter, elevation or floodproofing of nonresidential
structures;
      3.   Certification required by subsection
8.04.050C3 of this chapter, wet floodproofing standard;
      4.   Certification of elevation required by subsection
8.04.052B of this chapter, subdivision standards;
      5.   Certification required by subsection
8.04.055A of this chapter, floodway encroachments;
      6.   Reports required by subsection
8.04.057D of this chapter, mudflow standards.
   E.   Map Determinations: Make interpretations where needed, as to the exact
location of the boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards. Where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field condition,
grade and base flood elevations shall be used to determine the boundaries of
the special flood hazard area. The person contesting the location shall be
given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation as provided in part
VI, "Variance Procedure", of this chapter.
   F.   Remedial Action: Take action to remedy violations of this chapter as
specified in section
8.04.032 of this chapter. (Ord. 201, 5-26-2009)
8.04.043: APPEALS:
The town council of the town of Yucca Valley shall hear and decide appeals when
it is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision, or determination
made by the floodplain administrator in the enforcement or administration of
this chapter. (Ord. 201, 5-26-2009)
PART V. PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
8.04.050: STANDARDS OF CONSTRUCTION:
In all areas of special flood hazards the following standards are required:
   A.   Anchoring:
      1.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the
structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the
effects of buoyancy.
      2.   All manufactured homes shall meet the anchoring standards of section
8.04.053 of this chapter.
   B.   Construction Materials And Methods: All new construction and
substantial improvements shall be constructed:
      1.   With flood resistant materials as specified in FEMA technical
bulletin TB 2-93 and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
      2.   Using methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
      3.   With electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air conditioning
equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/or located so as
to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components during
conditions of flooding.
      4.   As required within zone AH or AO, with adequate drainage paths
around structures on slopes to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed
structures.
   C.   Elevation And Floodproofing: (See definitions section for "basement",
"lowest floor", "new construction", "substantial damage" and "substantial
improvement".)
      1.   Residential construction and substantial improvement of any
structure shall have the lowest floor, including basement:
         a.   In an AO zone, elevated above the highest adjacent grade to a
height equal to or exceeding the depth number specified in feet on the FIRM, or
elevated at least two feet (2') above the highest adjacent grade if no depth
number is specified. In AO zones without velocity the lowest floor shall be
elevated above the highest adjacent grade to a height exceeding the depth
number specified in feet on the FIRM by at least one foot (1'), or elevated at
least two feet (2') above the highest adjacent grade if no depth number is
specified.
         b.   In an A zone, elevated to or above the base flood elevation,
determined by one of the methods in subsection
8.04.042B of this chapter. The lowest floor shall be elevated at least one foot
(1') above the base flood elevation, as determined by the community.
         c.   In all other zones, elevated to or above the base flood
elevation. The lowest floor shall be elevated at least one foot (1') above the
base flood elevation.
Upon the completion of the structure, the elevation of the lowest floor
including basement shall be certified by a registered professional engineer or
surveyor, and verified by the town of Yucca Valley to be properly elevated.
Such certification and verification shall be provided to the floodplain
administrator.
      2.   Nonresidential construction shall either be elevated in conformance
with subsection C1 of this section, or together with attendant utility and
sanitary facilities:
         a.   Be floodproofed below the base flood level recommended in
subsection C1 of this section so that the structure is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water;
         b.   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy; and
         c.   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the standards of this subsection are satisfied. Such certifications shall
be provided to the floodplain administrator.
      3.   All new construction and substantial improvement with fully enclosed
areas below the lowest floor (excluding basement) that are usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage, and which are subject to
flooding, shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces
on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters. Designs
for meeting this requirement shall follow the guidelines in FEMA technical
bulletins TB 1-93 and TB 7-93, must either be certified by a registered
professional engineer or architect and must meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria:
         a.   A minimum of two (2) openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided. The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
(1') above grade. Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or
other coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and
exit of floodwaters; or
         b.   Be certified to comply with a local floodproofing standard
approved by the federal insurance administration, federal emergency management
agency; or
         c.   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect.
      4.   Manufactured homes shall also meet the standards in section
 8.04.053 of this chapter. (Ord. 201, 5-26-2009)
8.04.051: STANDARDS FOR UTILITIES:
   A.   All new and replacement water supply and sanitary sewage systems shall
be designed to minimize or eliminate:
      1.   Infiltration of floodwaters into the systems; and
      2.   Discharge from the systems into floodwaters.
   B.   On site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding. (Ord. 201, 5-26-2009)
8.04.052: STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISIONS:
   A.   All preliminary subdivision proposals shall identify the special flood
hazard area and the elevation of the base flood.
   B.   All final subdivision plans will provide the elevation of proposed
structure(s) and pads. If the site is filled above the base flood elevation,
the final pad elevation shall be certified by a registered professional
engineer or surveyor and provided to the floodplain administrator.
   C.   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to minimize
flood damage.
   D.   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   E.   All subdivisions shall provide adequate drainage to reduce exposure to
flood hazards. (Ord. 201, 5-26-2009)
8.04.053: STANDARDS FOR MANUFACTURED HOMES:
   A.   All manufactured homes that are placed or substantially improved,
within zones A1-30, AH, and AE on the town's flood insurance rate map, on sites
located:
      1.   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision;
      2.   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
      3.   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
      4.   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on a site upon
which a manufactured home has incurred "substantial damage" as the result of a
flood,
shall be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the
manufactured home shall be at least one foot (1') above the base flood
elevation and be securely fastened to an adequately anchored foundation system
to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
   B.   All manufactured homes to be placed or substantially improved on sites
in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision within zones A1-30, AH,
and AE on the community's flood insurance rate map that are not subject to the
provisions of subsection A of this section will be securely fastened to an
adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse, and
lateral movement, and be elevated so that either the:
      1.   Lowest floor of the manufactured home is at least one foot (1')
above the base flood elevation, or
      2.   Manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or other
foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less than
thirty six inches (36") in height above grade. Upon the completion of the
structure, the elevation of the lowest floor including basement shall be
certified by a registered professional engineer or surveyor, and verified by
the community building inspector to be properly elevated. Such certification
and verification shall be provided to the floodplain administrator. (Ord. 201,
5-26-2009)
8.04.054: STANDARDS FOR RECREATIONAL VEHICLES:
   A.   All recreational vehicles placed on sites within zones A1-30, AH, and
AE on the community's flood insurance rate map will either:
      1.   Be on the site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180) consecutive
days, and
      2.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use. A recreational vehicle
is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached
to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and security devices, and
has no permanently attached additions, or
      3.   Meet the permit requirements of part IV of this chapter and the
elevation and anchoring requirements for manufactured homes in subsection
8.04.053A of this chapter. (Ord. 201, 5-26-2009)
8.04.055: FLOODWAYS:
Located within areas of special flood hazards, established in section
 8.04.031 of this chapter, are areas designated as floodways. Since the
floodway is an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters
which carry debris, potential projectiles, and erosion potential, the following
provisions apply:
   A.   Prohibit encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements, and other development unless it is demonstrated by a registered
professional engineer or architect that the cumulative effect of the proposed
development, when combined with all other development, will not increase the
water surface elevation of the base flood more than one foot (1') at any point
within the town of Yucca Valley.
   B.   If subsection A of this section is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements and other proposed new development shall comply with
all other applicable flood hazard reduction of this part. (Ord. 201, 5-26-2009)
8.04.056: MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW) PRONE AREAS:
   A.   The floodplain administrator shall review permits for proposed
construction of other development to determine if it is proposed within a
mudslide area.
   B.   Permits shall be reviewed to determine that the proposed site and
improvement will be reasonably safe from mudslide hazards. Factors to be
considered in making this determination include, but are not limited to:
      1.   The type and quality of soils;
      2.   Evidence of groundwater or surface water problems;
      3.   Depth and quality of any fill;
      4.   Overall slope of the site; and
      5.   Weight that any proposed development will impose on the slope.
   C.   Within areas which may have mudslide hazards, the floodplain
administrator shall require that:
      1.   A site investigation and further review be made by persons qualified
in geology and soils engineering;
      2.   The proposed grading, excavation, new construction, and substantial
improvement be adequately designed and protected against mudslide damages;
      3.   The proposed grading, excavations, new construction, and substantial
improvement not aggravate the existing hazard by creating either on site or off
site disturbances; and
      4.   Drainage, planting, watering, and maintenance not endanger slope
stability. (Ord. 201, 5-26-2009)
8.04.057: FLOOD RELATED EROSION PRONE AREAS:
   A.   The floodplain administrator shall require permits for proposed
construction and other development within all flood related erosion prone areas
as known to the town.
   B.   Permit applications shall be reviewed to determine whether the proposed
site alterations and improvements will be reasonably safe from flood related
erosion and will not cause flood related erosion hazards or otherwise aggravate
the existing hazard.
   C.   If a proposed improvement is found to be in the path of flood related
erosion or would increase the erosion hazard, such improvement shall be
relocated or adequate protective measures shall be taken to avoid aggravating
the existing erosion hazard.
   D.   Within zone E on the flood insurance rate map, a setback is required
for all new development from the ocean, lake, bay, riverfront, other body of
water to create a safety buffer consisting of a natural vegetative or contour
strip. This buffer shall be designated according to the flood related erosion
hazard and erosion rate, in relation to the anticipated "useful life" of
structures, and depending upon the geologic, hydrologic, topographic and
climatic characteristics of the land. The buffer may be used for suitable open
space purposes, such as for agricultural, forestry, outdoor recreation and
wildlife habitat areas, and for other activities using temporary and portable
structures only. (Ord. 201, 5-26-2009)
PART VI. VARIANCE PROCEDURE
8.04.060: NATURE OF VARIANCES:
The variance criteria set forth in this part are based on the general principle
of zoning law that variances pertain to a piece of property and are not
personal in nature. A variance may be granted for a parcel of property with
physical characteristics so unusual that complying with the requirements of
this chapter would create an exceptional hardship to the applicant or the
surrounding property owners. The characteristics must be unique to the property
and not be shared by adjacent parcels. The unique characteristic must pertain
to the land itself, not to the structure, its inhabitants or the property
owners.
It is the duty of the town council of the town of Yucca Valley to help protect
its citizens from flooding. This need is so compelling and the implications of
the cost of insuring a structure built below flood level are so serious that
variances from the flood elevation or from other requirements in this chapter
are quite rare. (The long term goal of preventing and reducing flood loss and
damage can only be met if variances are strictly limited.) Therefore, the
variance guidelines provided in this chapter are more detailed and contain
multiple provisions that must be met before a variance can be properly granted.
The criteria are designed to screen out those situations in which alternatives
other than a variance are more appropriate. (Ord. 201, 5-26-2009)
8.04.061: APPEAL BOARD:
   A.   In passing upon requests for variances, the town council shall consider
all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, standards specified in other
sections of this chapter, and the:
      1.   Danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury of
others;
      2.   Danger of life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      3.   Susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the existing individual owner and
future owners of the property;
      4.   Importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to the
town;
      5.   Necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      6.   Availability of alternative locations for the proposed use which are
not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
      7.   Compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      8.   Relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      9.   Safety of access to the property in time of flood for ordinary and
emergency vehicles;
      10.   Expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the floodwaters expected at the site; and
      11.   Costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water system, and streets and bridges.
   B.   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice over the signature of a community official that:
      1.   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the base
flood level will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to
amounts as high as twenty five dollars ($25.00) for one hundred dollars
($100.00) of insurance coverage, and
      2.   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks to life
and property. It is recommended that a copy of the notice shall be recorded by
the floodplain administrator in the office of the San Bernardino County
recorder and shall be recorded in a manner so that it appears in the chain of
title of the affected parcel of land.
   C.   The floodplain administrator shall maintain the records of all variance
actions, including justification for issuance, and report any variances issued
in its biennial report submitted to the federal insurance administration,
federal emergency management agency. (Ord. 201, 5-26-2009)
8.04.062: CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCES:
   A.   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction, substantial
improvement, and other proposed new development to be erected on a lot of one-
half (1/2) acre or less in size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with
existing structures constructed below the base flood level, providing that the
procedures of parts IV and V of this chapter have been fully considered. As the
lot size increases beyond one-half (1/2) acre, the technical justification
required for issuing the variance increases.
   B.   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of "historic
structures" (as defined in part II of this chapter) upon a determination that
the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure's
continued designation as a historic structure and the variance is the minimum
necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the structure.
   C.   Variances shall not be issued within any mapped regulatory floodway if
any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   D.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the "minimum necessary", considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
"Minimum necessary" means to afford relief with a minimum of deviation from the
requirements of this chapter. For example, in the case of variances to an
elevation requirement, this means the town council need not grant permission
for the applicant to build at grade, or even to whatever elevation the
applicant proposes, but only to that elevation which the town council believes
will both provide relief and preserve the integrity of this chapter.
   E.   Variances shall only be issued upon:
      1.   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
      2.   Determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
      3.   Determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on, or victimization of, the
public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
   F.   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of a
functionally dependent use provided that the provisions of subsections A
through E of this section are satisfied and that the structure or other
development is protected by methods that minimize flood damages during the base
flood and create no additional threats to public safety and do not create a
public nuisance.
   G.   Upon consideration of the factors of subsection
 8.04.061C of this chapter and the purposes of this chapter, the town council
may attach such conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary
to further the purposes of this chapter. (Ord. 201, 5-26-2009)
CHAPTER 8.10
ELECTRIC VEHICLE CHARGING SYSTEMS
SECTION:
8.10.010: Purpose
8.10.020: Definitions
8.10.030: Expedited Permitting Process
8.10.040: Electronic Access To Permit Information
8.10.050: Electric Vehicle Charging Station Installation Requirements
8.10.010: PURPOSE:
The intent of this chapter is to adopt an expedited permitting process that
complies with Assembly Bill 1236 to achieve timely and streamlined permitting
process for electric vehicle charging systems. This chapter will facilitate
convenient charging of electric vehicles and help reduce the Town's reliance on
fossil fuels, and generate additional employment within the Town and State.
This chapter allows the Town to achieve these goals while protecting public
health and safety. (Ord. 270, 9-19-2017)
8.10.020: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall be applicable to the provisions in this
chapter.
ELECTRIC VEHICLE CHARGING STATION: Means any level of electric vehicle supply
equipment station that is designed and built in compliance with article 625 of
the California Electrical Code, as it reads on the effective date of this
chapter, and delivers electricity from a source outside an electric vehicle
into a plug-in electric vehicle.
ELECTRONIC SUBMITTAL: Means the utilization of one or more of the following:
   Electronic mail or email.
   The internet.
   Facsimile.
FEASIBLE METHOD TO SATISFACTORILY MITIGATE OR AVOID THE SPECIFIC, ADVERSE
IMPACT: A method that includes, but is not limited to, any cost-effective
method, condition, or mitigation imposed by the Town on another similarly
situated application in a prior successful application for a permit. The Town
shall use its best efforts to ensure that the selected method, condition, or
mitigation meets the conditions of subparagraphs (A) and (B) of paragraph (1)
of subdivision (d) of section 714 of the Civil Code.
SPECIFIC, ADVERSE IMPACT: A significant, quantifiable, direct, and unavoidable
impact, based on objective, identified, and written public health or safety
standards, policies, or conditions as they existed on the date the application
was deemed complete. (Ord. 270, 9-19-2017)
8.10.030: EXPEDITED PERMITTING PROCESS:
Consistent with Government Code section 65850.7, the building official shall
implement an expedited, streamlined permitting process for electric vehicle
charging stations, and adopt a checklist of all requirements with which
electric vehicle charging stations shall comply with in order to be eligible
for expedited review. The Town's adopted checklist shall be published on the
Town's website.
   A.   Prior to submitting an application for processing, the applicant shall
verify that the installation of an electric vehicle charging station will not
have specific, adverse impact to public health and safety and building
occupants. Verification by the applicant includes but is not limited to:
electrical system capacity and loads; electrical system wiring, bonding and
overcurrent protection; building infrastructure affected by charging station
equipment and associated conduits; areas of charging station equipment and
vehicle parking.
   B.   A permit application that satisfies the information requirements in the
Town's adopted checklist shall be deemed complete and be promptly processed.
Upon confirmation by the building official that the permit application and
supporting documents meets the requirements of the Town's adopted checklist,
and is consistent with all applicable laws and health and safety standards, the
building official shall, consistent with Government Code section 65850.7,
approve the application and issue all necessary permits. Such approval does not
authorize an applicant to energize or utilize the electric vehicle charging
station until approval is granted by the Town. If the building official
determines that the permit application is incomplete, he or she shall issue a
written correction notice to the applicant, detailing all deficiencies in the
application and any additional information required to be eligible for
expedited permit issuance.
   C.   Consistent with Government Code section 65850.7, the building official
shall allow for electronic submittal of permit applications covered by this
chapter and associated supporting documentations. Subject to subsection
8.10.040B of this chapter, the building official shall also accept electronic
signatures on all forms, applications, and other documentation in lieu of a wet
signature by an applicant. (Ord. 270, 9-19-2017)
8.10.040: ELECTRONIC ACCESS TO PERMIT INFORMATION:
   A.   The building official shall make the checklist, permit application and
sample documentation required for electric vehicle charging systems available
on a publicly accessible website.
   B.   Pending software installation, adaptation and security testing, an
applicant may submit the application and related documentation for an electric
vehicle charging system by electronic submittal, as specified on the Town
website. Electronic signatures shall be accepted by the Town on all electronic
submittals in lieu of a wet signature, in conformance with California
Government Code section 16.5 and 2 California Code of Regulations section 22000
et seq. (Ord. 270, 9-19-2017)
8.10.050: ELECTRIC VEHICLE CHARGING STATION INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Electric vehicle charging station equipment shall meet the requirements
of the California Electrical Code, the Society of Automotive Engineers, the
National Electrical Manufacturers Association, and accredited testing
laboratories such as Underwriters Laboratories, and rules of the Public
Utilities Commission or a Municipal electric utility company regarding safety
and reliability.
   B.   Installation of electric vehicle charging stations and associated
wiring, bonding, disconnecting means and overcurrent protective devices shall
meet the requirements of article 625 and all applicable provisions of the
California Electrical Code.
   C.   Installation of electric vehicle charging stations shall be
incorporated into the load calculations of all new or existing electrical
services and shall meet the requirements of the California Electrical Code.
Electric vehicle charging equipment shall be considered a continuous load.
   D.   Anchorage of either floor-mounted or wall-mounted electric vehicle
charging stations shall meet the requirements of the California Building or
Residential Code as applicable per occupancy, and the provisions of the
manufacturer's installation instructions. Mounting of charging stations shall
not adversely affect building elements.
(Ord. 270, 9-19-2017)
CHAPTER 8.15
SMALL RESIDENTIAL ROOFTOP SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS
SECTION:
8.15.010: Purpose
8.15.020: Definitions
8.15.030: Small Residential Rooftop Solar System Requirements
8.15.040: Application Review
8.15.050: Electronic Access To Permit Information And Submittals
8.15.060: Inspections
8.15.070: Fees
8.15.010: PURPOSE:
The purpose and intent of this Chapter is to adopt an expedited, streamlined
solar permitting process that complies with the Solar Rights Act, as amended by
Assembly Bill 2188 (Chapter 521, Statutes 2014) to achieve timely and cost-
effective installations of small residential rooftop solar energy systems. This
Chapter will increase the deployment of residential solar distributed
generation, provide solar customers greater installation ease, improve the Town
and State's ability to reach its clean energy goals, and generate much-needed
jobs in the Town and State. The Chapter allows the Town to achieve these goals
while protecting public health and safety.
(Ord. 318, 10-1-2024)
8.15.020: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall be applicable to the provisions in this
chapter.
 
A FEASIBLE
METHOD TO      A method that includes, but is not limited to, any cost-effective method,
SATISFACTORILY condition, or mitigation imposed by the Town on another similarly situated
MITIGATE OR    application in a prior successful application for a permit. The Town shall use
AVOID THE      its best efforts to ensure that the selected method, condition, or mitigation
SPECIFIC,      meets the conditions of subparagraphs (A) and (B) of paragraph (1) of subdivision
ADVERSE        (d) of Section 714 of the Civil Code.
IMPACT:
               The utilization of one or more of the following.
ELECTRONIC     1.   Email.
SUBMITTAL:     2.   Internet.
               3.   Facsimile.
               Restrictions on a solar energy system are those restrictions that do not
REASONABLE     significantly increase the cost of the system or significantly decrease its
RESTRICTIONS:  efficiency or specified performance, or that allow for an alternative system of
               comparable cost, efficiency, and energy conservation benefits.
RESTRICTIONS   1.   For Water Heater Systems Or Solar Swimming Pool Heating Systems: An amount
THAT DO NOT    exceeding ten percent (10%) of the cost of the system, but in no case more than
SIGNIFICANTLY  one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), or decreasing the efficiency of the solar
INCREASE THE   energy system by an amount exceeding ten percent (10%), as originally specified
COST OF THE    and proposed.
SYSTEM OR      2.   For Photovoltaic Systems: An amount not to exceed one thousand dollars
DECREASE ITS   ($1,000.00) over the system cost as originally specified and proposed, or a
EFFICIENCY OR  decrease in system efficiency of an amount exceeding ten percent (10%) as
SPECIFIED      originally specified and proposed.
PERFORMANCE:
               A solar energy system, which meets all of the following:
               1.   A solar energy system that is no larger than ten (10) kilowatts alternating
               current nameplate rating or thirty (30) kilowatts thermal.
               2.   A solar energy system that conforms to all applicable state fire,
               structural, electrical, and other building codes as adopted or amended by the
               Town; all state, local health and safety standards; and all applicable safety and
               performance standards established by the California Electrical Code, the
SMALL          Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, and accredited testing
RESIDENTIAL    laboratories such as Underwriters Laboratories and, where applicable, rules of
ROOFTOP SOLAR  the Public Utilities Commission regarding safety and reliability.
ENERGY SYSTEM: 3.   A solar energy system that is installed on a single or duplex family
               dwelling.
               4.   A solar panel or module array that does not exceed the maximum legal
               building height as defined by the Town of Yucca Valley Development Code.
               5.   A solar energy system that conforms to all applicable state fire,
               structural, electrical, and other building codes as adopted or amended by the
               Town, all state and Town health and safety standards, and paragraph 3 of
               subdivision (c) of section 714 of the California Civil Code.
               A solar energy system as defined in the California Building Standards Code, Title
               24, including but not limited to:
               1.   Any solar collector or other solar energy device whose primary purpose is to
SOLAR ENERGY   provide for the collection, storage, and distribution of solar energy for space
SYSTEM:        heating, space cooling, electric generation, or water heating.
               2.   Any structural design feature of a building, whose primary purpose is to
               provide for the collection, storage, and distribution of solar energy for
               electricity generation, space heating or cooling or for water heating.
SPECIFIC,      A significant, quantifiable, direct, and unavoidable impact, based on objective,
ADVERSE        identified, and written public health or safety standards, policies, or
IMPACT:        conditions as they existed on the date the application was deemed complete.
 
(Ord. 318, 10-1-2024)
8.15.030: SMALL RESIDENTIAL ROOFTOP SOLAR SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   All small residential rooftop solar energy systems shall comply with
the applicable standards and requirements for solar energy systems as set forth
in the California Building Standards Code, Title 24.
   B.   The small residential rooftop solar system permit process, standard
plan(s), and checklist(s), shall substantially conform to the recommendations
for expedited permitting, including the checklists and standard plans,
contained in the most current version of the California Solar Permitting
Guidebook adopted by the Governor's Office of Planning and Research.
(Ord. 318, 10-1-2024)
8.15.040: APPLICATION REVIEW:
   A.   Upon confirmation that the application is complete, staff shall review
the application to ensure that the small residential rooftop solar energy
system meets local, state, and federal health and safety requirements. Upon
receipt of an incomplete application, the building official shall issue a
written correction notice detailing all deficiencies in the application and any
additional information required to be eligible for expedited permit issuance.
The Building Official may require an applicant to apply for a use permit
pursuant to the Town of Yucca Valley Development Code, if the Building Official
finds, based on substantial evidence, that the small residential rooftop solar
energy system could have a specific, adverse impact upon the public health and
safety.
   B.   Upon confirmation by the building official of the application and
supporting documentation being complete and meeting the requirements of the
checklist, the building official shall administratively approve the application
and issue all required permits or authorizations within a reasonable time
following receipt of a complete application that meets the requirements of the
approved checklist, standard plans and this Chapter. Such approval shall not
include any necessary approval or permission by a local utility provider to
connect the small residential rooftop energy system to the provider's
electricity grid. The applicant is responsible for obtaining such approval or
permission from the local utility provider.
   C.   Staff's approval of an application shall not be based or conditioned on
the approval of an association, as defined in California Civil Code Section
4080.
   D.   All documents required for the submission of a small residential
rooftop solar energy system application shall be made available on the publicly
accessible Town website.
   E.   Prior to submitting an application, the applicant shall:
      1.   Verify to the applicant's reasonable satisfaction through the use of
standard engineering evaluation techniques that the support structure for the
small residential rooftop solar energy system is stable and adequate to
transfer all wind, seismic, and dead and live loads associated with the system
to the building foundation; and
      2.   At the applicant's cost, verify to the applicant's reasonable
satisfaction using standard electrical inspection techniques that the existing
electrical system including existing line, load ground and bonding wiring as
well as main panel and subpanel sizes are adequately sized, based upon the
existing electrical system's current use, to carry all new photovoltaic
electrical loads.
(Ord. 318, 10-1-2024)
8.15.050: ELECTRONIC ACCESS TO PERMIT INFORMATION AND SUBMITTALS:
   A.   The Building Official shall make the checklist and all permitting
documentation required for a small residential rooftop solar energy system
available on a publicly accessible website. The Building Official is authorized
to modify the checklist consistent with state law, local regulations, and with
changes in industry standards and technology.
   B.   Pending software installation, adaptation and security testing, an
applicant may submit the application and related documentation for a small
residential rooftop solar energy system by electronic submittal, as specified
on the Town website. Electronic signatures shall be accepted by the Town on all
electronic submittals in lieu of a wet signature.
(Ord. 318, 10-1-2024)
8.15.060: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   One inspection shall be required and performed by staff for small
residential rooftop solar energy systems eligible for expedited review, which
shall be done in a timely manner and may include a consolidated inspection by
the building official and fire marshal. If a small residential rooftop solar
energy system fails inspection, a subsequent inspection is authorized; however,
the subsequent inspection need not conform to the requirements of this Section.
   B.   The inspection shall be done in a timely manner.
   C.   If a small residential rooftop solar energy system fails inspection, a
subsequent inspection is authorized but need not conform to the requirements of
this Section.
(Ord. 318, 10-1-2024)
8.15.070: FEES:
   A.   All fees prescribed for the permitting of small residential rooftop
solar energy systems must comply with Government Code Sections 65950.55, 66015,
and 66016, and Health and Safety Code Section 17951.
(Ord. 318, 10-1-2024)
CHAPTER 8.50
EARTHQUAKE DAMAGE REPAIRS
SECTION:
8.50.010: Purpose And Intent
8.50.020: Reserved
8.50.030: Masonry Chimneys
8.50.040: Unreinforced Masonry
8.50.010: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
It is the purpose and intent of this Chapter to provide for repair or
replacement of structures on both public and privately- owned property. (Ord.
20, 7-16-1992)
8.50.020: RESERVED:
8.50.030: MASONRY CHIMNEYS:
All new masonry chimneys or reconstructed portions of damaged masonry chimneys
shall be constructed in accordance with chapter 37 of the Uniform Building
Code, 1997 edition, and other applicable uniform codes. Further, all new or
reconstructed chimneys shall be anchored to the structure in accordance with
the current building code. Where the portion of the chimney extending above the
roof line exceeds two (2) times the least dimension of the chimney, the portion
extending above the roof line shall be braced to the roof structure. (Ord. 20,
7-16-1992; amd. 2000 Code)
8.50.040: UNREINFORCED MASONRY:
All damaged building determined to be constructed of unreinforced masonry shall
be repaired and strengthened to comply with the currently adopted edition of
the Uniform Code for Building Conservation, appendix chapter 1.11. (Ord. 20, 7-
16-1992)
CHAPTER 8.70
OUTDOOR LIGHTING
SECTION:
8.70.010: Purpose And Intent
8.70.020: Definitions
8.70.030: Outdoor Lighting Fixtures
8.70.040: Exemptions
8.70.050: Administration And Enforcement
8.70.060: Penalties
8.70.010: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
It is the purpose and intent of this Chapter to establish regulations and
standards which will assist in substantially reducing light pollution which can
be generated from commercial and residential lighting fixtures and devices; to
minimize light pollution which has a detrimental effect on the environment and
the enjoyment of the night sky, to reduce and minimize lighting practices which
cause unnecessary illumination of adjacent properties, and to implement the
Yucca Valley General Plan, Community Design Element, Policy 12, Program 12.A
and Program 12.B. (Ord. 90, 3-19-1998)
8.70.020: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meaning given herein. Words used in the present
tense include the future, words in the plural number include the singular
number, and the words in the singular number include the plural number. Words
not defined shall be given their common and ordinary meaning.
ARCHITECTURAL LIGHTING: Lighting which is either directed towards a residence
with the intent of highlighting an architectural feature or a light fixture
which is architecturally ornamental in nature or purpose.
ATTACHED LIGHTING: A light fixture that is attached to a building.
FIXTURE: The assembly that holds the lamp and may include an assembly housing,
a mounting bracket or pole socket, lamp holder, ballast, a reflector or mirror
and a refractor or lens.
FREESTANDING LIGHTING: A light fixture which is not attached to a building.
FULLY SHIELDED: Any outdoor lighting fixtures shielded or constructed so that
light rays are only emitted by the installed fixtures at angles below a
horizontal plane passing through the lowest point of the light source and so
not to direct light or light trespass onto adjacent property.
LIGHT TRESPASS: Nuisance glare from any lighting onto neighboring property that
interferes with viewing of night sky or eliminates the ability to have darkness
on the adjacent property or shines into neighboring windows and all or any
areas on neighboring properties or structures. Quantitative measurement of
light trespass shall be with a standard yard stick (3 feet x 11/2 inches). The
yard stick shall be placed at the building setback line in the complainant's
yard. The yard stick shall be in contact with the ground and in a vertical
position. The enforcement personnel shall than determine if a shadow is cast by
the light source. The light source, yard stick and shadow must be in alignment.
Measurements shall not be taken when there is a moon in the night sky.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: New lighting fixtures and/or new building(s) with outdoor
lighting.
NIGHT SKY: A clear sky, with visible stars, despite necessary or desired
illumination of private and public property.
PEDESTRIAN LIGHTING: Freestanding lighting fixtures not exceeding a height of
thirty six inches (36") from ground grade level. (Ord. 90, 3-19-1998)
8.70.030: OUTDOOR LIGHTING FIXTURES:
   A.   Single-Family And Multi-Family Residential Land Use Districts: The
following standards are applicable to all structures located within single-
family and multi-family residential land use districts as identified on the
Official Yucca Valley Zoning District Map:
      1.   Existing Structures Located In Single-Family And Multi-Family
Residential Land Use Districts:
         a.   Existing outdoor lighting fixtures installed or constructed on
developed properties located in any residential land use district, as
identified on the Official Yucca Valley Zoning Map, and which properties are
used for residential purposes which are nonconforming, shall be allowed
continued use, except that the lighting shall not be structurally altered so as
to extend its useful life aside from regular maintenance.
         b.   Should it be determined that a nonconforming lighting fixture
results in light trespass, the Town may require the light to either be
shielded, filtered, redirected, replaced with a less intense light source,
removed or a combination thereof to eliminate light trespass.
      2.   New Construction And New Lighting In Single-Family And Multi-Family
Residential Land Use Districts: Any new construction and or new lighting
located in any residential land use district, as identified on the Yucca Valley
Zoning Map and which properties are used for residential purposes, unless
exempt, shall be fully shielded or recessed in such a manner as to preclude
adverse impacts to adjacent property as a result of light trespass, or to any
member of the public who may be traveling on adjacent roadways or right of way.
   B.   Commercial And Industrial Land Use Districts: The following standards
are applicable to all structures located within commercial and industrial land
use districts as identified on the official Yucca Valley Zoning District Map:
      1.   Existing Structures Located In Commercial And Industrial Land Use
Districts:
         a.   Existing outdoor lighting fixtures installed or constructed on
developed properties located in any commercial or industrial land use district,
as identified on the Yucca Valley Zoning Map, and which properties are used for
any commercial or industrial purpose, which are nonconforming shall be allowed
continued use, except that the lighting shall not be structurally altered so as
to extend its useful life aside from regular maintenance.
         b.   Should it be determined that a nonconforming lighting fixture
results in light trespass, the Town may require the light to either be
shielded, filtered, redirected, replaced with a less intense light source,
removed or a combination thereof to eliminate light trespass.
            (1)   In those cases where light trespass exists and has been
determined to be a nuisance, the Community Development Director may grant
additional time for the property owner to remedy the light trespass where a
hardship exists and the following findings can be made. Hardship shall mean
that there is a degree of difficulty in accessibility to the fixture, financial
difficulty or cost of correcting the light trespass, degree of light trespass
or other similar issues.
               (A)   There are special circumstances or conditions applying to
the land, building or outdoor light fixtures for which temporary administrative
relief is sought, which circumstances or conditions are peculiar to such land,
buildings or outdoor light fixtures and do not apply generally to the land,
buildings or outdoor light fixtures in the neighborhood.
               (B)   The granting of the temporary administrative relief will
generally be in harmony with the intent of this Chapter and will not be
injurious to the neighborhood or otherwise detrimental to the public welfare.
            (2)   The Director shall make a determination within five (5)
business days from the date of the submission of the request and notify the
applicant in writing of his decision. Temporary relief shall not exceed a
period of ninety (90) days. The Director's determination may be appealed to the
Planning Commission within ten (10) days of the decision. Should additional
time be required the request shall be forwarded to the Planning Commission for
review and consideration through the temporary use permit process and
requirements.
            (3)   The Director may forward the request to the Planning
Commission based upon the degree of light trespass, costs of correcting the
light trespass or other similar issues.
         c.   Fifty percent (50%) of all nonconforming lighting fixtures within
parking lots or within open lot sale areas shall be turned off within one hour
after closing or between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and sunrise,
whichever occurs first.
            (1)   In those cases where turning off fifty percent (50%) of the
nonconforming lighting fixtures would constitute a hardship, the Director may
grant an administrative exemption based on the following findings:
               (A)   There are special circumstances or conditions applying to
the land, building or outdoor light fixtures for which temporary administrative
relief is sought, which circumstances or conditions are peculiar to such land,
buildings or outdoor light fixtures and do not apply generally to the land,
buildings or outdoor light fixtures in the neighborhood;
               (B)   The strict application of this Chapter would deprive the
applicant reasonable use of the land, buildings or outdoor fixtures;
               (C)   The granting of the temporary administrative relief will
generally be in harmony with the intent of this Chapter and will not be
injurious to the neighborhood or otherwise detrimental to the public welfare.
            (2)   The Director shall make a determination within five (5)
business days from the date of the submission of the request and notify the
applicant in writing of his decision. Temporary relief shall not exceed a
period of ninety (90) days. The Director's determination may be appealed to the
Planning Commission within ten (10) days of the decision. Should additional
time be required the request shall be forwarded to the Planning Commission for
review and consideration through the temporary use permit process and
requirements.
            (3)   The Director may forward the request to the Planning
Commission based upon the degree of light trespass, costs of correcting the
light trespass or other similar issues.
      2.   New Construction And New Lighting In Commercial And Industrial Land
Use Districts: Any new construction located in any commercial or industrial
land use district, as identified on the Yucca Valley Zoning Map, and which
properties are used for commercial and industrial purposes, unless exempt,
shall be fully shielded or recessed in such a manner as to preclude adverse
impacts to adjacent property as a result of light trespass, or to any member of
the public who may be traveling on adjacent roadways or rights of way.
   C.   Recreation Facilities, Public And Private: The following standards are
applicable to all structures:
      1.   There shall be no illumination of private recreational facilities
between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and sunrise.
      2.   There shall be no illumination of public recreational facilities
unless the facilities are being utilized. The illumination must be turned off
no later than eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. or one hour after the termination of
the event and/or use, whichever occurs first.
   D.   Off-Site Signs (Billboards) And Exterior Illuminated On-Site Signs:
Lighting fixtures used to illuminate any new off-site sign and exterior
illuminated on-site signs shall be mounted on the top of the sign structure and
shall comply with the shielding requirements of this Chapter. (Ord. 90, 3-19-
1998)
8.70.040: EXEMPTIONS:
The following outdoor lighting fixtures are exempt from the requirements of
this Chapter:
   A.   Fixtures producing light directly by the combustion of fossil fuels,
such as kerosene lanterns or gas lamps.
   B.   All neon outdoor lighting fixtures.
   C.   All outdoor lighting fixtures on facilities or lands owned, operated or
controlled, by the United States Government, State of California, County of San
Bernardino, Morongo Unified School District, Southern California Edison or any
other public entity or public agency, not including the Town of Yucca Valley.
Voluntary compliance at those facilities is encouraged.
   D.   Emergency lighting operated by a public utility or agency during the
course of repairing or replacing damaged facilities.
   E.   Emergency lighting and fixtures necessary to conduct rescue operations,
provide emergency medical treatment or address any other emergency situations.
   F.   Provided there is no light trespass, or the lighting fixtures are
regulated by motion detector, lighting fixtures within five feet (5') of an
entrance or exit door and/or alcove of a dwelling unit, not exceeding a height
of eight feet (8') and a wattage exceeding 75 watts.
   G.   Internally illuminated signs.
   H.   Holiday lighting fixture displays.
   I.   Architectural lighting whether it is freestanding or attached to a
building which does not exceed an intensity of 40 watts.
   J.   Pedestrian lighting which does not have an intensity greater than 40
watts.
   K.   Vertical lighting for a properly displayed U.S. flag which does not
exceed an intensity of 140 watts. (Ord. 90, 3-19-1998)
8.70.050: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   The Director of the Community Development Department, or his designee,
shall administer and enforce the provisions of this Chapter. Any person who
wishes to appeal any order, decision, or determination made by the Director
shall do so in accordance with this Code.
   B.   All existing exterior lighting fixtures, poles or sources shall comply
with the requirements for permits as specified in the Uniform Building Code
and/or the National Electrical Code.
   C.   From time to time, the Community Development Director may recommend,
and the Town Council may adopt by resolution, as deemed necessary, rules and
regulations to implement the provisions of this Section. Such rules and
regulations shall have force of law and failure to comply shall be considered a
violation of the provisions of this Chapter. The rules and regulations to be
adopted shall be implemented with the following intent:
      1.   Maintain the health and safety of persons and property within the
Town;
      2.   Avoid undue disruption of persons and traffic within the affected
areas of the Town. (Ord. 90, 3-19-1998)
8.70.060: PENALTIES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any of the provisions of this
Chapter.
   A.   Any person who violates the provisions of this Chapter shall receive a
correction notice for the first violation for each given year. The notice shall
specify the nature of the offense, the date of occurrence and required
correction as established by this Chapter.
   B.   Any person subsequently violating or causing or permitting the
violation of any of the provisions of this Chapter within one given year shall
be guilty of an infraction which shall be punishable in accordance with
Chapter 1.02 of this Code. (Ord. 90, 3-19-1998)
CHAPTER 8.90
UNDERGROUND UTILITY DISTRICTS
SECTION:
8.90.010: Definitions
8.90.020: Hearings; Notification
8.90.030: Report
8.90.040: Designation
8.90.050: Unlawful Acts
8.90.060: Exceptions; Emergency Or Unusual Circumstances
8.90.070: Exceptions; Nonemergency
8.90.080: Notice Requirements
8.90.090: Utility Company Responsibility
8.90.100: Property Owner Responsibility
8.90.110: Authority To Discontinue Overhead Service, Perform Installation, And
Lien
8.90.120: Town Responsibility
8.90.130: Time Extension
8.90.140: Violation; Penalty
8.90.010: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings ascribed to them unless otherwise noted:
COMMISSION: The public utilities commission of the state of California.
PERSON: Means and includes individuals, firms, corporations, partnerships, and
their agents and employees.
POLES, OVERHEAD WIRES AND ASSOCIATED OVERHEAD STRUCTURES: Poles, towers,
supports, wires, conductors, guys, stubs, platforms, cross arms, braces,
transformers, insulators, cutouts, switches, communication circuits,
appliances, attachments and appurtenances located aboveground within a district
and used or useful in supplying electric, communication or similar or
associated service.
UNDERGROUND UTILITY DISTRICT OR DISTRICT: That area in the town within which
poles, overhead wires and associated overhead structures are prohibited as such
area is described in a resolution adopted pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter.
UTILITY: Means and includes all persons or entities supplying electric,
communication such as telephone and cable television, or similar or associated
service by means of electrical materials or devices. (Ord. 221, 2-1-2011)
8.90.020: HEARINGS; NOTIFICATION:
The town council may from time to time call public hearings to ascertain
whether it is in the general public interest to remove the poles, overhead
wires and associated overhead structures within designated areas of the town
and to perform the underground installation of wires and facilities for
supplying electric, communication, or similar or associated service. The town
clerk shall notify all concerned utilities and property owners within the
proposed district as shown on the last equalized assessment roll by regular
mail of the time and place of such hearings at least fifteen (15) days prior to
the date thereof. Failure to give such notice by mail, or of the persons
addressed to receive same, shall not affect the validity of such ordinance nor
the authority of the town to proceed under this chapter. Each hearing shall be
open to the public and may be continued from time to time. At each such hearing
all property owners within the proposed district, and all members of the
public, shall be given an opportunity to be heard. (Ord. 221, 2-1-2011)
8.90.030: REPORT:
Prior to holding such public hearing, the town manager shall consult all
affected utilities and shall prepare a report for submission at such hearing
containing, among other information, the extent of such utilities'
participation and estimates of the total costs to the town and affected
property owners. Such report shall also contain an estimate of the time
required to complete such underground installation and removal of overhead
facilities. (Ord. 221, 2-1-2011)
8.90.040: DESIGNATION:
If, after a public hearing, the town council finds that it is in the general
public interest to remove the poles, overhead wires, and associated overhead
structures within the designated area and to perform such underground
installation within the area, the council shall, by resolution, declare such
designated area an underground utility district and order such removal and
underground installation. The decision of the town council shall be final and
conclusive. Such resolution shall include a description of the area comprising
such district and shall fix the time within which such removal and underground
installation shall be accomplished and within which affected property owners
must be ready to receive underground service. A reasonable time shall be
allowed for such removal and underground installation, having due regard for
the availability of labor, materials and equipment necessary for such removal
and for the installation of such underground facilities as may be occasioned
thereby.
If the undergrounding is to be completed pursuant to rule 20A of the California
public utilities commission, the town council shall make any findings required
by rule 20A.
If necessary, the creation of such district shall comply with all applicable
provisions of article XIIID of the California constitution (proposition 218).
(Ord. 221, 2-1-2011)
8.90.050: UNLAWFUL ACTS:
Whenever the council creates an underground utility district and orders the
removal of poles, overhead wires and associated overhead structures therein as
provided in this chapter, it is unlawful for any person or utility to erect,
construct, place, keep, maintain, continue, employ or operate poles, overhead
wires and associated overhead structures in the district after the date when
such overhead facilities are required to be removed by such resolution, except
as such overhead facilities may be required to furnish temporary service to an
owner or occupant of property prior to the performance by such owner or
occupant of the underground work necessary for such owner or occupant to
continue to receive utility service as provided in this chapter, and for such
reasonable time required to remove such facilities after such work has been
performed, and except as otherwise provided in this chapter. (Ord. 221, 2-1-
2011)
8.90.060: EXCEPTIONS; EMERGENCY OR UNUSUAL CIRCUMSTANCES:
   A.   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, the town council
may grant special exceptions on a permanent or temporary basis to the
provisions of this chapter on such terms as the town council may deem
appropriate in cases of emergency or unusual circumstances to any person to
erect, construct, install, maintain, use or operate poles and overhead lines
and associated overhead structures within any underground utility district
provided that prior thereto the town council shall have made a finding that
granting of such special exception does not violate the general purposes of
this chapter, will not be detrimental to the public interest, welfare, safety,
peace or health, and that such action will not constitute a grant of special
privilege inconsistent with the limitations upon other properties in the
underground utility district.
   B.   Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, the town manager in
cases of emergency only, may grant permission for overhead facilities to be
installed for such period of time as will permit the town council, at its next
regular meeting, to consider the granting of a special exception under the
terms of this section. (Ord. 221, 2-1-2011)
8.90.070: EXCEPTIONS; NONEMERGENCY:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the following types of
facilities:
   A.   Poles used exclusively for police and fire alarm boxes, traffic control
facilities, street lighting, or any similar municipal equipment installed under
the supervision and the satisfaction of the town engineer and approved by the
town manager. Service to those facilities shall be underground;
   B.   Overhead wires (exclusive of supporting structures) crossing any
portion of a district within which overhead wires have been prohibited, or
connecting to buildings on the perimeter of a district, when such wires
originate in an area from which poles, overhead wires and associated overhead
structures are not prohibited;
   C.   Poles, overhead wires and associated overhead structures used for the
transmission of electric energy at nominal voltages in excess of thirty four
thousand five hundred (34,500) volts;
   D.   Overhead wires attached to the exterior surface of a building by means
of a bracket or other fixture and extending from one location on the building
to another location on the same building or to an adjacent building without
crossing any public street or alley;
   E.   Antennas, associated equipment and supporting structures, used by a
utility for furnishing communication services;
   F.   Equipment appurtenant to underground facilities, such as surface
mounted transformers, pedestal mounted terminal boxes and meter cabinets, and
concealed ducts;
   G.   Temporary poles, overhead wires and associated overhead structures used
or to be used in conjunction with construction projects. (Ord. 221, 2-1-2011)
8.90.080: NOTICE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Within thirty (30) days after the effective date of a resolution
adopted pursuant to this chapter, the town clerk shall notify all affected
utilities and all persons owning real property within the district created by
such resolution of the adoption thereof. The town clerk shall further notify
such affected property owners of the necessity that, if they or any person
occupying such property desire to continue to receive electric, communication,
or similar or associated service, they or such occupant shall, within the
period of time specified in the resolution, provide all necessary facility
changes on their premises so as to receive such service from the lines of the
supplying utility or utilities at a new location, subject to the applicable
rules, regulations and tariffs of the respective utility or utilities on file
with the commission or as authorized by the council.
   B.   Notification by the town clerk shall be made by mailing a copy of the
resolution adopted pursuant to this chapter together with a copy of the
ordinance codified herein to affected property owners as such are shown on the
last equalized assessment roll and to the affected utilities. Failure to give
such notice by mail or of the persons addressed to receive same shall not
affect the validity of such ordinance nor the authority of the town to proceed
under this chapter. (Ord. 221, 2-1-2011)
8.90.090: UTILITY COMPANY RESPONSIBILITY:
If underground construction is necessary to provide utility service within a
district created by any resolution adopted pursuant to this chapter, the
supplying utility shall furnish that portion of the conduits, conductors and
associated equipment required to be furnished by it under its applicable rules,
regulations and tariffs on file with the commission and the electric rules and
regulations of the town. (Ord. 221, 2-1-2011)
8.90.100: PROPERTY OWNER RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.   All utilities and every person owning property within a district shall
comply with the requirements specified in the notice under section
8.90.080 of this chapter.
   B.   Every person owning property within a district shall be responsible for
paying such person's proportionate share of the cost of the underground
facilities constructed in the public right of way or easements to serve that
property within the district, to the extent such costs are not covered by a
utility or the town. All such costs shall be in conformance with applicable
rules, regulations and tariffs of the respective utilities on file with the
commission and the electric service rules and regulations of the town, and if
necessary all assessments shall comply with the provisions of article XIIID of
the California constitution (proposition 218).
   C.   Every person owning, operating, leasing, occupying or renting a
building or structure within a district shall, at such person's own expense,
construct and provide that portion of the service connection on such person's
property between the facilities referred to in this chapter and the termination
facility on or within such building or structure being served, all in
accordance with the applicable rules, regulations and tariffs of the respective
utilities concerned and applicable rules and regulations of the town. (Ord.
221, 2-1-2011)
8.90.110: AUTHORITY TO DISCONTINUE OVERHEAD SERVICE, PERFORM INSTALLATION, AND
LIEN:
   A.   If the aforesaid property owner responsibilities are not accomplished
within the time specified in the resolution, the town shall give written notice
by mail or personal service to the owner of record and to the person in
possession of the affected property, to perform the required property owner
responsibilities within thirty (30) days after receipt of notice. Mailed notice
shall be deemed to have been received by the addressee within forty eight (48)
hours after mailing. Where notice is mailed to either the owner or occupant, a
notice not less than eight by ten inches (8 x 10") in size shall also be posted
in a conspicuous place on the premises within forty eight (48) hours after the
mailing thereof.
   B.   The notice shall specify with particularity what work is required to be
done and shall state that if such work is not completed by the affected
property owner within thirty (30) days after receipt of notice, the town will
perform the required work and the costs and expenses therewith will be assessed
against the affected property and become a lien thereon.
   C.   The notice shall include the statement that thirty (30) days after
posting of the notice all utility companies are authorized to discontinue
electric, communication, community antenna television, or similar or associated
service from poles, overhead wires, and associated overhead structures.
   D.   Thirty (30) days after such posting, all utility companies are hereby
authorized to discontinue electric, communication, community antenna television
or similar or associated service from poles, overhead wires, and associated
overhead structures.
   E.   If, upon the expiration of the thirty (30) day period, the required
work is not performed, the town shall cause the work to be performed. If,
however, the premises are unoccupied and no utility services are being
furnished thereto, the town may authorize the disconnection and removal of any
and all overhead service wires and associated facilities to such property. Upon
completion of the work a written report shall be provided for the town council
setting forth the properties disconnected and from which overhead service was
removed, and the properties where required underground facilities work has been
performed by the town, together with a legal description of the property
against which the cost is to be assessed, and the costs to be assessed. The
council shall fix a time and place for hearing protests against the assessment
of the cost of such work, which hearing shall not be less than ten (10) days
after the filing of such report.
   F.   The town shall notify the owner and the person in possession of the
premises of the time and place of such protest hearing. Notice shall be given
in the same manner as provided in subsection A of this section and shall set
forth the amount of the proposed assessment.
   G.   At the hearing, the council shall hear and consider the report and any
protests and may affirm, modify or reject the assessment.
   H.   Unless the payment of the assessment is authorized to be payable in
installments, the amount of each such assessment shall become due and payable
to the town upon confirmation by the town council. If any assessment is not
paid within thirty (30) days, interest shall be added to the unpaid balance at
the rate of eight percent (8%) per year commencing on the thirty first day
after such assessment becomes due.
   I.   1. The council may authorize, by motion, that the payment of any
assessment of more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) may, at the assessee's
option, be made in not to exceed ten (10) annual installments, provided,
however, that installment payments shall not be permitted where the assessment
is one hundred dollars ($100.00) or less.
      2.   The first installment shall be paid on or before the thirtieth day
after confirmation by the town council. Subsequent installments and interest
shall be paid on or before the successive anniversary dates.
      3.   The unpaid balance of the assessment shall bear interest at the rate
of eight percent (8%) per year.
      4.   If any installment is not paid on or before the anniversary date,
the entire unpaid balance of such assessment shall become due and payable
immediately.
   J.   Any assessment or installment not paid within six (6) months from the
date it is due and payable is delinquent. A delinquent penalty of six percent
(6%) of the unpaid balance, including principal and interest, shall be added
thereto.
   K.   If any assessment is not paid in full within thirty (30) days after
confirmation of the assessment, a lien shall be impressed against the property
so assessed for the total unpaid balance of such assessment, together with
interest and penalties thereon, if any, effective as of the time of recordation
of a notice of lien, which lien shall continue until the assessment, together
with interest and penalties thereon, has been paid in full, or until such lien
has been discharged of record.
   L.   The town clerk is authorized to record in the office of the county
recorder of San Bernardino County a certificate of lien in the following form:
   NOTICE OF LIEN
The Town Manager did on         , 20  , cause certain work to be performed, and
the Council of the Town of Yucca Valley did on         , 20  , by Resolution
No.      in the files of the Town Clerk, assess the cost of such construction
upon the real property in the Town of Yucca Valley hereinafter described, and
the same has not been paid nor any part thereof, and the said Town of Yucca
Valley does hereby claim a lien on said real property in the total sum of
$             less the sum of $          which has been paid, leaving the
principal sum of $             now due, owing and unpaid, and the same shall be
a lien upon said real property until the said sum, with interest at the rate of
8 percent per annum, from              , 20  , and any penalties which may
become due, has been paid in full and discharged of record.
The real property hereinbefore mentioned and upon which lien is claimed is that
certain parcel of land in the Town of Yucca Valley, County of San Bernardino,
State of California, described as follows:
(DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY)
Dated:
   Town Clerk of the Town of Yucca Valley
(Ord. 221, 2-1-2011)
8.90.120: TOWN RESPONSIBILITY:
The town shall remove all town owned equipment from all poles required to be
removed under this chapter in ample time to enable the owner or user of such
poles to remove the same within the time specified in the resolution enacted
pursuant to this chapter. (Ord. 221, 2-1-2011)
8.90.130: TIME EXTENSION:
In the event that any act required by this chapter or by a resolution adopted
pursuant to this chapter cannot be performed within the time provided on
account of shortage of materials, war, restraint by public authorities,
strikes, labor disturbances, civil disobedience or any other circumstances
beyond the control of the actor, then the time within which such act will be
accomplished shall be extended for a period equivalent to the time of such
limitation. (Ord. 221, 2-1-2011)
8.90.140: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
It is unlawful for any person to violate any provision or to fail to comply
with any of the requirements of this chapter. Any person violating any
provision of this chapter or failing to comply with any of its requirements
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be
punished by a fine not exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00) or by
imprisonment not exceeding six (6) months, or by both such fine and
imprisonment. Each such person shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for
each day during any portion of which any violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter is committed, continued or permitted by such person, and shall be
punishable therefor as provided for in this chapter. (Ord. 221, 2-1-2011)
TITLE 9
DEVELOPMENT CODE
Development Code current through:
Ord. 323, passed 11-19-2024
PREFACE
This Development Code of the Town of Yucca Valley, as supplemented, contains
ordinances up to and including ordinance 323, passed November 19, 2024.
Ordinances of the Town adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of
this Development Code to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent
therewith. Consult the Town office in order to ascertain whether any particular
provision of the code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
CHAPTER 9.01
PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY
SECTION:
9.01.010: Title
9.01.020: Purpose And Intent Of Development Code
9.01.030: Authority
9.01.040: Responsibility For Administration
9.01.050: Applicability
9.01.010: TITLE:
This title shall be known as the TOWN OF YUCCA VALLEY DEVELOPMENT CODE and
referred to as the "development code". (Ord. 250, 11-18-2014)
9.01.020: PURPOSE AND INTENT OF DEVELOPMENT CODE:
The purpose of this development code is intended to carry out the policies of
the town of Yucca Valley general plan by classifying and regulating the uses of
land and structures within the town. It is also the intent of this development
code to promote the orderly and beneficial development of the town; promote and
protect the public health, safety, peace, comfort, and general welfare; and
protect the character, social, and economic vitality of neighborhoods. (Ord.
250, 11-18-2014)
9.01.030: AUTHORITY:
This development code is enacted based on the authority vested in the town of
Yucca Valley by the state of California, including, but not limited to:
   A.   Local ordinances and regulations (California Constitution, article XI,
section 7).
   B.   Planning and zoning law (Government Code section 65000 et seq.).
   C.   Airport approaches zoning law (Government Code section 50485 et seq.).
   D.   Alquist-Priolo earthquake fault zoning act (Public Resources Code
section 2621 et seq.).
   E.   California environmental quality act (Public Resources Code section
21000 et seq.).
   F.   Desert native plants act (Food And Agricultural Code section 80001 et
seq.).
   G.   Land conservation act of 1965 (Williamson act) (Government Code section
51200 et seq.).
   H.   Mobilehome parks act (Health And Safety Code section 18200 et seq.).
   I.   Subdivision map act (Government Code section 66410 et seq.).
   J.   Surface mining and reclamation act of 1975 (Public Resources Code
section 2710 et seq.).
   K.   Z'berg-Nejedly forest practice act of 1973 (Public Resources Code
section 4511 et seq.). (Ord. 250, 11-18-2014)
9.01.040: RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION:
This development code shall be administered by the town council, the planning
commission, the director of community development, the community development
department, and any other departments, groups, or individuals identified in
this development code in compliance with title 2, "Administration And
Personnel", of this code. (Ord. 250, 11-18-2014)
9.01.050: APPLICABILITY:
This development code applies to all construction, modifications of existing
development, land uses, subdivision of property, and development within the
town of Yucca Valley. (Ord. 250, 11-18-2014)
CHAPTER 9.02
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
9.02.010: Rules Of Interpretation
9.02.020: Relationship To General Plan
9.02.030: Severability Of Any Portion Of The Development Code
9.02.040: Legal Defense Fee Responsibility
9.02.010: RULES OF INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Authority: The director has the authority to interpret provisions of
this development code. Whenever the director determines that the meaning or
applicability of a development code requirement is subject to interpretation,
the director shall issue a written interpretation. The director may also refer
any issue of interpretation to the commission for a determination. A decision
of the director may be appealed to the commission and a decision of the
commission may be appealed to the council in compliance with
 chapter 9.81, "Appeals", of this title.
   B.   Terminology: When used in this title, the following rules apply to all
provisions of this development code:
      1.   Language: When used in this development code, the words "shall",
"must", "will", "is to", and "are to" are always mandatory. "Should" is not
mandatory but is strongly recommended; and "may" is permissive.
      2.   Tense: The present tense includes the past and future tense, and the
future tense includes the present.
      3.   Number: The singular number includes the plural number, and the
plural the singular, unless the natural construction of the words indicates
otherwise.
      4.   Calculations:
         a.   Number Of Lots: The fractional/decimal results of calculations of
the number of parcels allowed through subdivision based on a minimum lot area
requirement shall be rounded down to the next lowest whole number.
         b.   Residential Density: When the number of dwelling units allowed on
a site is calculated based on the minimum site area per dwelling unit, any
fraction of a unit shall be rounded down to the next lowest whole number.
         c.   Other Calculations: For calculations other than residential
density, the fractional/decimal results of calculations shall be rounded to the
next highest whole number unless otherwise specified.
      5.   Conjunctions: "And" indicates that all connected items or provisions
shall apply. "Or" indicates that the connected items or provisions may apply
singly or in any combination. "Either ... or" indicates that the connected
items and provisions shall apply singly but not in combination. "Includes" and
"including" shall mean "including, but not limited to".
      6.   Local Reference: "Town" as used herein means the town of Yucca
Valley and all public officials, bodies, and agencies referenced herein are
those of the town unless otherwise stated.
      7.   Definitions: As defined in article 7, "Definitions", of this title
and/or as determined/interpreted by the director.
   C.   Number Of Days: Whenever the number of days is specified in this
development code, or in any permit, condition of approval or notice issued or
given as provided in this development code, the number of days shall be
construed as calendar days. When the last of the specified number of days falls
on a weekend or town recognized holiday, time limits shall extend to the end of
the next working day.
   D.   Conflicting Requirements: Any conflicts between different requirements
of this development code, or between this development code and other
regulations, shall be resolved as follows:
      1.   Development Code Provisions: In the event of any conflict between
the provisions of this development code, the most restrictive requirement shall
control, except in case of any conflict between the land use zoning district
regulations of article 2, "Zoning Districts And Development Standards", of this
title and the provisions of article 3, "Development Standards", of this title,
the provisions of article 3 of this title shall control.
      2.   Development Agreements Or Specific Plans: In the event of any
conflict between the requirements of this development code and standards
adopted as part of any development agreement or specific plan, the requirements
of the development agreement or specific plan shall control.
      3.   Town Code Provisions: In the event of any conflict between
requirements of this development code and other regulations of the town, the
most restrictive requirement shall control.
      4.   Mitigation Measures: In the event of any conflict between the
requirements of this development code and mitigation measures adopted as part
of a certified environmental impact report or approved negative declaration,
the most restrictive shall control.
   E.   Minimum Requirements: When interpreting and applying the regulations of
this development code, all provisions shall be considered to be minimum
requirements, unless specifically stated otherwise.
   F.   Interpretation Of Boundaries: See
chapter 9.05, "Zoning Districts And Zoning Map", of this title.
   G.   Illustrations: The figures, diagrams, and other graphics used
throughout this development code are for illustration purposes only and to the
extent any are in conflict with the written provisions, the written provisions
shall govern. (Ord. 250, 11-18-2014)
9.02.020: RELATIONSHIP TO GENERAL PLAN:
This development code is the primary tool used by the town to carry out the
goals, objectives, and policies of the general plan. It is intended that all
provisions of this development code be consistent with the general plan and
that any development, land use, or subdivision approved in compliance with
these regulations will also be consistent with these documents. (Ord. 250, 11-
18-2014)
9.02.030: SEVERABILITY OF ANY PORTION OF THE DEVELOPMENT CODE:
If any portion of this development code is held to be invalid,
unconstitutional, or unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, such
determination shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this
title. The council hereby declares that this title and each article, section,
subsection, paragraph, subparagraph, sentence, clause, phrase and portion
thereof is adopted without regard to the fact that one or more portions of this
title may be declared invalid, unconstitutional, or unenforceable. (Ord. 250,
11-18-2014)
9.02.040: LEGAL DEFENSE FEE RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.   Applicant's Agreement To Indemnify And Hold Harmless: The applicant
shall agree to defend, indemnify and hold harmless the town of Yucca Valley,
its agents, officers and employees, at his sole expense, against any action,
claim or proceedings brought against the town or its agents, officers or
employees, to attack, set aside, void, or annul this approval or because of the
issuance of such approval, or in the alternative, to relinquish such approval,
in compliance with this development code. The applicant shall reimburse the
town, its agents, officers, or employees for any court costs, and attorney fees
which the town, its agents, officers or employees may be required by a court to
pay as a result of such action. The town may, at its sole discretion,
participate at its own expense in the defense of any such action but such
participation shall not relieve applicant of his obligations under this
condition. The town shall promptly notify the applicant of any claim, action or
proceedings arising from the town's approval of this project, and the town
shall cooperate in the defense.
   B.   Town's Duty To Notify Applicant And Cooperate In Defense: Any condition
of approval imposed in compliance with this development code shall include a
requirement that the town acts reasonably to promptly notify the applicant of
any claim, action, or proceeding and that the town cooperates fully in the
defense. (Ord. 250, 11-18-2014)
CHAPTER 9.03
NONCONFORMING LOTS, STRUCTURES, AND USES
SECTION:
9.03.010: Purpose And Intent
9.03.020: Applicability
9.03.030: Determination, Extension, And Abatement Procedures
9.03.040: Nonconforming Lots
9.03.050: Nonconforming Structures
9.03.060: Nonconforming Uses
9.03.070: Restoration Of A Destroyed Nonconforming Residential Structure Or Use
9.03.010: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   Regulation Of Legal Conformities: This chapter establishes uniform
provisions for the regulation of legal nonconforming land uses, structures, and
parcels. Within the land use zoning districts established by this Development
Code, there exist land uses, structures, and parcels that were lawfully in
existence before the adoption, or amendment of this Development Code, but which
would be prohibited, regulated, or restricted differently under the terms of
this Development Code, as amended. This chapter provides for their eventual
elimination, but allows them to exist under the limited conditions identified
in this chapter.
   B.   Intent: It is the intent of this Development Code to discourage the
long-term continuance of these nonconformities in order to promote the public
health, safety, and general welfare and to bring the uses and structures into
conformity with the goals and policies of the General Plan and any applicable
Specific Plan. (Ord. 261, 11-15-2016)
9.03.020: APPLICABILITY:
The provisions in this chapter apply to existing legal nonconforming
structures, uses, and parcels. (Ord. 261, 11-15-2016)
9.03.030: DETERMINATION, EXTENSION, AND ABATEMENT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Purpose: This section sets forth provisions for the abatement of lots,
structures, and uses deemed to be nonconforming and subject to abatement
pursuant to the provisions of this article 1.
   B.   Authority: The Director shall be the designated review authority for
determining that a lot, structure, or use is nonconforming, and the Commission
shall be the designated review authority for action on the abatement procedures
and extensions of the nonconforming lots, structures, or uses.
   C.   Notice And Hearing: Once the Director has determined that a lot,
structure, or use is nonconforming, the Director shall provide required notice
for hearing and action by the Commission. The purpose of the hearing is to
determine whether the nonconformity should be abated, given a specific term
prior to abatement, or granted a time extension. Notice and hearing shall be
performed and conducted pursuant to
chapter 9.85, "Public Notices And Hearings", of this title.
   D.   Decision And Findings: The Commission shall base its decision as to the
length of the permitted amortization period on any competent evidence
presented, included but not limited to the depreciation schedule attached to
the owner's latest Federal income tax return. Findings shall be made as to
whether or not the balancing of the public interest and the request by the
owner for continuance, alteration, or expansion of the nonconformity of the
subject property requires a deviation from the development standards. Findings
shall be made in writing and provided to the property owner within ten (10)
days after the decision is rendered.
   E.   Appeal: Actions taken by the Commission may be appealed to the Council
in accordance with provisions of
chapter 9.81, "Appeals", of this title.
   F.   Extension Of Time: The review authority, at its discretion, may grant
an extension of time for the abatement of a nonconformity where it finds that
an unreasonable hardship would otherwise be imposed on the property or business
owner.
   G.   Revocation Of Nonconforming Use Or Structure: The Town may revoke the
right to continue a nonconforming use or structure. Revocation procedures,
including notice and hearing, shall be in accordance with provisions of
chapter 9.84, "Permit Revocations", of this title.
   H.   No Reversion To Nonconformance: When any nonconformity is eliminated or
brought into conformance with the current regulations of this Development Code,
the nonconforming rights and privileges with respect to that nonconformity are
terminated and shall not be restored. (Ord. 261, 11-15-2016)
9.03.040: NONCONFORMING LOTS:
   A.   Continuation Of Legal Nonconforming Lots: Any lawfully created lot
which becomes nonconforming with regard to lot area, street frontage, lot
width, lot depth, or accessibility may continue indefinitely with such
nonconformity and may be developed and used as if it were a conforming lot.
   B.   Modification Of Legal Nonconforming Lots: Legal nonconforming lots may
not be modified in any manner that increases the degree of nonconformity. Where
feasible, parcel modifications (through lot merger or lot line adjustment) are
encouraged to eliminate or minimize the degree of nonconformity. (Ord. 261, 11-
15-2016)
9.03.050: NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES:
   A.   Continuation Of Structure: Any legally established nonconforming
structure that does not conform to the provisions of this Development Code with
regard to maximum permitted height, minimum required setback, lot coverage,
and/or maximum permitted encroachment into required yard areas may be continued
indefinitely.
   B.   Exceptions: The following are the exceptions to the indefinite
continuation of a legal nonconforming structure:
      1.   Residential Structures: Any increase in the number of residential
units for buildings designed and occupied for residential use shall be
prohibited.
      2.   Nonresidential Structures: Any nonresidential building, structure,
or facility designed or intended only for uses which are nonconforming shall be
removed, or the design and use thereof shall be made conforming in all respects
within twenty five (25) years from the date of construction or the effective
date of creation of the nonconformity, whichever is later.
      3.   Utilities: Any new or replacement utility/mechanical facilities,
equipment, or construction shall conform to the maximum extent feasible, as
determined by the Director.
      4.   Encroachments In Commercial Zones: Within the commercial zones, any
nonconforming encroachment into required yards may be required to be removed or
reduced upon review by the review authority as follows:
         a.   When an expansion in floor area which is greater than fifty
percent (50%) of the existing floor area is proposed for any structure
maintaining a nonconforming encroachment, or
         b.   When an expansion in floor area is proposed anywhere within an
integrated development which is greater than fifty percent (50%) of the total
floor area of all structures within the integrated development.
      5.   Trash Facilities, Outdoor Storage, And Display: Trash areas or
facilities, outdoor storage areas, and outdoor display areas shall be made
fully conforming at the time of any expansion or intensification of use on the
site.
   C.   Modification Or Expansion Of Legal Nonconforming Structure:
      1.   A legal nonconforming structure shall not be modified in a manner
that expands, extends, or enlarges the use in any manner beyond its existing
scope upon the date the nonconformity was created, except as follows:
         a.   The modifications are, in and of themselves, in conformance with
the provisions of this Development Code.
         b.   The modifications are limited to minor alterations, improvements,
or repairs that do not increase the degree of nonconformity present and do not
constitute or tend to produce an expansion or intensification of a
nonconforming use.
         c.   The modifications are required by other laws.
         d.   The modifications are incidental to the public acquisition of a
portion of a site, no greater degree of nonconformity will be created other
than that caused as a result of the public acquisition, and the changed
development will conform to current regulations to the maximum extent feasible.
      2.   No change made to any development or use shall be construed as
automatically permitting an extension of any time limit for the termination of
a nonconformity.
   D.   Destruction Of Legal Nonconforming Structure:
      1.   A nonconforming structure(s) involuntarily damaged or partially
destroyed by fire, act of nature, or act of the public enemy may be repaired or
rebuilt and reoccupied only as follows:
         a.   If the cost of repairing or replacing the damaged portion of the
structure(s) does not exceed seventy five percent (75%) of its reasonable
value, the structure may be restored, provided the following conditions are
met:
            (1)   The reconstruction meets current Building Code requirements.
            (2)   Reconstruction begins within twelve (12) months of the date
of damage, unless otherwise allowed by the Director, and is diligently pursued
to completion.
   E.   Discontinuance Of Legal Nonconforming Structure: If any legal
nonconforming structure is abandoned or the use thereof discontinued for a
period of one hundred eighty (180) consecutive days or more, all future
development of the land shall be in conformity with the provisions of this
Development Code. Maintenance of a valid business license shall of itself not
be considered a continuation of the use.
   F.   Off-Site Relocation: When a structure is relocated to another lot, it
shall be made conforming in all respects with the provisions of this
Development Code and all other applicable laws and regulations. (Ord. 261, 11-
15-2016)
9.03.060: NONCONFORMING USES:
Except as otherwise listed below, a legal nonconforming use may continue
indefinitely.
   A.   Nonconforming Commercial And Industrial Uses: Nonconforming commercial
and industrial uses shall be terminated or made conforming as to use within ten
(10) years from the date on which the Town rendered the use nonconforming.
   B.   Other Nonconforming Nonresidential Use: Other nonconforming non-
residential uses shall be terminated or made conforming as to use within ten
(10) years from the date on which the Town rendered the use nonconforming.
   C.   Nonconforming Mobilehome Park: A mobilehome park that is nonconforming
as to use shall be terminated within twenty (20) years from the date on which
the Town rendered the use nonconforming.
   D.   Nonconforming Animal Keeping: Any nonconforming animal keeping, whether
a primary use or an accessory use, shall be terminated or made conforming
within three (3) years from the date on which the Town rendered the use
nonconforming.
   E.   Nonconforming Use Eligible For Conditional Use Permit Or Other
Approval: Any nonconforming use that is eligible to be considered for a
conditional use permit, land use compliance review, or other discretionary
approval under this Development Code shall be considered to be a nonconforming
use unless and until such permit or other such approval is granted.
   F.   Modifications And Extensions To Legal Nonconforming Uses:
      1.   A legal nonconforming use shall not be modified in any manner that
expands, extends, or enlarges the use beyond its existing scope upon the date
the nonconformity was created, except as specified below:
         a.   The changes are, in and of themselves, in conformance with the
provisions of this Development Code.
         b.   The changes are limited to minor alterations, improvements, or
repairs that do not increase the degree of nonconformity present and do not
constitute or tend to produce an expansion or intensification of a
nonconforming use. A minor alteration shall not increase the area of the
nonconforming structure by more than one hundred twenty (120) square feet
cumulative.
         c.   The changes are required by other laws.
         d.   The changes are incidental to the public acquisition of a portion
of a site, no greater degree of nonconformity will be created other than that
caused as a result of the public acquisition, and the changed development will
conform to current regulations to the maximum extent feasible.
      2.   No change made to any development or use shall be construed as
automatically permitting an extension of any time limit for the termination of
a nonconformity.
      3.   Notwithstanding the provisions regarding conditional use permit or
variance, the Director may allow the construction of an additional modification
to a legally existing structure within a current yard setback area, as
established by an applicable residential land use district, when such legally
existing building is within the yard setback area, and provided such additional
modification does not exceed the projection of the existing structure into such
current yard setback area and does not come closer than three feet (3') to any
property line.
      4.   The requirements for a conditional use permit shall not apply to
nonconforming residential uses, where such uses are being expanded or modified
by no more than twenty five percent (25%) of the floor space or ground area
existing at the time such use became a nonconforming use.
   G.   Discontinuance Of Legal Nonconforming Use:
      1.   If any legal nonconforming use is discontinued for a period of one
hundred eighty (180) consecutive days or more, subsequent use of the land shall
be in conformity with the provisions of this Development Code. Maintenance of a
valid business license shall of itself not be considered a continuation of the
use.
      2.   This section shall not apply to any use for which a different period
of discontinuance or abandonment is specified under other provisions of this
Development Code. (Ord. 261, 11-15-2016)
9.03.070: RESTORATION OF A DESTROYED NONCONFORMING RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURE OR
USE:
   A.   A nonconforming single residential use located in an industrial or any
commercial zoning district that has been destroyed by more than seventy five
percent (75%) may be restored subject to the granting of a land use compliance
review and affirmative determination of all of the following findings:
      1.   The restoration of the nonconforming single residential use will not
adversely affect or be detrimental to the health, safety, and general welfare
of the public or property or improvements within the area.
      2.   The restoration of the nonconforming single family residential use
is substantially compatible with existing and proposed uses in the general
area, including factors relating to the nature of its location, operation,
building design, and site design.
      3.   The restoration of the nonconforming single family residential use
will protect a valuable property investment. (Ord. 261, 11-15-2016)
CHAPTER 9.05
ZONING DISTRICTS AND ZONING MAP
SECTION:
9.05.010: Reserved
9.05.020: Purpose
9.05.030: Establishment Of Base Zoning And Overlay Districts
9.05.040: Official Zoning Map
9.05.050: Rights Of Way And Vacated Boundary Lines
9.05.060: Determination Of Boundaries
9.05.010: RESERVED:
(Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
9.05.020: PURPOSE:
This chapter identifies and establishes base zoning districts and the overlay
zones. (Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
9.05.030: ESTABLISHMENT OF BASE ZONING AND OVERLAY DISTRICTS:
   A.   General: The town is divided into zoning districts to allow for the
orderly development of the town and to implement the general plan. Table 2-1 of
this section identifies all zones. All zones shall be listed and appropriately
designated on the official zoning map.
   B.   Base District: Every parcel shall have a base zone that establishes the
primary type and intensity of land use permitted, along with development
regulations for that particular type and intensity of land use. The base zoning
districts are described in chapters
9.07 through
9.13 of this article 2.
   C.   Overlay District: An overlay zoning district supplements the base zone
for the purpose of establishing special use or development regulations for a
particular area in addition to the provisions of the underlying base zone. In
the event of conflict between the base zone regulations and the overlay zone
regulations, the provisions of the overlay zone shall apply. The overlay zoning
districts are described in chapters
9.15 through
9.22 of this article 2.
   D.   Table 2-1:
   TABLE 2-1
   BASE ZONING DISTRICTS IMPLEMENTING THE GENERAL PLAN
Zoning             Zone Description Corresponding General Plan
Map Symbol                          Land Use Designation
Residential zones:
Zoning                 Zone Description             Corresponding General Plan
Map Symbol                                          Land Use Designation
Residential zones:
 R-HR                 Residential-Hillside reserve Hillside residential (R-HR)
                       district - 1 unit/20 acres
 RL-10                Rural living district - 1    Rural living (RL-10)
                       unit/10 acres
 RL-5                 Rural living district - 1    Rural living (RL-5)
                       unit/5 acres
 RL-2.5               Rural living district - 1    Rural residential (RR-2.5)
                       unit/2.5 acres
 RL-1                 Rural living district - 1    Rural residential (RR-1)
                       unit/acre
 RS-2                 Single-family residential    Rural residential (RR-0.5)
                       district - 2 units/acre
 RS-3.5               Single-family residential    Low density residential
                       district - 3.5 units/acre    (LDR)
 RS-5                 Single-family residential    Low density residential
                       district - 5 units/acre      (LDR)
 RM-4                 Multi-family residential - 4 Low density residential
                       units/acre                   (LDR)
 RM-8                 Multi-family residential - 8 Medium density residential
                       units/acre                   (MDR)
 RM-10                Multi-family residential -   Medium high density
                       10 units/acre                residential (MHDR)
 RM-14                Multi-family residential -   Medium high density
                       14 units/acre                residential (MHDR)
Commercial zones:                                   
 C-N                  Neighborhood commercial      Commercial (C)
 C-G                  General commercial           Commercial (C)
 C-C                  Community commercial         Commercial (C)
 C-O                  Office commercial            Commercial (C)
 C-MU                 Mixed use commercial         Mixed use (MU)
Industrial zone:                                    
 I                    Industrial                   Industrial (I)
Special purpose zones:                              
 P/QP                 Public/quasi-public          Public/quasi-public (P/QP)
 OS                   Open space                   Open space (O-S)
 SP                   Specific plan                Specific plan overlay (SP)
 
E.   Table 2-2:
   TABLE 2-2
   OVERLAY ZONING DISTRICTS
Zoning     Overlay District Description
Map Symbol
Zoning        Overlay District Description
Map Symbol
AR1, AR2, AR3 Airport safety overlay districts 1, 2, and 3
FS            Fire safety overlay district
FP1, FP2, FP3 Floodplain safety overlay districts 1, 2, and 3
GH            Geologic and seismic hazards overlay district
HS            Hillside overlay district
LA            Large animal overlay district
SP            Specific plan overlay district
 
(Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
9.05.040: OFFICIAL ZONING MAP:
The official zoning map, together with the legend, symbols, notations,
references, district boundaries and other information thereon, shall be a part
of the development code and shall be adopted concurrently with the development
code. Changes, additions, and amendments to the zoning map shall be adopted by
ordinance and shall be processed, considered, and adopted in compliance with
 chapter 9.62, "Amendments To Development Code And Zone Changes", of this
title. The official zoning map shall be kept on file with the town clerk and
shall constitute the original record. (Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
9.05.050: RIGHTS OF WAY AND VACATED BOUNDARY LINES:
Where a public street or alley is officially vacated or abandoned, the property
encompassed by said street or alley shall be included within the zone or zones
of the adjoining properties. If the adjoining properties are in different
zones, the boundary lines shall be the centerline of the former street or alley
and the extension of the side yard lines of the abutting properties. In the
event such street, alley, or right of way was a boundary between two (2) or
more different zones, the new zone or zone boundary shall be the property line
that is created by such vacation. (Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
9.05.060: DETERMINATION OF BOUNDARIES:
   A.   If there is uncertainty about the location of a zone boundary shown on
the official zoning map, the director shall determine the location of the
boundary in the following manner, except as provided in section
9.05.050, "Rights Of Way And Vacated Boundary Lines", of this chapter.
      1.   Where a zone or area boundary approximately follows a lot line,
street or alley line, the lot line, street centerline, or alley centerline
shall be construed as the zone boundary;
      2.   Where a zone or area boundary divides a lot and the boundary line
location is not specified by distances indicated on the subject map, the
location of the boundary shall be determined by using the scale appearing on
the map;
      3.   Where a public street or alley is officially vacated or abandoned,
the regulations applicable to the property to which it reverts shall apply to
the vacated or abandoned street or alley.
   B.   If the director determines that the above rules do not resolve
uncertainty about a boundary location, the commission shall determine the
location of the boundary. (Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
CHAPTER 9.06
LAND USE STANDARDS AND PERMIT REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
9.06.010: Purpose
9.06.020: General Requirements Of Development And New Land Uses
9.06.030: Permitted Land Uses And Planning Permit Requirements
9.06.010: PURPOSE:
This chapter describes the town's requirements for the approval of proposed
development and new land uses. The planning permit procedures established by
this development code for specific types of development are in chapters 9.63
through 9.77 of this title. (Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
9.06.020: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS OF DEVELOPMENT AND NEW LAND USES:
Each land use and/or structure shall be established, constructed,
reconstructed, altered, moved or replaced in compliance with the following
requirements:
   A.   Permitted Use: The land use shall be allowed by this development code
in the zoning district applied to the site. The basis for determining whether a
use is allowed is described in section
9.06.030, "Permitted Land Uses And Planning Permit Requirements", of this
chapter.
   B.   Permit And Approval Requirements: Any planning permit or other approval
required by section
9.06.030, "Permitted Land Uses And Planning Permit Requirements", of this
chapter, shall be obtained before the issuance of any required grading,
building, or other construction permit, and before the proposed use is
constructed, otherwise established or put into operation, unless the proposed
use is exempt.
   C.   Development Standards, Conditions Of Approval: Each land use and
structure shall comply with the development standards of this article 2,
article 3, "Development Standards", of this title, and any applicable
conditions imposed by a previously granted planning permit.
   D.   Legal Parcel: The site of a proposed development or new land use shall
be a parcel that was legally created in compliance with the subdivision map act
and article 6, "Subdivisions", of this title. (Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
9.06.030: PERMITTED LAND USES AND PLANNING PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permitted Land Uses: The uses of land allowed by this development code
in each zoning district are listed in
chapters 9.07 through
9.12 of this article 2, together with the type of planning permit required for
each use. Each listed land use is defined in article 7, "Definitions", of this
title.
      1.   Establishment Of A Permitted Use:
         a.   Any one or more land uses identified by the land use tables in
chapters 9.07 through
9.12 of this article 2 as being allowed within a specific zoning district may
be established on any parcel within that zoning district, subject to the
planning permit requirements of subsection B of this section, and compliance
with all applicable requirements of this development code.
         b.   Where a single parcel is proposed for development with two (2) or
more permitted land uses, the overall project shall be subject to the highest
permit level required by the planning permit requirements of subsection B of
this section for any individual use.
      2.   Use Not Listed:
         a.   A use not listed in any land use table in chapters
chapters 9.07 through
9.12 of this article 2, and determined by the director to not be included in
article 7, "Definitions", of this title under the definition of a listed land
use, is not allowed unless exempt.
      3.   Similar And Compatible Use May Be Allowed: The director may
determine that a proposed land use not listed in any land use table or article
7, "Definitions", of this title is allowed as follows:
         a.   Required Findings: The director may determine that a proposed use
is similar to, and compatible with a listed use and may be allowed, only after
first making all of the following findings with the determination:
            (1)   The characteristics of, and activities associated with the
use are similar to one or more of the listed uses, and will not involve a
greater intensity than the uses listed in the district;
            (2)   The use will be consistent with the purposes of the
applicable zoning district;
            (3)   The use will be consistent with the general plan, and any
applicable specific plan;
            (4)   The use will be compatible with the other uses allowed in the
zoning district.
         b.   Findings In Writing: A determination that a use qualifies as a
similar and compatible use, and the findings supporting the determination,
shall be in writing.
         c.   Applicable Standards And Permit Requirements: When the director
determines that a proposed, but unlisted, use is similar and compatible to a
listed use, the proposed use will be treated in the same manner as the listed
use in determining where it is allowed, what permits are required, and what
other standards and requirements of this development code apply.
         d.   Referral For Determination: The director may refer the question
of whether a proposed use qualifies as a similar and compatible use directly to
the commission for a determination.
         e.   Appeal: A determination of similar and compatible use may be
appealed in compliance with
chapter 9.81, "Appeals", of this title.
   B.   Permit Requirements:
Chapters 9.07 through
9.13 of this article 2 provide tables showing allowed land use types that are:
      1.   "P" Uses: Permitted use, subject to compliance with all applicable
provisions of this development code and the California building code. These are
shown as "P" uses in the tables.
      2.   "CUP" Uses: Allowed projects subject to approval of a conditional
use permit (
chapter 9.63 of this title), and shown as "CUP" uses in the tables. Conditional
use permits are approved by commission and are subject to the California
environmental quality act (CEQA). Review of such uses is necessary and specific
conditions of approval may be necessary to ensure that the uses are developed,
operated, and located properly with respect to their effects on surrounding
properties and so that any and all potentially adverse impacts are mitigated,
and to ensure the general health, safety and welfare of the community through
implementation of the general plan through this chapter.
      3.   "SUP" Uses: Allowed subject to the approval of a special use permit
(
chapter 9.69 of this title), and shown as "SUP" uses in the tables. Special use
permits are subject to the approval of the director, with public notice. Review
of such uses is necessary and specific conditions of approval may be necessary
to ensure that the uses are developed, operated, and located properly with
respect to their effects on surrounding properties and so that any and all
potentially adverse impacts are mitigated, and to ensure the general health,
safety and welfare of the community through implementation of the general plan
through this chapter.
      4.   "HOP" Uses: Allowed subject to the approval of a home occupation
permit (
chapter 9.50 of this title), and shown as "HOP" uses in the tables. Home
occupation permits are subject to the approval of the director and/or
commission, with and without public notice. Review of such uses is necessary
and specific conditions of approval may be necessary to ensure that the uses
are developed, operated, and located properly with respect to their effects on
surrounding properties and so that any and all potentially adverse impacts are
mitigated, and to ensure the general health, safety and welfare of the
community through implementation of the general plan through this chapter.
      5.   "SPR" Uses: New construction and certain expansions for uses
identified as "SPR" in the tables are subject to a site plan and design review
(
chapter 9.68 of this title) and are approved by commission and are subject to
the California environmental quality act (CEQA). The site plan review procedure
is intended to protect and enhance the visual appeal, environment, economic
stability and property values of the town's residential, commercial, and
industrial areas through the application of the provisions of this code and the
general plan.
      6.   "TSEP" Uses: Allowed subject to the approval of a temporary special
event permit (
chapter 9.71 of this title), and shown as "TSEP" uses in the tables. Temporary
special event permits are subject to the approval of the director, without
public notice. Temporary special event permits provide for the review of events
specified in this development code, in order to minimize any adverse effects on
surrounding properties and infrastructure or on the public health, safety and
welfare.
      7.   "TUP" Uses: Allowed subject to the provisions in
chapter 9.39, "Temporary Uses And Structures", of this title and approval of a
temporary use permit (
chapter 9.72 of this title), and shown as "TUP" uses in the tables. Temporary
use permits are subject to the approval of the director, without public notice.
Temporary use permits provide for the review of temporary accessory uses and
for temporary uses related to current and ongoing construction activities that
are not otherwise permitted or regulated in this development code in order to
minimize any adverse effects on surrounding properties and infrastructure or on
the public health, safety and welfare.
      8.   "PD" Uses: Allowed subject to the approval of a planned development
permit (
chapter 9.67 of this title) and shown as "PD" uses in the tables. PD permits
are reviewed by commission and approved by council, and are subject to the
California environmental quality act (CEQA). Planned development permits are
intended to facilitate development of properties where greater flexibility in
design is desired to provide a more efficient use of land than would be
possible through strict application and land use district regulations. This
process is also intended to serve as an alternate site planning process that
encourages more creative and imaginative planning of mixed use multiphased
residential, commercial or industrial development within the framework of a
single cohesive development plan.
      9.   "SPL" Uses: Allowed subject to the approval of a special license
permit for uses identified as "SPL" in the tables. Special license permits are
subject to the approval of the director, without public notice. Review of such
uses is necessary and specific conditions of approval may be necessary to
ensure that the uses are developed, operated, and located properly with respect
to their effects on surrounding properties and so that any and all potentially
adverse impacts are mitigated, and to ensure the general health, safety and
welfare of the community through implementation of the general plan through
this chapter.
      10.   "NP" Uses: Not allowed in particular zoning districts, and shown as
"NP" in tables.
   C.   Additional Permit Requirements: A land use authorized through the
approval of a site plan and design review permit, land use compliance review,
conditional use permit, planned development permit, or other permit required by
this article may also require a building permit and/or other permit required by
this code. (Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
CHAPTER 9.07
RESIDENTIAL AND HILLSIDE RESERVE DISTRICTS
SECTION:
9.07.010: Purpose
9.07.020: General Provisions
9.07.030: Residential Zoning Districts
9.07.040: Permitted Uses And Permit Requirements
9.07.050: Development Standards
9.07.060: Accessory Buildings And Uses
9.07.070: Antennas
9.07.080: Drainage, On Site Retention, And Dust Control
9.07.090: Fences, Walls, And Hedges
9.07.100: Manufactured Home And Single-Family Residential Construction
Standards
9.07.110: Outdoor Lighting
9.07.120: Projections And Encroachments Into Required Setback Areas And Above
Height Limits
9.07.130: Native Landscape Documentation Package
9.07.010: PURPOSE:
These zones are established to implement the Residential-Hillside Reserve,
Rural Living, Residential Single-Family, and Residential Multi-Family land use
designations of the general plan. The various designations are intended to
provide a range of residential densities from Residential-Hillside Reserve
lands constrained by topography to higher density Multi-Family designations.
The standards, uses and densities allowed in these zones are intended to
maintain a character consistent and compatible with residential neighborhoods.
(Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
9.07.020: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Residential-Hillside Reserve: The specific purpose of the Residential-
Hillside Reserve Zoning District regulations and standards are to:
      1.   Provide for limited single-family residential development within
hillside areas and similarly constrained areas and provide the greatest
potential for open space preservation and managed animal keeping.
      2.   Provide adequate light, air, privacy, and open space for each
dwelling unit and protect residents from harmful effects of excessive noise,
population density, traffic congestion, and other adverse environmental
impacts.
      3.   Provide sites for public and semipublic land uses needed to
complement residential development or requiring a residential environment.
      4.   Ensure the provision of public services and facilities needed to
accommodate planned population densities.
   B.   Residential: The specific purpose for the Residential Zoning District
regulations and standards are to:
      1.   Provide adequate light, air, privacy, and open space for each
dwelling unit and protect residents from harmful effects of excessive noise,
population density, traffic congestion, and other adverse environmental
impacts.
      2.   Provide sites for public and semipublic land uses needed to
complement residential development or requiring a residential environment.
      3.   Ensure the provision of public services and facilities needed to
accommodate planned population densities. (Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
9.07.030: RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICTS:
   A.   Residential-Hillside Reserve (R-HR): The R-HR Zoning District is
established to provide areas for the development of hillside residential uses
and similar and compatible uses and includes the following designations:
      1.   Residential-Hillside Reserve District (R-HR): One dwelling unit/
twenty (20) acres. (Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
No more than one dwelling unit is allowed on each lot, except as otherwise
provided in section
9.08.100, "Accessory Dwelling Units", of this article 2. (Ord. 253, 12-16-2014;
amd. Ord. 281, 11-6-2018)
   B.   Rural Living Districts (RL): The RL Zoning Districts are established to
provide areas for the development and preservation of residential uses,
incidental agricultural uses, and similar and compatible uses. There are the
following RL Residential Zones that provide a variety of living environments
based upon the required minimum gross lot size.
      1.   Rural Living District (RL-10): One dwelling unit/ten (10) acres.
      2.   Rural Living District (RL-5): One dwelling unit/five (5) acres.
      3.   Rural Living District (RL-2.5): One dwelling unit/2.5 acres.
      4.   Rural Living District (RL-1): One dwelling unit/acre. (Ord. 253, 12-
16-2014)
No more than one dwelling unit is allowed on each lot, except as otherwise
provided in section
9.08.100, "Accessory Dwelling Units", of this article 2.
   C.   Single-Family Residential Districts (RS): The RS Districts are
established to provide areas for the development and preservation of
residential subdivisions consisting of detached residences and accessory uses
compatible with the residential use of the zone and includes the following
designations. There are the following Single-Family (RS) Residential Zones that
provide a variety of living environments based upon the required minimum net
lot size. No more than one dwelling unit is allowed on each lot, except as
otherwise provided in section
9.08.100, "Accessory Dwelling Units", of this article 2. Required minimum lot
sizes for each of the following zones are as follows: (Ord. 253, 12-16-2014;
amd. Ord. 281, 11-6-2018)
      1.   Single-Family Residential District (RS-2): Two (2) dwelling units/
acre.
      2.   Single-Family Residential District (RS-3.5): 3.5 dwelling units/
acre.
      3.   Single-Family Residential District (RS-5): Five (5) dwelling units/
acre.
   D.   Multi-Family Residential District (RM): The RM Zone is established to
accommodate higher density, multi-story residential development, with a focus
on providing an intensity and function at locations within close proximity to
recreation and community facilities and commercial services and includes the
following designations:
      1.   Multi-Family Residential District (RM-4): Up to four (4) dwelling
units/acre.
      2.   Multi-Family Residential District (RM-8): Up to eight (8) dwelling
units/acre.
      3.   Multi-Family Residential District (RM-10): Up to ten (10) dwelling
units/acre.
      4.   Multi-Family Residential District (RM-14): Up to fourteen (14)
dwelling units/acre. (Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
9.07.040: PERMITTED USES AND PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
Table 2-3 of this section identifies the uses of land allowed by this
Development Code in each Residential Zoning District established by
 chapter 9.05, "Zoning Districts And Zoning Map", of this article 2.
All uses listed in the following table are subject to the applicable standards
of this Development Code and the permit requirements referenced in the "Notes
And Other Regulations" column and in subsection
9.06.030B, "Permit Requirements", of this article 2.
Pursuant to subsection
 9.06.030A3, "Similar And Compatible Use May Be Allowed", of this article 2,
the Director may determine that a proposed use is permitted, provided that the
Director makes the required findings that the proposed use is similar,
compatible and consistent with the uses described in the table, the purposes,
and the General Plan. (Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
   TABLE 2-3
   PERMITTED LAND USES AND PERMIT REQUIREMENTS FOR RESIDENTIAL
   AND HILLSIDE RESERVE ZONING DISTRICTS
Zoning districts:
R-HR: Residential-Hillside RL: Rural Living           
Reserve
RS: Residential, Single-   RM: Residential, Multi-    
Family                     Family
Permit required:
CUP: Conditional use       P: Permitted              SUP: Special use permit
permit
HOP: Home occupation       PD: Planned development   TSEP: Temporary special
permit                     permit                    event permit
                           SPR: Site plan and design TSTVRP: Temporary short-
NP: Not allowed            review                    term vacation rental
                                                     permit
                                                    TUP: Temporary use permit
 
Type Of Use Permit Required By Zoning District Notes And Other Regulations
            R-HR RL RS RM
                        Permit Required By Zoning District Notes And Other
Type Of Use             R-HR   RL     RS     RM            Regulations

Residential:                                                
  Accessory dwelling                                       Pursuant to section
 unit                  P      P      P      P             9.08.100 of this
                                                           article 2
                                                           Permitted only in
                                                           conjunction with an
                                                           approved dwelling
                                                           unit. Includes uses
                                                           that are accessory
 Accessory structures  P      P      P      P             or incidental to the
  and uses                                                 primary use of the
                                                           same property.
                                                           Pursuant to section
                                                           9.07.060, "Accessory
                                                           Buildings And Uses",
                                                           of this chapter
 Garage and yard sales P      P      P      P              
                                                           Permitted with a
                                                           home occupation
 Home occupation       HOP    HOP    HOP    HOP           permit, pursuant to
                                                            chapter 9.50, "Home
                                                           Occupation Permits",
                                                           of this title
  Manufactured home/                                       Pursuant to section
 mobilehome unit       P      P      P      P             9.08.060 of this
                                                           article 2
                                                           Pursuant to section
                                                           9.08.060,
  Mobilehome and                                           "Manufactured
 recreational vehicle  CUP    CUP    CUP    CUP           Housing, Mobilehomes
  parks                                                    And Recreational
                                                           Vehicle Parks", of
                                                           this article 2
 Multi-family                                              
  dwellings:
                                                           Pursuant to Multi-
                                                           Family Residential
    1 - 3 units     NP     NP     NP     P             standards, section
                                                           9.08.070 of this
                                                           article 2
                                                           Pursuant to Multi-
                                                           Family Residential
    4 or more units NP     NP     NP     SPR           standards, section
                                                           9.08.070 of this
                                                           article 2
  Planned residential                                      Pursuant to section
 development           PD     PD     PD     PD            9.08.080 of this
                                                           article 2
                                                           Pursuant to
  Single-family                                            Residential District
 dwelling unit         P      P      P      P             standards, section
                                                           9.07.050 of this
                                                           chapter
                                                           6 or fewer
  Farmworker/employee                                      employees, pursuant
 housing               P      P      P      P             to Health and
                                                           Safety, Section
                                                           17021.5
 Temporary short-term  TSTVRP TSTVRP TSTVRP TSTVRP        Pursuant to
  vacation rental                                          Chapter 5.40
Care uses:                                                  
 Child daycare:                                            
                                                           8 or fewer children,
                                                           pursuant to
    Small family    P      P      P      P             residential district
                                                           standards, section
                                                           9.08.040 of this
                                                           article 2
                                                           9 to 14 children,
                                                           pursuant to
    Large family    SUP    SUP    SUP    SUP           residential district
                                                           standards, section
                                                           9.08.040 of this
                                                           article 2
                                                           15 or more children,
 Child daycare center  CUP    CUP    CUP    CUP           pursuant to section
                                                           9.14.020 of this
                                                           article 2
 Social care facility:                                     
                                                           Includes, but is not
                                                           limited to, elderly
                                                           care and sober
                                                           living facilities.
    6 or fewer      P      P      P      P             Pursuant to
                                                           residential district
                                                           standards, section
                                                           9.08.090 of this
                                                           article 2
                                                           Includes, but is not
                                                           limited to, elderly
                                                           care and sober
                                                           living facilities.
    7 or more       SPR    SPR    SPR    SPR           Pursuant to section
                                                           9.08.090,
                                                           "Residential/Social
                                                           Care Facilities", of
                                                           this article 2
Agriculture and animal                                      
related:
  Agriculture (for                                         Including, but not
  commercial use), not                                     limited to, row,
 including animal      CUP    CUP    CUP    NP            field, tree, and
  husbandry or                                             nursery crop
  stockyards                                               cultivation
                                                           7 or more employees
                                                           and consisting of no
                                                           more than 36 beds in
                                                           group quarters or 12
                                                           units or spaces
                                                           designed for use by
  Farmworker/employee                                      a single family or
 housing               CUP    CUP    CUP    NP            household, pursuant
                                                           to Health and Safety
                                                           Code Section 17021.6
                                                           and projects
                                                           eligible for
                                                           ministerial review
                                                           pursuant to section
                                                           17021.8.
  Animal keeping,                                          Animal raising over
  breeding/raising of                                      densities allowed
  densities greater                                        require a special
 than those specified  SUP    SUP    SUP    SUP           use permit, pursuant
  by section                                               to section
  9.08.020 of this                                          9.08.020 of this
  article 2                                                article 2
  Animal keeping of                                        Pursuant to section
  densities allowed by                                      9.08.020 of this
 section               P      P      P      P             article 2, animal
  9.08.020 of this                                         keeping
  article 2
                                                           Pursuant to section
 Commercial or private CUP    CUP    NP     NP            9.08.020 of this
  kennels                                                  article 2, minimum 1
                                                           acre parcel size
 Exotic animals:                                           
                                                           Pursuant to
  Up to 2             SUP    SUP    SUP    SUP           chapter 9.49 of this
                                                           title
                                                           Pursuant to
  3 - 4               CUP    CUP    CUP    NP            chapter 9.49 of this
                                                           title
  Horticulture (for
  private use),                                            Permitted as a use
 including growing     P      P      P      P             that is incidental
  fruit, flowers,                                          to the primary use
  ornamental plants,
  and vegetables
Other uses:                                                 
  Bed and breakfast/                                       Pursuant to section
 lodging               SUP    SUP    SUP    SUP           9.08.030 of this
                                                           article 2
                                                           Pursuant to
 Cemeteries            CUP    CUP    NP     NP             chapter 9.45 of
                                                           this title
  Marijuana
  dispensaries,
  marijuana                                                Pursuant to
 cultivation,          NP     NP     NP     NP            chapter 9.53 of this
  marijuana deliveries,                                    title
  additional prohibited
  marijuana
  Temporary special                                        Pursuant to
 events                TSEP   TSEP   TSEP   TSEP          chapter 9.38 of this
                                                           title
                                                           Pursuant to
 Temporary uses        TUP    TUP    TUP    TUP            chapter 9.39 of
                                                           this title
Recreation, education,
and public assembly                                         
uses (institutional
uses):
  Arboretums, botanical                                    Pursuant to section
 gardens, historic and CUP    CUP    CUP    CUP           9.08.050 of this
  monument sites, zoos                                     article 2
 Archery and gun                                           
  ranges:
  Indoor              NP     NP     NP     NP             
  Outdoor             NP     NP     NP     NP             
                                                           Pursuant to section
 Campgrounds           CUP    CUP    NP     NP            9.08.050 of this
                                                           article 2
  Conference centers/                                      Pursuant to section
 group camps           CUP    CUP    NP     NP            9.08.050 of this
                                                           article 2
 Governmental facility CUP    CUP    CUP    CUP            
  Hospitals and                                            Pursuant to section
 convalescent homes    CUP    CUP    CUP    CUP            9.08.050 of this
                                                           article 2
  Museum, art gallery,                                     Pursuant to section
 library, and          CUP    CUP    CUP    CUP           9.08.050 of this
  associated outdoor                                       article 2
  exhibits
 Off road vehicle      CUP    CUP    NP     NP             
  parks
 Park/playground       SPR    SPR    SPR    SPR            
  Religious
  institutions,                                            Pursuant to section
 religious assembly,   CUP    CUP    CUP    CUP           9.08.050 of this
  and other public                                         article 2
  assembly
  Schools (public and                                      Pursuant to section
 private)              CUP    CUP    CUP    CUP           9.08.050 of this
                                                           article 2
                                                           Including, but not
  Sports and recreation                                    limited to,
  facility (commercial                                     equestrian
 operations open to    CUP    CUP    CUP    CUP           facilities, golf
  the general public)                                      courses, hunting
                                                           clubs, and tennis
                                                           and swim clubs
                                                           Including, but not
                                                           limited to,
                                                           racetracks and
  Sports or                                                stadiums, and per
 entertainment         NP     CUP    NP     NP            location criteria
  assembly                                                 and performance
                                                           standards, section
                                                           9.08.050 of this
                                                           article 2
Transportation,
communication and                                           
infrastructure:
                                                           Including, but not
                                                           limited to, radio
                                                           and television
  Communication                                            stations or towers,
 facility              CUP    CUP    NP     NP            satellite receiving
                                                           stations, but not
                                                           wireless
                                                           telecommunication
                                                           facilities
 Solar/wind or other                                       
  alternative energy:
                                                           Pursuant to chapters
                                                           9.42 and 9.43 of
                                                           this title,
  Accessory           P      P      P      P             permitted as a use
                                                           that is incidental/
                                                           accessory to the
                                                           primary use
                                                           Pursuant to
                                                            chapter 9.46 of
  Primary use         NP     NP     NP     NP            this title, not
                                                           permitted as a
                                                           primary use
  Transmission utility
 lines, pipelines, and CUP    CUP    CUP    CUP            
  control stations
                                                           Electrical power
                                                           generation,
                                                           transportation
                                                           facilities
                                                           (airports, bus
                                                           stations, car pool
 Utility and service   CUP    CUP    CUP    CUP           facilities), and
  uses and structures                                      sewage treatment and
                                                           disposal facilities,
                                                           require General Plan
                                                           amendment and zone
                                                           change to public/
                                                           quasi-public
                                                           designation
  Wireless                                                 Pursuant to
 telecommunication     CUP    CUP    CUP    CUP           chapter 9.44 of this
  facilities                                               title
 
(Ord. 253, 12-16-2014; amd. Ord. 268, 7-18-2017; Ord. 281, 11-6-2018; Ord. 300,
3-1-2022; Ord. 320, 11-5-2024)
9.07.050: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
Subdivisions, new land uses and structures, and alterations to existing land
uses and structures shall be designed, constructed, and established in
compliance with the requirements in table 2-4 of this section, in addition to
the applicable standards (e.g., landscaping, parking and loading, etc.) in
article 3, "Development Standards", of this title.
If a parcel is also located within an overlay district, see
 chapter 9.15, "Overlay Districts", of this article 2. In the event of conflict
between the base zone regulations and the overlay zone regulations, the
provisions of the overlay zone shall apply. The overlay zoning districts are
described in
chapters 9.16 through
9.22 of this article 2.
   TABLE 2-4
   RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICTS DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
Development Feature Requirement By Zoning District
                    R-HR RL3 RS3 RM1,3
Development      Requirement By Zoning District
Feature          R-HR       RL3              RS3              RM1,3
                            RL-1: 1 ac       RS-5: 6,000 sf
Minimum lot      20 ac      RL-2.5: 2.5 ac   RS-3.5: 7,200 sf 18,000 sf
size2                       RL-5: 5 ac       RS-2: 18,000 sf
                            RL-10: 10 ac
Minimum lot                                  <1 ac: W: 60'
dimensions       W: 150'    W: 150'          D: 100'          W: 100'
(W: width; D:    D: 150'    D: 150'          =1 ac: W: 150'   D: 150'
depth)                                       D: 150'
Minimum street   150'       100'             <1 ac: 60'       60'
frontage                                     =1 ac: 100'
Maximum lot                 < 10 ac: 1:4     <10 ac: 1:4
dimensions       1:4        = 10 ac: 1:3     =10 ac: 1:3      --
(width to depth)                              
                            RL-1: 1 du/ac
Maximum density             RL-2.5: 1 du/2.5 RS-5: 5 du/ac    RM-4: 4 du/ac
(dwelling units  1 du/20 ac ac               RS-3.5: 3.5 du/  RM-8: 8 du/ac
[du4]/acres                 RL-5: 1 du/5 ac  ac               RM-10: 10 du/ac
[ac])                       RL-10: 1 du/10   RS-2: 2 du/ac    RM-14: 14 du/ac
                            ac
                 Minimum setbacks required unless different setbacks are
Setbacks         delineated on final map, parcel map, composite development
                 plan, or are allowed pursuant to section
                 9.07.120 of this chapter, projection into yards
Front            75'        25'              25'              20'
Rear             75'        15'              15'              10' per story5
Side - street               Arterial: 25'    Arterial: 25'    Arterial: 25'
side             75'        Collector: 25'   Collector: 25'   Collector: 25'
                            Local: 15'       Local: 15'       Local: 15'
Side - interior  75'        15'              5' on 1 side,    10' per story5
(each)                                       10' on other
                 Maximum percentage of total lot area that may be covered by
Lot coverage     buildings
                 20%        25%              40%              60%
                 Architectural features and equipment may exceed height
Height limit     pursuant to section
                 9.31.030 of this title
                 35'        35'              35'              40'
Minimum district 100 ac     30 ac            10 ac            10 ac
size
                 See
                 chapter 9.33, "Parking And Loading Regulations", of this title
Parking          for additional parking regulations
                 2 parking spaces per unit within a garage or See
                 carport, with minimum interior clearance of  chapter 9.33 of
                 18' width for 2 spaces and 19' length        this title
                 See section
                 9.07.060, "Accessory Buildings And Uses", of this chapter.
Accessory        Accessory buildings have the same setback requirements as
structures       primary buildings, except they may encroach within 3' of rear
                 property line, but not occupy more than 25% of the required
                 rear yard
                 See article 3, "Development Standards", of this title,
                 including the following standards:
                    • Dedications and infrastructure improvement standards,
                 chapter 9.30 of this title (also, see subsection
                 9.07.100A8 of this chapter, dedication and infrastructure
                 requirements for single-family residential dwelling)
                    • Landscaping and native plant protection, section
                 9.07.130 of this chapter
                    •
                 Chapter 9.34, "Performance Standards", of this title relating
                 to avoiding adverse impact to adjoining properties relating to
Other applicable fire, explosive, or other hazards; noise or vibration; smoke,
standards        dust, odor or other form of air pollution; heat, cold,
                 dampness; electrical or other disturbance
                    •
                 Chapter 9.35, "Property Maintenance Standards", of this title
                    • Signs,
                 chapter 9.36 of this title
                    •
                 Chapter 9.42, "Accessory Solar Energy Systems", of this title
                    •
                 Chapter 9.43, "Accessory Wind Energy Systems", of this title
                    •
                 Chapter 9.44, "Wireless Communications Facilities", of this
                 title
 
Notes:
   1.    See section
9.08.070 of this article 2 for additional standards for the Multiple
Residential Zoning District.
   2.    The above referenced acreages that are equal to 1 acre or more refer
to gross acreage (total acreage including streets/infrastructure); less than 1
acre refers to net acreage (acreage not including streets, sidewalks,
infrastructure).
   3.    Map suffix: The number placed after the zoning district initial is the
allowable dwelling units (du) per 1 acre.
   4.    du: Dwelling unit.
   5.    One-story buildings are required to have a rear and interior side
setback of 10 feet; two-story buildings are required to have a rear and
interior side setback of 20 feet (for each additional story an additional 10
feet are required).
(Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
9.07.060: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS AND USES:
This section applies to all residential accessory buildings and uses within the
Town, other than accessory dwelling units regulated in section
9.08.100 of this article 2. Residential accessory buildings include any of
those customarily related to a residence, including garages, greenhouses,
storage sheds, studios, barns, workshops, guest houses, and similar buildings.
   A.   General Development Standards: Any new accessory building shall be
subject to the standards in table 2-5, "Accessory Building Development
Standards", of this section.
      1.   Zoning District Regulations Applicable: Unless otherwise provided,
accessory buildings and uses shall be subject to the same regulations as the
primary building or use on the site. Accessory buildings shall have the same
setback requirements as primary buildings, except pursuant to section
9.07.120, "Projections And Encroachments Into Required Setback Areas And Above
Height Limits", of this chapter, they may encroach within three feet (3') of
rear property line, but not occupy more than twenty five percent (25%) of the
required rear yard.
      2.   Accessory To Legally Established Primary Use: An accessory building
or use shall always exist in conjunction with, and never without, a legally
established primary building or primary use. Where the primary use has not yet
been established, an accessory building or structure may only be built subject
to the issuance of a temporary use permit in compliance with
chapter 9.72, "Temporary Use Permits", of this title.
         a.   Exception: An accessory building may be constructed on a vacant
parcel that is contiguous to a parcel under common ownership that contains a
primary use.
      3.   Determination Of Accessory Uses: In addition to the accessory uses
specifically provided for by this chapter or elsewhere within this Development
Code, each land use shall be deemed to include other accessory uses that are
necessarily and customarily associated with and are clearly incidental and
subordinate to the primary land use. The Director shall be responsible for
determining if a proposed accessory use meets the criteria in this chapter.
   TABLE 2-5
   ACCESSORY BUILDING DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS1
 
Development Feature Requirement By Zoning District
                    R-HR                RL                  RS
Maximum floor area  100 percent of      100 percent of      50 percent of
of a single         primary building    primary building    primary building
accessory building
Maximum number of   4, regardless of    4, regardless of    4, regardless of
accessory buildings any requirement for any requirement for any requirement for
                    a building permit2  a building permit2  a building permit2
Maximum height      25 feet             25 feet             25 feet
 
Notes:
   1.    Cumulative area of all buildings and impervious surfaces (i.e.,
driveways, patios, pools, etc.) shall not exceed the allowable lot coverage.
Properties which are 10 acres or larger in size in the Rural Hillside Reserve
(R-HR) Zoning District are exempt from square footage requirements for
accessory buildings. If a property has an accessory dwelling unit (ADU)
regulated by section
9.08.100 of this article 2, then only 3 accessory structures governed by this
section
9.07.060 may be located on the property. A guesthouse regulated by this section
 9.07.060 which contains no kitchen (cooking facilities, sinks, refrigerator,
or cabinets), is not permitted on a property that contains an ADU.
   2.    The following structures are not counted towards the maximum number of
4 accessory buildings: a) any structure under 120 square feet; b) pool houses
under 200 square feet; c) covered patios or similar structures associated with
swimming pools; d) gazebos under 200 square feet.
   B.   Architecturally Compatible: Any accessory building greater than one
hundred twenty (120) square feet in area shall be architecturally compatible
with the primary building. To be considered architecturally compatible,
accessory buildings shall have roofing materials and/or colors similar to the
primary structure. Metal material roofs are allowed provided the roof is
painted a similar color to the roof of the primary residence. Siding materials
may consist of wood, metal, stucco or similar materials. Proposed accessory
buildings which do not conform to these architecturally compatible standards
may be reviewed and acted upon by the Planning Commission, based upon
consistency and compatibility in the residential neighborhood and surrounding
areas.
   C.   Cargo/Shipping Containers: Other than as a temporary use for
construction purposes subject to, or where a building permit has been issued,
cargo/shipping containers are not allowed in a Residential Land Use Districts,
including containers under one hundred twenty (120) square feet.
Properties that are located in the Single Family Residential (RS), Rural Living
(RL), and Hillside Reserve (R-HR) Zoning Districts and are 2.5 acres or larger
may contain one cargo/shipping container. Cargo/shipping containers may be
located on residential properties containing less than 2.5 acres, but those
cargo/shipping containers are subject to Building Division requirements, must
be attached to a permanent foundation, and must be architecturally treated so
as not to appear as a cargo/shipping container.
As storage for construction clean-up or construction material, a cargo/shipping
container used as a temporary storage device may be located anywhere on the
property, except in the clear sight triangle, as defined in section
 9.31.020,"Clear Sight Triangle", of this title, during the duration of the
construction activity associated with an active building permit subject to the
approval of a temporary use permit.
When converted to a structure as defined in the adopted Building Codes,
attached to a permanent foundation, and architecturally designed and
constructed so that the structure is not distinguishable as a cargo/shipping
container, these structures are allowed in accordance with the adopted Building
Codes and this Development Code. (Ord. 280, 10-2-2018)
9.07.070: ANTENNAS:
The following noncommercial, receive-only antennas for the sole use of a
resident occupying a residential structure shall be permitted subject to the
specified standards:
   A.   A ground or structure mounted, radio or satellite dish antenna that
does not project above the roof ridgeline and does not have a diameter greater
than one meter (1 m) (39 in), which does not encroach within any required
setback.
   B.   A ground or structure mounted radio or television aerial not exceeding
seventy five feet (75') in overall height, which does not encroach within any
required setback, and which is set back from any property line by at least half
the height of the overall height of the antenna structure.
   C.   Any noncommercial, receive-only antenna which is proposed to exceed the
allowed height or encroach within a described setback shall be subject to the
review and approval of a special use permit.
Commercial satellite and wireless communications antennas are not exempt, and
are instead subject to
 chapter 9.44, "Wireless Communications Facilities", of this title. (Ord. 253,
12-16-2014)
9.07.080: DRAINAGE, ON SITE RETENTION, AND DUST CONTROL:
All new construction, including single-family residences shall comply with
chapter 9.37, "Soil Erosion And Dust Control", of this title, which includes
the following:
   A.   Drainage: All new construction shall be designed so that drainage is
directed away from any new construction. Diversions, obstructions, or confining
of existing drainage courses shall not be made in a manner as to divert
drainage to different properties, cause accelerated erosion, or to otherwise
cause damage to other properties.
   B.   On Site Retention: Any development of property shall provide on site
retention facilities as to retain increment plus ten percent (10%) nor shall it
concentrate flows to a greater extent than predevelopment conditions.
   C.   Dust Control: On parcels of one acre or larger, land being utilized for
residential purposes may only be cleared to provide for the installation of
building pads, driveways, landscaping, yards, play areas, vehicle parking,
accessory structures, property access, agricultural activities, or other
accessory use normally appurtenant to residential use. The purpose of this is
to reduce site disturbances and to reduce the amount of fugitive dust generated
from cleared land.
   D.   Easements And Deed Notices: The Town may require offers of dedication,
granting of easements, or recordation of deed notices to assist in the
implementation of the Town's master plan of drainage pursuant to
chapter 9.30, "Dedications And Infrastructure Improvements", of this title.
(Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
9.07.090: FENCES, WALLS, AND HEDGES:
   A.   Standards: Fences and walls within Residential-Hillside Reserve and
Residential Districts shall be subject to the following standards:
      1.   Solid walls and fences shall not exceed four feet (4') in height
within a required front yard setback area as specified in section
9.07.050, table 2-4 of this chapter, development standards. Within the required
front setback area fences up to six feet (6') in height may be allowed which do
not impair visibility. Horizontal fence elements shall not exceed four inches
(4") in diameter to maintain visibility.
      2.   Barbed wire, barbless wire or similar fencing shall be allowed in
the Rural Living and Residential-Hillside Reserve Land Use Districts on lot
sizes of one acre or greater. Razor wire is not permitted.
      3.   Barbed wire, razor wire, or similar fencing or electrified fencing
shall not be allowed in the Residential, Single-Family Zoning Districts.
      4.   Fences and walls on interior side and rear lot lines may be up to
six feet (6') in height.
      5.   The height of walls and fences shall be measured from the highest
side of the fence, however, where there are grade differences on side and rear
lot lines, total height of solid fences measured from the lowest side may be
increased by a maximum of two feet (2'). Within required front yard setback
areas, total height of solid walls, measured from the lowest side, shall not
exceed four feet (4').
      6.   Swimming pools, spas, and similar water elements shall be fenced in
compliance with the California building codes.
      7.   Materials shall include wood, stone, brick, masonry, stucco, adobe,
wrought iron, chainlink, or similar materials. Materials shall be consistent
with
chapter 9.35, "Property Maintenance Standards", of this title and shall not
include materials such as garage doors, tires, plywood, or other used
materials.
      8.   All fencing shall comply with the standard in section
9.31.020, "Clear Sight Triangle", of this title.
   B.   Excess Heights: Fence heights in excess of these standards may be
allowed by an approved conditional use permit or variance or when required by
the town for reasons of health, safety, and welfare of the general public.
   C.   Landscaped Hedges: Solid landscaped hedges in excess of four feet (4')
in height that would impair visibility shall not be allowed within required
front yard setback areas. Solid landscaped hedges beyond the required front
yard setback areas may be allowed in excess of four feet (4') in height. (Ord.
253, 12-16-2014)
9.07.100: MANUFACTURED HOME AND SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION
STANDARDS:
   A.   Standards: The following standards shall be applied to construction or
installation of all detached single-family residential structures and second
units unless otherwise specified within this code:
      1.   Manufactured Home Foundation Systems: Manufactured home foundation
systems shall comply with either Health And Safety Code section 18551 or title
25, chapter 2, sections 1333 and 1334 of the California code of regulations,
and shall include tie down, clip, or anchoring systems approved by an engineer
to resist lateral forces for the subject manufactured home.
      2.   Manufactured Home Certification Tag Or Label Required: A permit from
the building and safety division for the installation of a manufactured home
not within an approved and properly licensed mobilehome park shall not be
issued, if more than ten (10) years have elapsed between the date of
manufacture and the date of the application for the issuance of the permit to
install such manufactured home except as provided below. Also, the manufacturer
shall permanently affixed a label or tag to the manufactured home certifying
that the manufactured home complies with federal construction and safety
standards applicable to the national manufactured housing construction and
safety standards act of 1974 (42 USC section 5401 et seq., section 5415).
      3.   Siding: Siding material shall consist of stucco, wood, brick, stone,
or decorative concrete block. Synthetic products of a similar appearance and
equivalent durability shall be allowed. Metal siding, if utilized, shall be
nonreflective. The exterior covering material shall extend to a point at or
near grade, except if an approved solid wood, metal, concrete, or masonry
perimeter foundation is used, the exterior covering material need not extend
below the top of the foundation.
      4.   Roofing Material: The roofing material shall be tile, composite
shingles, wood shakes, and shingles (if allowed by the fire safety (FS) overlay
or other applicable overlay(s)), or other material customarily used in the
surrounding community. Roofs shall have eave and gable overhangs of not less
than twelve inches (12"), measured from the vertical side of building, except
for flat roof designs, with parapets, such as southwestern architectural
styles.
      5.   Entries And Exits: Entries and exits shall be completed in
compliance with chapter 10 of the California building code.
      6.   Minimum Size And Dimensions: Minimum floor area shall be seven
hundred twenty five (725) square feet measured from the exterior of the
structure. Minimum floor width and depth shall each average twenty feet (20')
measured from the exterior of the structure, excluding garages, porches,
patios, eaves, cabanas, and popouts.
      7.   Utility Hookups: Utility hookups and an area suitable to accommodate
the installation of a clothes washer and dryer shall be provided within the
primary structure or within an enclosed accessory structure.
      8.   Dedication And Infrastructure Requirements: A building permit shall
not be issued for the construction of single-family residential dwelling unless
all of the following infrastructure requirements are satisfied for an existing
lot of record:
         a.   Proof Of Legal And Physical Access:
            (1)   Physical access is a route which is traversable in a standard
(2-wheel drive) sedan. Proof shall consist of an engineer or surveyor's signed
and sealed letter, certifying that physical access has been completed.
            (2)   Legal access is:
               (A)   A dedicated right of way;
               (B)   A dedication to the town of Yucca Valley and to the public
in general, an easement for public road, town highway and public utility
purposes of a width as established by the circulation element of the general
plan. The easement or road constructed on the dedicated land shall not become a
town highway until and unless the council, by appropriate resolution, has
caused the road to be accepted into the town maintained road system.
               (C)   An existing traveled way that is substantially in
compliance with town road standards, where a prescriptive right by the user has
been established for the public use by court decree.
               (D)   Private road easement.
            (3)   When all feasible efforts to establish legal access in
accordance with subsection A8a(2) of this section have been exhausted, the lot
is an existing legally created parcel, and the property owner has physical
access, the director, in his/her discretion, may waive the requirement for
legal access on the condition that the property owner enters into an agreement
in the form required by the town which includes the property owner's: a)
representation that the owner has a right to physical access; b) acknowledgment
that proof of legal access has not been provided to the town's satisfaction;
and c) agreement to disclose to any subsequent owners that legal access has not
been established to the satisfaction of the town. Notation of said agreement
and conditions of waiver shall also be included on the building permit.
         b.   Infrastructure: Infrastructure as determined by the director
depending on the location of the parcel to be developed. This may include, but
not be limited to, any of the following: paved access, curbs and gutters,
sidewalk, bike paths and trails and/or appropriate drainage improvements.
         c.   Water:
            (1)   Water Purveyor: Required when in the service area of a water
purveyor and the purveyor can supply the water.
            (2)   Substantiated Well Water: If the subject parcel is not within
the service area of a water purveyor, well water may be allowed if all required
setbacks are met.
         d.   Sanitation:
            (1)   Sewer: Projects shall connect as required by ordinances and
policies adopted by the Hi-Desert water district.
            (2)   Septic systems: Allowed in compliance with the local regional
water quality control board regulations.
         e.   Fireflow: Adequate fireflow and fire safety measures in
compliance with the most current regulations adopted by the San Bernardino
County fire department. (Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
9.07.110: OUTDOOR LIGHTING:
Outdoor lighting shall be fully shielded or recessed in a manner to preclude
adverse impacts to adjacent properties as a result of light trespass, or to any
member of the public traveling on adjacent roadways or right of way, pursuant
to title 8,
chapter 8.70, "Outdoor Lighting", of this code for outdoor lighting standards.
(Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
9.07.120: PROJECTIONS AND ENCROACHMENTS INTO REQUIRED SETBACK AREAS AND ABOVE
HEIGHT LIMITS:
   A.   General Provisions: All required yards or court areas shall be open and
unobstructed from finished grade or from such other specified level at which
the yard is required, to the sky, except for structures allowed in yard by
table 2-6 of this section.
Nothing in this section is intended to prevent the construction of any allowed
primary or accessory structure within the building envelope which is the lot
area not included in any required yard or court.
   B.   Clear Areas:
      1.   The projections listed in table 2-6 of this section may not, in any
event, encroach on or into the following:
         a.   The clear sight triangle (section
 9.31.020 of this title) required at street and alley intersections. The clear
sight triangle is measured along the edge of the ultimate right of way of any
street or alley for thirty feet (30') from the intersection of two (2) streets,
or street and alley with a diagonal connecting the end points. It is intended
to limit objects which would obstruct the sight distance of motorists entering
the intersection.
         b.   Within three feet (3') of any lot line, unless greater setback is
required as noted in table 2-6 of this section (projections into yards).
   C.   Projections Into Yards: Projections allowed into required yards are
described in the following table:
      TABLE 2-6
      PROJECTIONS INTO YARDS - AMOUNT
      OF ENCROACHMENT ALLOWED
           Front And  Interior
Facilities Street     Side Yards Rear Yard
           Side Yards
                        Front And          Interior
Facilities              Street             Side Yards     Rear Yard
                        Side Yards
    Eaves; awnings,
    canopies, louvers,
    and similar shading
    devices; sills,
    cornices, planting
    boxes, cantilevered
    closet and bay
1.  windows on the      4 feet             2 feet         4 feet
    first floor, and
    similar features;
    skylights, flues,
    and chimneys; and
    other similar
    architectural
    features
    Evaporative
    coolers, air        4 feet when
2.  conditioner         screened from view 2 feet         4 feet
    compressors, and
    pool equipment
    Propane tanks sited
    per California fire
    code and fire
    hazard design
3.  standards specified 4 feet when        2 feet         4 feet
    by                  screened from view
    chapter 9.17 of
    this article 2
    (fire safety
    overlay)
    Attached patio
    roofs and similar
    residential
    structures having                                     15 feet, minimum 5
4.  open, unwalled      4 feet             2 feet         feet from rear lot
    sides along not                                       line
    less than 50
    percent of their
    perimeters,
    including top deck
    Breezeways and
    similar roofed
5.  passageways         4 feet             2 feet         2 feet
    projecting from a
    residential
    building
    Cantilevered or
    supported decks;
    and cantilevered
    bay windows
    provided the total
6.  width of bay        4 feet             3 feet         4 feet
    windows on any 1
    story does not
    exceed 50 percent
    of the length of
    the wall containing
    them
    Roofed stairways,
7.  landings, corridors 5 feet             3 feet         10 feet
    and fire escapes
    that are enclosed
    Porches, platforms,
    or stairways that
    are uncovered, or
    landings of average
8.  height not greater  4 feet             4 feet         10 feet
    than 4 feet above
    required yard or
    court level, plus
    railings up to 4
    feet high
    Open storage of
    boats, recreational
    vehicles, trailers,
    appliances, and
9.  similar materials   Not allowed        Allowed        Allowed
    and temporary trash
    storage. This shall
    not be located
    within 10 feet of
    structures
    Slides,
    clotheslines, and
10. similar equipment   Not allowed        Not allowed    Allowed
    and radio or
    television masts or
    antennas
    Garages, carports,
    sheds, and other
    detached, enclosed
11. accessory buildings Not allowed        Not allowed    Allowed
    which occupy no
    more than 25
    percent of the
    required rear yard
                        See parking
12. Unroofed parking    regulations (      Allowed        Allowed
    and loading areas   chapter 9.33 of
                        this title)
    Covered,
    underground, or
    partially excavated
    structures, such as Allowed, provided that the facilities do not extend
13. garages, fallout    more than 30 inches above the adjoining average
    shelters, wine      finished grade level
    cellars, basement
    and public utility
    or telephone/cable
    television vaults
    Fences, screening,
    safety guardrails,
    walls, and dense    4 feet maximum     6 feet maximum 6 feet maximum
14. hedges along        height1            height         height
    property lines in
    residential zoning
    districts
15. Signs               Allowed, subject to sign standards
    Swimming pools and
    spas no closer than
    5 feet from
16. property line. Pool Not allowed        Not allowed    Allowed
    equipment may not
    project into the
    required setbacks
    Freestanding
    photovoltaic or
17. solar panels, no    Not allowed        Not allowed    Allowed
    closer than 5 feet
    from property line
    Handicapped access
18. ramps are permitted Allowed            Allowed        Allowed
    in the front, side
    and rear setbacks
 
   Note:
      1.    Pursuant to section
 9.07.090 of this chapter, in a front and street side yard fence height can be
up to 6 feet, if it is an open design.
   D.   Projections Above Height Limits: These shall be allowed pursuant to
section
9.31.030 of this title. (Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
9.07.130: NATIVE LANDSCAPE DOCUMENTATION PACKAGE:
   A.   General Provisions: This section identifies the standards and
requirements for native landscaping on residential developments.
Regulated desert native plants for all residential projects, include the
following:
      REGULATED DESERT NATIVE PLANTS
 
Botanical Name        Common Name
Yucca schidigera      Mojave yucca
Nolina parryi         Parry's nolina
Juniperus californica California juniper
Yucca whipplei        Our Lord's candle
Pinus monophylla      Pinon pine
 
Pursuant to section 80117 of the state Food And Agricultural Code, the clearing
or removal of native plants from a canal, lateral ditch, survey line, building
site, or road or other right of way by the landowner or his agent, if the
native plants are not to be transported from the land or offered for sale, are
not subject to state regulations. For plants regulated by the state to be
transplanted off site, the town shall issue permits for their relocation in
accordance with this chapter.
   B.   Scope:
      1.   Provisions: The provisions of this section shall apply to all land
within the town of Yucca Valley.
         a.   It is prohibited for any individual or entity to remove,
transplant, damage, disturb, or destroy any part of any regulated desert native
plant, except its fruit, from any privately or publicly owned piece of land in
the town of Yucca Valley, without first obtaining a regulated desert native
plant permit from the town, unless said activity is exempt from the requirement
to first obtain a regulated desert native plant permit.
         b.   It is prohibited for any individual or entity to remove or damage
all or part of any regulated desert native plant on another property without
first obtaining written permission from the landowner and an approved regulated
desert native plant permit. It is unlawful for any person to falsify any
document offered as evidence of permission to enter upon the property of
another to remove all or parts of a regulated desert native plant, whether it
is alive or dead.
         c.   It is prohibited for any individual or entity, unless exempted by
this section, to destroy, dig up, mutilate or to possess any regulated desert
native plant, including the living parts of such, unless the regulated desert
native plant was disturbed under a regulated desert native plant permit. Any
individual or entity shall exhibit the regulated desert native plant permit
upon request for inspection by any duly authorized entity as described in this
section.
         d.   The commercial harvesting of regulated desert native plants is
prohibited.
      2.   Exceptions: The following are exempt from the provisions of this
section:
         a.   The removal and transplanting on and off site of regulated desert
native plants on and from lands owned by the United States government or any
federal agency, the state of California, the county of San Bernardino, the town
of Yucca Valley, and all special districts.
         b.   The removal and transplanting on and off site of regulated desert
native plants required by other codes, ordinances or laws of the town of Yucca
Valley, county of San Bernardino, the state of California or the United States
government or any federal agency.
         c.   The removal and transplanting on and off site of regulated desert
native plants which are an immediate threat to the public health, safety or
welfare, as determined by the planning division.
         d.   Removal as part of a bona fide agricultural activity as
determined by the town that is:
            (1)   Served by a water distribution system adequate for the proper
operation of such activity; and/or
            (2)   Conducted under a land conservation contract; and/or
            (3)   An existing agricultural activity; and/or
            (4)   A proposed bona fide agricultural activity if the planning
division is given thirty (30) days' written notice of the removal describing
the location of the land and the nature of the proposed activity. The planning
division shall notify the landowner in writing prior to the lapse of the thirty
(30) day period if, in the opinion of the planning division the activity is not
a bona fide agricultural activity or else the activity shall be deemed bona
fide.
         e.   Destruction or removal of a regulated desert native plant that
has died from natural causes or that has been destroyed by fire or other
natural disasters.
         f.   Any regulated desert native plant that is within the building
footprint and within twenty feet (20') of the building footprint of an existing
structure and for new infill residential development, as determined by the
planning division.
         g.   When removal is required by any public utility subject to
jurisdiction of the public utilities commission or any other constituted public
agency, including franchised cable TV, to establish or maintain safe operation
of facilities under their jurisdiction.
      3.   Permit Required: A native plant permit shall be required for the
removal and transplanting on and off site of any regulated desert native plants
identified in this section.
         a.   A regulated native plant permit application shall be submitted to
and approved by the town prior to the removal and transplanting on and off site
of any regulated desert native plant.
         b.   The regulated native plant permit application shall include the
following information:
            (1)   The botanical and common name of the regulated desert native
plant.
            (2)   A native plant survey showing the precise location of each
regulated desert native plant.
            (3)   The trunk or stem diameter of each regulated desert native
plant.
            (4)   The height of each regulated desert native plant.
            (5)   The health or condition of the regulated desert native plant,
including the identification of those regulated desert native plants that are
not likely to survive transplanting procedures.
            (6)   The proposed placement or disposition of the regulated desert
native plant, i.e., transplant on site, adopt off site, remove, etc.
            (7)   Additional information that may be required based upon the
individual application.
   C.   Single-Family Residential Infill, Existing Single-Family Residences And
Multi-Family Residential Three Units Or Less:
      1.   A regulated desert native plant permit application shall be
submitted to the planning division at the time of filing a building or grading
permit application for development of infill residential lots unless exempt.
      2.   A regulated desert plant permit application shall be submitted to
the planning division for removal or relocation on or off site when the
property owner is proposing improvements to the property including swimming
pools, swing sets, horse arenas, other animal keeping activities, basketball
courts, tennis courts, recreational or other vehicle parking, driveways and
access, play areas, accessory structures, and other uses typical to single-
family residences.
      3.   The regulated desert native plant application documentation shall
contain the following information:
         a.   Printed photographs depicting the proposed native plant that is
to be removed or transplanted. The photographs must clearly show the location,
size of the subject plant, and its surroundings. At minimum, the surrounding
area photographs shall include two (2) different views of the subject plant.
         b.   A plot plan is required in order to show location of regulated
desert native plants proposed to be removed, transplanted, or retained in its
native location. The plot plan shall clearly demonstrate that the property
meets the standards in table 1 of this section.
      4.   Written permission from the property owner(s) authorizing the
proposed removal or relocation of regulated desert native plants from the
property.
      5.   The property owner may attempt to retain as many regulated desert
native plants in their native location as possible. The property owner may also
attempt to transplant or relocate as many regulated desert native plants as
possible on site. The property shall comply with the minimum standards
specified in table 1 of this section.
      6.   Those regulated desert native plants identified in the permit
application to not remain on site following development, and which are not
incorporated into a project's landscaping plan, may be available for adoption
at the property owner's discretion.
      7.   The following chart establishes the minimum undisturbed area that
shall be provided:
      TABLE 1
 
Lot Size          Required Undisturbed Area
Up to 2.49 acres  No mandate, incentives only
2.5 to 4.99 acres A minimum of 5% of the lot shall remain undisturbed
5+ acres          A minimum of 10% of the lot shall remain undisturbed
 
      8.   Single-family residential infill development in the rural living
residential land use district, which exceed the minimum required undisturbed
area from table 1 of this section by a minimum of ten percent (10%), shall be
allowed up to a ten percent (10%) deviation of all development code standards
listed in table 2 of this section and approved in conjunction with the project.
The deviations include the following:
      TABLE 2
Typical Standards Deviations Permitted
Lot size Varies   Up to a 10% reduction in lot size based on property zoning
Typical Standards                        Deviations Permitted
Lot size                       Varies    Up to a 10% reduction in lot size
                                         based on property zoning
Front setback                  25'       22.5'
Side/rear setbacks             15'       13.5'
Arterial/collector street side 25'       22.5'
setback
Local street side setback      25'       22.5'
Lot dimensions                 150'/150' 135'/135'
Lot coverage                   20%       22%
 
      9.   Single-family residential infill development in the single- family
residential land use district which voluntarily retains ten percent (10%)
undisturbed area shall be allowed up to a ten percent (10%) deviation of all
development code standards listed in table 3 of this section and approved in
conjunction with the project. The deviations include the following:
      TABLE 3
Typical Standards Deviations Permitted
Lot size Varies   Up to a 10% reduction in lot size based on property zoning
Typical Standards                       Deviations Permitted
Lot size                       Varies   Up to a 10% reduction in lot size
                                        based on property zoning
Front setback                  25'      22.5'
Side/rear setbacks             5'/10'   4.5'/9'
Arterial/collector street side 25'      22.5'
setback
Local street side setback      15'      13.5'
Lot dimensions                 60'/100' 54'/90'
Lot coverage                   40%      44%
 
      10.   Single-family residential infill development in the residential-
hillside reserve land use district which exceeds the minimum required
undisturbed area from table 1 of this section by a minimum of ten percent (10%)
and provide documentation that the applicant has attended educational training
on native plants shall be allowed up to a ten percent (10%) deviation of all
development code standards listed in table 4 of this section and approved in
conjunction with the project. The deviations include the following:
      TABLE 4
 
Typical Standards                     Deviations Permitted
Lot size                       Varies Up to a 10% reduction in lot size
                                      based on minimum lot size required
Front setback                  75'    67.5'
Side/rear setbacks             75'    67.5'
Arterial/collector street side 75'    67.5'
setback
Local street side setback      75'    67.5'
 
   D.   Regulated Desert Native Plant Removal Procedures For All New
Residential Subdivisions And Multi-Family Four Units Or More: Single-family
residential subdivisions and multi-family four (4) units or more, shall be
allowed to transplant on and off site and to remove all regulated desert native
plants from their native locations within the property boundaries, pursuant to
the following development standards and requirements:
      1.   Application Submission: A regulated desert native plant permit
application shall be submitted to the planning division at the time of filing
land use applications for development of residential subdivision projects. Land
use applications for residential subdivision projects may include, but are not
limited to, planned developments, specific plans, parcel and tract map
applications, grading permit applications, building permit applications, and
any other applications necessary for town authorization of land disturbing or
development activity. The planning commission shall review and approve all
native plant applications for residential subdivisions.
      2.   Application Information: The regulated desert native plant
application documentation shall contain the following information:
         a.   The botanical and common name of the regulated desert native
plant.
         b.   The precise location of each regulated desert native plant.
         c.   The trunk or stem diameter of each regulated desert native plant.
         d.   The height of each regulated desert native plant.
         e.   The health or condition of the regulated desert native plant,
including the identification of those regulated desert native plants that are
not likely to survive transplanting procedures.
         f.   The proposed placement or disposition of the regulated desert
native plant, i.e., transplant on site, adopt off site, remove, etc. The plans
for the regulated desert native plant survey shall be no smaller than twenty
four inches by thirty six inches (24" x 36") unless otherwise approved by the
planning division.
      3.   Transplanting Off Site And On Site: All regulated desert native
plants identified in the regulated desert native plant survey as likely to
survive transplanting shall be made available for adoption or shall be
transplanted on site as part of the project's landscaping plan. All native
plant permit applications shall illustrate maximum utilization of regulated
desert native plants in the project's landscaping plan. It is strongly
encouraged that all Yucca brevifolia (Joshua trees) identified for adoption and
transplantation be relocated through the use of an adequately sized tree spade.
      4.   Adoption: Those regulated desert native plants identified in the
regulated desert native plant survey as likely to survive transplanting
procedures, and which are not incorporated into a project's landscaping plan,
shall be available for adoption pursuant to this section to the general public
for an adoption period of thirty (30) days, or until all available plants have
been adopted, whichever is sooner, prior to any other ground disturbing
activity on the project site. A thirty (30) day noticing and signage period is
required which noticing period may begin prior to issuance of the regulated
desert native plant permit.
      5.   Removal: Those regulated desert native plants not incorporated into
a project's landscaping plan and not adopted during the thirty (30) day
adoption period are allowed to be removed.
      6.   Table 5: The following additional standards shall apply to all new
residential subdivisions:
      TABLE 5
 
Proposed Lot Size Required Undisturbed Area
Up to 2.49 acres  None required, incentives only
2.5 to 4.99 acres A minimum of 5% of the project site shall remain undisturbed
5+ acres          A minimum of 10% of the project site shall remain undisturbed
 
      7.   Table 6: New residential subdivisions in the rural living land use
districts, which exceed the minimum required undisturbed area from table 5 of
this section by a minimum of ten percent (10%), and provide documentation that
the applicant has attended educational training on native plants shall be
allowed up to a ten percent (10%) deviation of all development code standards
listed in table 6 of this section and approved in conjunction with the project.
The deviations include the following:
      TABLE 6
Typical Standards Deviations Permitted
Lot size Varies   Up to a 10% reduction in lot size based on property zoning
Typical Standards                        Deviations Permitted
Lot size                       Varies    Up to a 10% reduction in lot size
                                         based on property zoning
Front setback                  25'       22.5'
Side/rear setbacks             15'       13.5'
Arterial/collector street side 50'       45'
setback
Local street side setback      25'       22.5'
Lot dimensions                 150'/150' 135'/135'
Lot coverage                   20%       22%
 
      8.   Table 7: New residential subdivisions in the single-family
residential land use districts which exceed the minimum required undisturbed
area from table 5 of this section by a minimum of ten percent (10%) shall be
allowed up to a ten percent (10%) deviation of all development code standards
including:
      TABLE 7
Typical Standards Deviations Permitted
Lot size Varies   Up to a 10% reduction in lot size based on property zoning
Typical Standards                       Deviations Permitted
Lot size                       Varies   Up to a 10% reduction in lot size
                                        based on property zoning
Front setback                  25'      22.5'
Side/rear setbacks             5'/10'   4.5'/9'
Arterial/collector street side 25'      22.5'
setback
Local street side setback      15'      13.5'
Lot dimensions                 60'/100' 54'/90'
Lot coverage                   40%      44%
 
      9.   Table 8: New residential subdivisions in the residential- hillside
reserve land use district, which exceed the minimum required undisturbed area
from table 5 of this section by a minimum of ten percent (10%), and provide
documentation that the applicant has attended educational training on native
plants shall be allowed up to a ten percent (10%) deviation of all development
code standards listed in table 8 of this section and approved in conjunction
with the project. The deviations include the following:
      TABLE 8
 
Typical Standards                     Deviations Permitted
Lot size                       Varies Up to a 10% reduction in lot size
                                      based on minimum lot size required
Front setback                  75'    67.5'
Side/rear setbacks             75'    67.5'
Arterial/collector street side 75'    67.5'
setback
Local street side setback      75'    67.5'
 
       TABLE 9
Typical Standards For Deviations Permitted
Multi-Family Projects
 Residential          Residential
 Multi-Family RM      Multi-Family RM
Typical Standards For                         Deviations Permitted
Multi-Family Projects
                          Residential         Residential
                          Multi-Family RM     Multi-Family RM
Front setback             25'                 22.5'
Side/rear setback         10'/10' (per story) 9'/9' (per story)
Arterial/collector street 35'                 31.5'
side setback
Local street side setback 25'                 22.5'
Lot coverage              60%                 66%
Parking                   Varies              10% reduction of total parking
                                              not to include handicap stalls
 
   (Ord. 253, 12-16-2014; amd. Ord. 291, 1-19-2021)
CHAPTER 9.08
STANDARDS AND REGULATIONS FOR SPECIFIC USES IN RESIDENTIAL AND HILLSIDE RESERVE
DISTRICTS
SECTION:
9.08.010: Purpose
9.08.020: Animal Keeping In Residential Districts
9.08.030: Bed And Breakfast Uses
9.08.040: Childcare Homes
9.08.050: Institutional Uses
9.08.060: Manufactured Housing, Mobilehomes And Recreational Vehicle Parks
9.08.070: Multi-Family Residential Standards, Site Design Guidelines And
Architectural Design Guidelines
9.08.080: Planned Residential Development
9.08.090: Residential/Social Care Facilities
9.08.010: PURPOSE:
This chapter provides locational, site planning, developmental, and/or
operational standards for certain land uses that are allowed by this article 2
within Residential Districts, and for activities that require special standards
to mitigate their potential adverse impacts. (Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
9.08.020: ANIMAL KEEPING IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS:
   A.   Purpose: This section establishes regulations to allow animal keeping
as an accessory use to a primary single dwelling unit for all properties which
allow for the keeping of animals unless otherwise specified.
   B.   Allowed Number Of Animals:
      1.   Small Animals: Accessory small animal raising is allowed in all
Residential Districts subject to the lot sizes and number of allowed animals
identified in table 2-7, "Allowed Number Of Small Animals", of this section.
   Town of Yucca Valley   TABLE 2-7
   ALLOWED NUMBER OF SMALL ANIMALS
       Single Residential (RS)                   Rural Living (RL)
Animal          Maximum Number  Multi-Family     And Residential-Hillside
       Lot Size Of Animals      Residential (RM) Reserve (R-HR)
                Allowed Per Lot
               Single Residential (RS)                         Rural Living
                                               Multi-Family    (RL)
Animal                         Maximum Number  Residential     And Residential-
               Lot Size        Of Animals      (RM)            Hillside
                               Allowed Per Lot                 Reserve (R-HR)

               Less than 7,200 2 dogs and 2                    Less than 2
               sq. ft.         cats                            acres, RS
                                                               standards apply
               7,200 to 10,000 3 dogs and 3                     
               sq. ft.         cats            Maximum 2
               10,000 to       4 dogs and 4    animals allowed
               20,000 sq. ft.  cats            (1 dog and 1    Greater than 2
                                               cat; 2 dogs or  acres, 1
                                               2 cats).        additional dog
                                                              and cat for each
Dogs/cats                                      More dogs and   additional
               20,000 sq. ft.  5 dogs and 5    cats require    20,000 sq. ft.
               and greater     cats            SUP             lot (maximum 8
                                                               each).
                                                                
                                                               Over 8 each
                                                               requires SUP

               Over 5 dogs and over 5 cats
               require special use permit                      
               (SUP)
               20,000 sq. ft.  10 fowl for                     10 fowl for
               minimum         first 20,000                    first 20,000 sq.
                               sq. ft.                         ft.
Fowl                           5 additional    Not allowed     Each additional
               Each additional fowl (maximum                   10,000 sq. ft.:
               10,000 sq. ft.  25 total)                       5 fowl (maximum
                                                               25 total)
                               1 male fowl per                 1 male fowl per
Fowl, male     20,000 sq. ft.  20,000 sq. ft.  Not allowed     20,000 sq. ft.
               minimum         minimum                         minimum (maximum
                               (maximum 2)                     2)
                                                               Less than 1
                               1 pig allowed                   acre, RS
               Less than       in lieu of 1                    standards apply
Potbellied pig 20,000          dog (female or  Not allowed      
                               neutered male                   2 per first
                               only)                           acre; 1 each
                                                               additional acre
               20,000 sq. ft.  5 rabbits for                   5 rabbits for
               minimum         first 20,000                    first 20,000 sq.
                               sq. ft.                         ft.
Rabbits                                        Not allowed     Each additional
               Each additional 2 rabbits                       10,000 sq. ft.:
               10,000 sq. ft.  (maximum 10                     2 rabbits
                               total)                          (maximum 40
                                                               total)
 
      2.   Large Animals: Large animal raising for parcels not located within
the large animal overlay district is allowed in single- family residential
districts subject to the lot sizes and number of allowed animals identified in
table 2-8 of this section (allowed number of large animals not within large
animal overlay district) and section
9.21.030, table 2-26, "Allowed Number Of Large Animals Within Large Animal
Overlay District", of this article 2. See
chapter 9.21, "Large Animal Overlay District", of this article 2 for allowed
large animal types and large animal densities for properties located within the
large animal overlay district.
      TABLE 2-8
      ALLOWED NUMBER OF LARGE ANIMALS IN
      SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
      NOT WITHIN LARGE ANIMAL OVERLAY DISTRICT
Animal Type Minimum Lot Size Maximum Number Of Animals1
Animal Type          Minimum Lot Size           Maximum Number Of Animals1
Cattle1              20,000 sq. ft. with 60 ft. 1 per 10,000 sq. ft. (maximum
                     minimum lot frontage       9)
                                                2 pair (male and female) per
                                                acre or (1 male and 3
                     1 acre minimum lot size in females). Maximum 4 on first
Emus and ostriches1  RL and R-HR districts      acre. 2 additional for every
                                                10,000 sq. ft. after first
                                                acre. Maximum 9. Over 9
                                                requires livestock permit
Equine1              20,000 sq. ft.             1 per 10,000 sq. ft. (maximum
                                                9)
Goat, female1        7,200 sq. ft.              1 per 5,000 sq. ft.
Goat, male1          20,000 sq. ft.             1 per lot
Llamas and camelids1 20,000 sq. ft.             1 per 10,000 sq. ft. (maximum
                                                9)
Sheep1               7,200 sq. ft.              1 per lot
 
   Note:
      1.    The cumulative total of all large animals allowed is 9 per lot.
More than a cumulative total of 9 large animals shall be subject to a special
use permit, see
chapter 9.69 of this title.
      3.   Animals Not Classified: Any animal not specifically classified
within this section shall be classified by the director based upon a
determination of what it is most similar to and as to the probable impact on
the health, safety, or general welfare of the community and the neighborhood.
      4.   Single-Family Residences On Multi-Family Property: Single- family
residences located on property designated as multi-family shall be subject to
the RS standards.
   C.   Accessory Animal Raising: Accessory animal raising of densities greater
than, or of animal types different from, those specified in tables 2-7 and 2-
8 of this section, and section
9.21.030, table 2-26 of this article 2, shall be subject to approval of a
special use permit.
      1.   Newborn Animal Exception: Offspring of allowed adult animals shall
not be counted in determining the number of adult animals on a given parcel, if
such offspring do not exceed the age limitations for accessory animal keeping
as identified in table 2-9, "Newborn Animal Exception", of this section.
      TABLE 2-9
      NEWBORN ANIMAL EXCEPTION
Animal Minimum Time Limit
Animal        Minimum Time Limit
Bovine        6 calendar months (300 lb. maximum)
Buffalo       6 calendar months
Dogs/cats     4 calendar months
Emu/ostriches 12 calendar months
Equine        12 calendar months
Goats         2 calendar months
Llama/camelid 12 calendar months
Sheep         2 calendar months
Swine         2 calendar months
 
         a.   Offspring of nonallowed adult animals shall be counted as adult
animals, notwithstanding their age at any particular time.
         b.   The total number of offspring shall not exceed fifty percent
(50%) of the number of adult animals maintained on the parcel(s) unless
authorized by approval of a discretionary livestock permit except for offspring
of dogs and cats.
         c.   Bovine offspring up to three hundred (300) pounds or six (6)
months old, may be substituted for equine offspring in all single-family
residential land use districts where large animal keeping is allowed.
   D.   Confined Animals: Animals which are normally maintained in aquariums,
terrariums, birdcages or similar devices, each of which does not exceed fifty
(50) cubic feet and where such devices are maintained within an enclosed
building, shall be allowed as an accessory animal raising use. The maximum
number or density limitations for these animal types shall comply with public
health regulations.
   E.   Combination Of Animals: Combination of the animal types are allowed,
provided:
      1.   The total number in each category is not exceeded.
      2.   Where a density ratio of animals per lot area is specified, the lot
area or portion thereof shall be allocated only once to accessory animal
raising use. Lot area used to qualify one animal type shall not be reused to
allow another animal type.
      3.   Animal types which are limited only by a maximum number per lot are
allowed in addition to any other accessory animal raising use.
      4.   For the purpose of this section, lots with attached multi- family
residential structures shall be limited to those animals allowed on lots less
than seven thousand two hundred (7,200) square feet.
      5.   All animal raising land uses shall comply with public health laws
regarding proper care and maximum number of animals.
      6.   Each animal raising land use includes all structures necessary to
maintain and care for such animals (i.e., barn, corral, stable, pens and
coops). Such structures shall comply with all development standards including
those specified by the land use district and this section.
   F.   Animal Separation:
      1.   Setbacks: Animal setback requirements are identified in table 2-10,
"Animal Setback Requirements", of this section.
      TABLE 2-10
      ANIMAL SETBACK REQUIREMENTS
Setback Requirements Equine, Fowl, Emus, And Cattle, Buffalo, Sheep, Goats,
                     Ostrich                 Llamas, Pigs, And Camelids
                              Equine, Fowl, Emus, And Cattle, Buffalo, Sheep,
Setback Requirements          Ostrich                 Goats, Llamas, Pigs, And
                                                      Camelids
From nearest livable dwelling
or buildable setback line of  70 ft.                  100 ft.
adjoining property
From nearest livable dwelling
or buildable setback line of
adjoining property within the
large animal overlay          45 ft.                  45 ft.
district, which do not have
property lines contiguous to
the boundaries of the large
animal overlay district
Front property line           10 ft.                  10 ft.
Rear property line, if
adjacent to other privately   10 ft.                  10 ft.
held property
Rear property line, if
alleyway or dedicated flood   0 ft.                   0 ft.
control right of way
Side property lines           5 ft.                   5 ft.
Street side setbacks shall be
pursuant to section                                   
9.07.050 of this article 2
 
      2.   Fencing, Shelters, And Enclosures: Animal fencing, shelter, and
enclosure requirements are identified in table 2-11, "Fencing And Shelter
Requirements", of this section and the following subsections:
      TABLE 2-11
      FENCING AND SHELTER REQUIREMENTS
 
Animal         Fencing Requirements            Shelter Requirements
               Each individual cattle/buffalo
               shall be kept on private        All cattle/buffalo shall be
               property and provided with a    provided with adequate shelter
Cattle/buffalo minimum of 400 square feet in a to protect them from the
               fenced area. Fencing shall be   elements
               adequate to maintain cattle and
               buffalo
               All equine shall be maintained  All equine shall be provided
Equine         in a fenced area at all times   with adequate shelter to protect
                                               them from the elements
               Fencing shall be adequate to    All goats shall be provided with
Goats          maintain goats                  adequate shelter to protect them
                                               from the elements
               Pigs shall be maintained in a   Adequate cooling systems shall
               fenced area at all times.       be required for the keeping of
Pigs           Fencing shall be adequate to    pigs, in addition to providing
               maintain the animal on the      shelter from the elements
               property at all times
 
         a.   Animal Enclosures: Animals shall be maintained by a fence at
least five feet (5') high and made of either pipe corrals, chainlink, wood with
horizontal members no less than six inches (6") apart, solid masonry or other
appropriate screening and confining materials. Such a fence may be located on
an interior side or rear lot line and fifteen feet (15') from a side street
right of way.
            (1)   No barbed wire fencing shall be allowed within the
incorporated town boundaries that is specific to livestock keeping pursuant to
these regulations.
            (2)   Fences which are adjoining and running parallel to private or
public streets or bridle trails shall be a minimum of five feet (5') in height
with posts spaced not more than ten feet (10') apart.
            (3)   Animals shall be properly caged or housed in their corrals,
barns, pens or other enclosures. All corrals, pens, coops, lofts, exercise
areas or similar structures shall be fenced or otherwise enclosed to adequately
confine the animal(s).
         b.   Distance From Water Well: All animals shall be kept no closer
than one hundred feet (100') from domestic water well.
   G.   Animal And Premises Maintenance: The occupant of the premises on which
any livestock is kept shall keep and maintain the animal(s) and premises in
such a manner as not to be detrimental to the health, safety or welfare of any
person on any adjoining property or of the general public, nor be materially
detrimental to the use, enjoyment or value of property of other persons in the
vicinity of the premises. Such maintenance shall be at least sufficient to keep
dust, odors and flies from having an adverse effect on any other property. The
following techniques are recommended to meet the maintenance standard specified
by this section and shall be utilized if no other alternative techniques
sufficient to meet that standard are utilized.
      1.   Sprinkler system or other control methods adequate to control dust
in corrals, turnout areas, and riding rings shall be installed and utilized as
necessary on the premises.
      2.   Lime, sand or other appropriate materials shall be utilized on the
premises to eliminate odor problems.
      3.   Chemical spray and/or bait and other approved measures to control
flies shall be utilized as frequently as necessary for vector control.
      4.   Livestock keeping areas shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary
condition at all times.
      5.   Standing surface water, refuse and manure shall not be permitted to
accumulate in piles that are not able to dry out. In all cases of livestock
keeping, manure shall be spread to dry daily and shall not be allowed to
accumulate to create a nuisance to surrounding properties.
      6.   Other sections of this chapter notwithstanding, no person shall keep
or permit to remain on any premises within the town any animal that habitually
disturbs the peace and quiet of the inhabitant of a neighborhood by howling,
barking, crying, baying, or making other noise.
      7.   Buildings housing farm animals, all animal enclosures, and all
pasture areas shall be maintained free from litter, garbage and the
accumulation of weeds or manure. Premises shall be maintained in a neat and
sanitary manner. All animal raising shall comply with public health laws
regarding proper care of animals. If animals are not maintained in compliance
with these standards or are otherwise allowed to become a nuisance, the town
shall initiate enforcement proceedings.
   H.   Commercial Animal Keeping: Commercial animal keeping for equine and
other large animals is permitted within all single- family residential land use
districts subject to the standards and provisions as identified in this
development code. Commercial uses include, but shall not be limited to,
boarding, training, breeding and other similar uses related to the keeping of
equine and other large animals which do not belong to the property owner or
lessee and for those similar uses which generate additional traffic, noise and
similar or associated impacts within the vicinity of the proposed site.
      1.   Density: The densities established for commercial animal keeping
shall be the same as those densities for those single- family residential land
use districts located within the large animal overlay district map, as
accessory to the residential use.
      2.   Minimum Parcel Size: One acre is established as the minimum parcel
size for the commercial keeping of large animals, except for buffalo, bulls and
boars. A minimum of five (5) acres is required for the keeping of buffalo,
bulls and boars.
   I.   Required Permits: Prior to the establishment of any commercial
livestock keeping activity, the property owner or lessee shall first obtain a
special use permit from the town.
   J.   Animals Not Classified: Any animal not specifically classified within
this chapter shall be classified by the director based upon a determination of
what it is most similar to and as to the probable impact on the health, safety,
or general welfare of the community and the neighborhood. (Ord. 253, 12-16-
2014)
9.08.030: BED AND BREAKFAST USES:
This section establishes standards for the operation of bed and breakfast
facilities in order to maintain and preserve the residential character,
integrity, and property values of surrounding areas within which these
facilities are located and maintained.
   A.   Required: All bed and breakfast uses shall be subject to the following:
      1.   Special Use Permit: A special use permit shall be required in
compliance with
chapter 9.69, "Special Use Permits", of this title and shall be renewed
annually. The review authority may void a special use permit for a bed and
breakfast use for noncompliance with the conditions outlined in the approval.
      2.   County Health Permit: A county health permit shall be required and
renewed as required by San Bernardino County environmental health services.
      3.   Transit Occupancy Tax (Bed Tax) Requirements: Bed and breakfast uses
shall be subject to the transient occupancy tax (bed tax).
   B.   Development Standards And Requirements: All bed and breakfast uses
shall comply with the following standards and requirements:
      1.   Land Use Zoning District Requirements: Bed and breakfast uses shall
be subject to the development standards for the land use zoning district in
which they are located as identified in
chapter 9.07, "Residential And Hillside Reserve Districts", of this article 2
and the development standards in this chapter.
      2.   Single-Family Dwelling Structure Only: Only a single-family dwelling
structure, including related habitable accessory structures (e.g., guesthouse,
second dwelling units, etc.) shall be considered for bed and breakfast uses.
      3.   Accessory To Residential Use: The bed and breakfast use shall be
conducted as an accessory residential use only.
      4.   Owner Residency Requirement: The residential structure shall serve
as the primary residence of the owner of the bed and breakfast use. If a
corporation is the owner, a majority shareholder of the corporation shall
reside in the residential structure where the bed and breakfast use is
operated.
      5.   Code And State Law Requirements:
         a.   Dwelling units proposed for bed and breakfast use shall comply
with standards and specifications of the California building code.
         b.   Each guestroom shall be equipped with a fire extinguisher and a
smoke detector that conform to the California building code standards (CBC no.
43-6).
         c.   An exit/egress map and an emergency evacuation map shall be
displayed in a prominent location in each guestroom in compliance with state
law.
      6.   Access And Driveways: The owner of the bed and breakfast use shall
ensure that required access, driveways, and parking spaces remain clear and
unobstructed and are available and ready for the occupants' use at all times.
      7.   Parking: In addition to the required parking standards for
residential uses in
chapter 9.33, "Parking And Loading Regulations", of this title one parking
stall measuring nineteen feet (19') in length and nine feet (9') in width shall
be provided on site for each guestroom. These additional parking spaces shall
comply with the location and design standards established by the applicable
land use zoning district and the provisions of
chapter 9.33, "Parking And Loading Regulations", of this title. Neither on
street parking nor tandem parking shall be used to satisfy this on site parking
requirement. Additional parking spaces may be required when deemed necessary by
the review authority.
      8.   Design Standards:
         a.   Number Of Rooms And Parcel Size Requirements: Table 2-12, "Bed
And Breakfast Uses Number Of Rooms And Parcel Sizes", of this section
identifies the number of guestrooms, minimum number of bathrooms, and minimum
parcel sizes applicable to each of the three (3) types of bed and breakfast
uses.
      TABLE 2-12
      BED AND BREAKFAST USES
      NUMBER OF ROOMS AND PARCEL SIZES
Type Of Use Number Of Guestrooms Minimum Number Of Minimum Parcel Size1 (Net
                                 Bathrooms         Area)
Type Of Use       Number Of  Minimum Number Of    Minimum Parcel Size1
                  Guestrooms Bathrooms            (Net Area)
Host home         1          2                    6,000 sq. ft.
                  2          2                    7,200 sq. ft.
Bed and breakfast 3          3                    8,200 sq. ft.
home              4          3                    9,200 sq. ft.
                  5          3                    10,200 sq. ft.
                                4              20,000 sq. ft. plus
Bed and breakfast 6 - 10     Access for           1,000 sq. ft. per
inn/lodge                    physically           every bedroom over 6
                             handicapped required
                  Over 10    Not allowed          Not allowed
 
   Note:
      1.    A bed and breakfast use shall not be allowed in a dwelling that is
located on a site that has less than the required parcel area specified by the
underlying land use zoning district.
         b.   Alterations And Modifications: Alterations and modifications may
be made to the structures and the site but the alterations shall be compatible
with the character of the neighborhood. The alterations and modifications shall
also comply with applicable provisions, requirements, and standards of this
code.
         c.   Landscaping: Additional landscaping may be required to screen
parked vehicles from direct view of the neighbors, particularly where the
parking is located within the front yard setback.
         d.   Exterior Lighting: All exterior lights shall comply with title 8,
chapter 8.70, "Outdoor Lighting", of this code.
         e.   Signs: A nonilluminated identification sign, not to exceed six
(6) square feet in area, shall be allowed. If not attached to the residence,
the sign shall not exceed six feet (6') in height and shall blend with the
architectural style of the structure and the neighborhood.
         f.   Minimum Separation Requirements: No bed and breakfast use shall
be allowed where more than two (2) other bed and breakfast uses currently exist
within one thousand feet (1,000') of the perimeter of the proposed site.
      9.   Kitchen Facilities And Service Of Meals:
         a.   No cooking facilities shall be allowed in guestrooms.
         b.   The sale of food or other materials shall be limited to guests
who are currently residing on the premises where the use is located and not to
the general public.
      10.   Records Of Patrons: Records of all guests who patronize the bed and
breakfast establishment shall be preserved for a minimum period of three (3)
years before they are discarded.
      11.   Pedestrian And Vehicular Traffic: Pedestrian and vehicular traffic
shall be limited to that normally associated with residential land use zoning
districts.
      12.   Commercial Vehicles: The use shall not involve the use of
commercial vehicles for the delivery of materials to or from the premises
beyond those commercial vehicles normally associated with residential uses.
      13.   Outdoor Storage: There shall be no outdoor storage of materials or
equipment, nor shall merchandise be visible, from outside the home.
      14.   Residential Character Of Structure: The appearance of the structure
shall not be altered nor the occupancy within the residence be conducted in a
manner that would cause the premises to differ from its residential character
either by the use of colors, materials, construction, lighting, signs, or the
emission of sounds, noises, and vibrations.
      15.   Utilities And Community Facilities: The uses of utilities and
community facilities shall be limited to that normally associated with the use
of the property for residential purposes. (Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
9.08.040: CHILDCARE HOMES:
   A.   Purpose: This section provides standards for the location, development,
and operation of large and small family childcare homes in compliance with
state law.
   B.   Childcare; Large Family (9 To 14 Children):
      1.   Purpose: This subsection provides standards for the location,
development, and operation of large family childcare homes for nine (9) to
fourteen (14) children in compliance with state law.
      2.   Applicability: The provisions in this subsection shall apply to
large family childcare homes, as defined by current state law, which shall be
allowed in all residential zones in compliance with this article 2 and the
following standards.
      3.   State And Other Regulatory Requirements: These standards shall apply
in addition to requirements imposed by the California department of social
services and other regulatory agencies (e.g., fire department).
      4.   Town Standards: All large family childcare homes shall comply with
all of the following town standards:
         a.   Licensing: The operator of a large family childcare home shall
obtain and maintain a valid license from the California department of social
services in compliance with California code of regulations, title 22, division
12 (child care facility licensing requirements).
         b.   Special Use Permit Required:
            (1)   Review Of Permit; Director: A special use permit shall be
reviewed and either approved or denied by the director in compliance with the
provisions of Health And Safety Code section 1597.46(a)(3) and this section.
            (2)   Approval Of Permit: The permit may be approved only if the
large family childcare home complies with Health And Safety Code section
1597.46(d), this section, all applicable town ordinances, and any regulations
adopted by the state fire marshal.
         c.   Care Provider's Residence: The large family childcare home shall
be the primary residence of the care provider, and the use shall be clearly
residential in character and shall be incidental and accessory to the use of
the property as a residence.
         d.   Fences Or Walls Required:
            (1)   A six foot (6') high fence or wall shall be constructed and
properly maintained along all property lines or around the area where outdoor
care is provided (as deemed appropriate by the director), except in the front
setback area or within a clear sight triangle, in compliance with the
requirements of section
9.07.090, "Fences, Walls, And Hedges", of this article 2.
            (2)   Fences or walls shall provide for safety with controlled
points of entry.
         e.   Play Area And Equipment: Outdoor play area(s), including all
stationary play equipment, shall be located in the rear area of the parcel or
outside of required front or side yards.
         f.   Separation:
            (1)   A large family child daycare home proposed within a
residential zoning district shall not be located within a three hundred foot
(300') radius of another large family childcare home, other daycare facility,
or group home facility, disregarding the corporate boundary of the town.
            (2)   The director may allow more than one large family childcare
home within three hundred feet (300') of another like facility specified in
subsection B4f(1) of this section, if the applicant first demonstrates one of
the following to the satisfaction of the director:
               (A)   Any existing large family childcare home located within
three hundred feet (300') is at capacity; or
               (B)   The need exists for a particular or unique service not
provided by an existing like facility specified in subsection B4f(1) of this
section, located within three hundred feet (300') of a proposed large family
childcare home.
         g.   Drop Off/Pick Up Areas, And Use Of Garages:
            (1)   A minimum of two (2) off street parking spaces shall be
provided as a drop off and pick up area. The spaces shall be in addition to
those required for the dwelling unit in compliance with
 chapter 9.33, "Parking And Loading Regulations", of this title. A driveway may
be used to provide the spaces; provided, the town traffic engineer approves the
arrangement based on traffic and pedestrian safety considerations.
            (2)   A passenger loading plan shall be required to minimize noise
and parking issues to the maximum extent possible.
            (3)   Additional off street parking may be required by the director
to minimize impacts on adjacent parcels.
            (4)   A facility located on a through street classified as a
collector or arterial street shall provide a drop off and pick up area that
does not require backing into the street.
            (5)   Garages shall not be used as a large family childcare play
area unless alternative on site covered parking is available to meet minimum
residential parking requirements and further, the garage is improved to meet
building and fire code regulations as a habitable space.
         h.   Noise: In order to protect adjacent residential dwellings from
noise impacts, a large family childcare home located within a residential zone
may only operate a maximum of seventeen (17) hours each day between the hours
of six o'clock (6:00) A.M. and eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and may only conduct
outdoor activities between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and nine
o'clock (9:00) P.M.
         i.   No Exterior Evidence: There shall be no exterior evidence and/or
signage identifying the large family childcare home.
         j.   Inspection Required:
            (1)   Before commencing operation of a large family childcare home,
the building and safety division shall conduct an inspection of the premises on
which the large family childcare home is to be operated to ensure that there is
no unpermitted building, electrical, and/or mechanical improvements to the
property.
            (2)   The property owner shall obtain and finalize all required
building permits for all unpermitted construction on the premises before
commencing the on site operation of a large family childcare home.
         k.   Issuance Of Special Use Permit: The director shall issue the
special use permit before the operation of the large family childcare home
begins, once the operator has demonstrated compliance with Health And Safety
Code section 1597.46(d), this section, all applicable town ordinances, and any
regulations adopted by the state fire marshal.
   C.   Childcare; Small Family (1 To 8 Children):
      1.   Permitted By Right: As required by state law 1 , small family
childcare homes (8 or fewer children) shall be considered a residential use of
property and shall be an allowed use, permitted by right, within a residence
located in a residential zone with no town land use permits required. The
operator of a small family childcare home shall obtain and maintain a valid
license from the California department of social services in compliance with
California code of regulations, title 22, division 12 (child care facility
licensing requirements). (Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
 
Notes
1 1. HSC § 1597.30 et seq. (family day care homes).
9.08.050: INSTITUTIONAL USES:
   A.   Purpose: This section provides general standards applicable to
institutional uses to preserve neighborhood character, provide compatibility
with adjoining properties, and to ensure that existing traffic improvements for
the site are at appropriate levels and that traffic improvements are required
in accordance with the circulation element of the general plan.
   B.   Applicability: The provisions in this section shall apply to
recreation, education and public assembly (institutional uses) as listed in the
permitted uses table (section
9.07.040, table 2-3 of this article 2). This includes arboretums, campgrounds,
religious institutions and other places of public assembly, conference centers,
hospitals and convalescent homes, museums, and schools, which shall be subject
to the standards of this section.
   C.   Locational, Developmental, And Operational Standards: In addition to
the standards specified for the specific zoning district in which a use is
located the following shall also apply to institutional uses. In the event of a
conflict between provisions, the following provisions shall apply:
      1.   The site shall be located on or adjacent to a paved street.
      2.   The site shall be located on an eighty foot (80') wide collector or
greater as shown on the circulation element of the general plan.
      3.   Building setback of fifty feet (50') from all property lines is
required when developing in or adjacent to a single-family residential land use
district; otherwise the underlying building setback of the land use district
shall apply.
      4.   Minimum parcel size shall be 2.5 acres in single-family residential
land use districts.
      5.   Midblock locations within single-family residential land use
districts shall be discouraged.
      6.   The height of any structure shall be compatible with that of the
surrounding development.
      7.   The architectural design of facilities shall be designed in such a
manner that the facility is compatible with and in scale with the surrounding
development. For development within a commercial land use district the project
shall be consistent with the adopted commercial design guidelines.
      8.   Parking area for facilities in residential land use districts that
accommodate a large number of vehicles shall be divided into a series of
smaller parking areas by landscaping and by offsetting portions of lots in ways
that effectively reduce the visual impacts of large parking areas.
      9.   Access drives and parking aisles shall be kept at the maximum
distance possible from any adjacent residential units. (Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
9.08.060: MANUFACTURED HOUSING, MOBILEHOMES AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS:
   A.   Manufactured Housing/Mobilehome Parks:
      1.   Purpose: This subsection provides for the establishment, location,
design, and improvement of mobilehome parks.
      2.   Applicability:
         a.   Where Allowed: The development standards provided in this chapter
shall apply to the establishment or enlargement of mobilehome parks in zoning
districts where allowed in compliance with this article 2.
         b.   State Law: The requirements of this chapter shall include the
provisions of the mobilehome parks act 1  and the applicable mobilehome parks
regulations adopted by the state department of housing and community
development (code of regulations, title 25, division 1, chapter 2, section 1000
et seq.). The requirements of this chapter are intended to equal or exceed the
requirements of the mobilehome parks act and the mobilehome regulations. The
requirements of the mobilehome parks regulations shall be incorporated as part
of this chapter and compliance with the regulations shall be required.
      3.   Enforcement Authority: The California department of housing and
community development shall enforce state law and regulations that apply to the
maintenance, use, occupancy, sanitation, and safety of mobilehome parks or that
apply to permits to operate them.
      4.   Development Standards:
         a.   Locations: Mobilehome parks/manufactured home land lease
communities shall be located where allowed in compliance with this article 2
and in compliance with state law.
         b.   Parcel Size And Density: The minimum parcel sizes and density
standards for mobilehome parks shall be as indicated in section
9.07.050, table 2-4, "Residential Zoning Districts Development Standards", of
this article 2.
         c.   Drainage And Flood Hazard: A mobilehome park shall be located on
a well drained site, properly graded to provide for adequate disposition of
water runoff. The area shall be free of flood hazard from external sources. The
review authority may require dedications and improvements that will ensure
proper protection of a mobilehome park.
         d.   Streets And Highways: The review authority may require additional
dedication and improvements on streets and highways abutting the proposed
mobilehome park in compliance with the circulation element of the general plan
and established widths of local and collector streets.
         e.   Parcel Areas And Dimensions: A parcel in a mobilehome park shall
contain a minimum area of one thousand two hundred (1,200) square feet with a
minimum width of thirty feet (30') fronting on a driveway, provided that:
            (1)   Parcels larger than the above minimum sizes may be required
by the commission where it is determined that the larger parcel size will be:
               (A)   Consistent with the general pattern established by
mobilehome parks in the vicinity, or
               (B)   Necessary to accommodate manufactured home sizes as stated
in the mobilehome park report submitted by the applicant.
            (2)   Parcels on curved driveways or cul-de-sacs where lot lines
are either converging or diverging from the front to the rear of the parcel
shall have an average width of at least thirty feet (30') with a minimum twenty
five foot (25') driveway frontage.
         f.   Required Separation Distances: Mobilehomes shall be located so
they are at least ten feet (10') apart from side to side, eight feet (8') apart
from side to rear, six feet (6') apart from rear to rear, and ten feet (10')
from a structure, except for accessory structures used as private toilets or
baths for exclusive use of the occupant of the mobilehome site. Mobilehome
hitches shall face the access driveway.
         g.   Minimum Side And Rear Setbacks: The combined side setbacks of a
mobilehome parcel shall total a minimum of ten feet (10'); provided, however,
that a mobilehome shall not be closer than three feet (3') to a side or rear
parcel line. Where mobilehome lots abut side or rear setbacks as defined in
subsection A4i, "Perimeter Setbacks", of this section, setback areas may be
included as a part of the perimeter setback.
         h.   Maximum Coverage: The maximum lot or parcel coverage of a
mobilehome parcel shall not exceed seventy five percent (75%) of the total area
of the parcel. Coverage shall include any area that is covered or occupied by a
trailer coach, cabana, vehicle, ramada, awning, closet, cupboard, or other
structure.
         i.   Perimeter Setbacks: The following setbacks shall apply to the
perimeters of a mobilehome park:
            (1)   Front setback of at least twenty five feet (25') along the
public street upon which the mobilehome park fronts. This setback shall extend
across the entire width of the park.
            (2)   Side setbacks of not less than five feet (5') along each side
boundary line of the mobilehome park.
            (3)   A rear setback of not less than ten feet (10') along the rear
boundary line of the mobilehome park.
            (4)   Greater setbacks may be required at the discretion of the
commission where greater setbacks are necessary due to topographic conditions,
grading, drainage, or protection of adjacent property.
            (5)   No part of a mobilehome shall be located within a required
perimeter setback area.
         j.   Circulation: Roads within mobilehome parks shall be designed to
provide reasonable and convenient traffic circulation and shall meet the
following standards:
            (1)   A road shall not be less than thirty four feet (34') in width
if car parking is allowed on one side of the road and not less than forty two
feet (42') in width if parking is allowed on both sides.
            (2)   Road widths shall be limited to thirty four feet (34') when
parcels are located on only one side of the road. Road widths of thirty four
feet (34') shall be required to provide for parking on both sides shall be
necessary when parcels abut the road on both sides.
            (3)   The entire width of the roads within mobilehome parks shall
be surfaced with a minimum of two inch (2") thick asphalt concrete, mix, or
other material as approved by a soils report.
         k.   Parking: Two (2) parking spaces shall be provided on each
mobilehome parcel, one of which shall be covered. A parking area for use by
guests and visitors shall also be established and maintained. There shall be
one guest parking space for every ten (10) mobilehome parcels, or fraction of
ten (10), within the mobilehome park. Each parking space shall be ten by twenty
feet (10 x 20') in size plus the additional area for adequate ingress and
egress. Tandem parking is allowed.
         l.   Walkways: Walkways shall be provided to allow reasonably direct
access to all parcels, service structures, and other areas or structures used
by occupants of the mobilehomes. Collector walkways serving utility structures,
playgrounds and other general areas shall be at least four feet (4') in width
and individual entrance walks to each mobilehome site shall be at least three
feet (3') in width. Walkways shall be constructed of asphalt, concrete, plant
mix, or other approved materials that will allow all weather pedestrian
movement.
         m.   Walls Or Fences: A wall or fence six feet (6') in height shall be
erected and maintained along each side and rear boundary of a mobilehome park
except along the portion of the side or rear boundary line that either abuts a
public street or is within a front or side setback adjacent to the street, in
which case, a wall or fence may be required. A wall or fence shall be solid and
of concrete, brick, or other masonry construction or of chainlink metal
construction or wrought iron with an evergreen hedge planted on the side facing
the mobilehome park. Where, in the opinion of the review authority, it is
unreasonable to require the construction of a fence or wall, the review
authority may waive or modify the requirements as specified in this paragraph.
         n.   Screening Of Service Areas: The review authority may require
fencing or screen planting around areas containing garbage, rubbish, or waste
disposal, or ground service, or recreational areas as a condition of approval
of a mobilehome park.
         o.   Storage Areas:
            (1)   Common storage areas shall be provided with an enclosed
fenced area for the residents of the mobilehome park for the storage of
licensed recreational vehicles, trailers, travel trailers, and other licensed
vehicles. The storage area shall contain a minimum of fifty (50) square feet
for each mobilehome parcel in the mobilehome park.
            (2)   Storage on a mobilehome parcel shall comply with the
provisions of title 25, division 1 of the California code of regulations.
      5.   Bonds To Guarantee Improvements: If all improvements required as a
condition of approval of a mobilehome park are not satisfactorily completed at
the time a certificate of occupancy is requested, the owner or owners of the
mobilehome park shall, before the issuance of the permit, enter as contractor
into an agreement with the town guaranteeing that the required work will be
accomplished. The form and amount of security shall be determined by the
director.
      6.   Public Address Systems: Public address systems or loudspeakers shall
not be allowed if audible outside the boundaries of the mobilehome park.
      7.   Modifications In Design: Where a mobilehome park application is
submitted for approval that, although not in compliance with the design
requirements in this chapter, are consistent with the general purpose and
intent of this chapter, the review authority may approve the park with
conditions and restrictions that ensure that the general purposes are
satisfied.
         a.   Park designs utilizing duplex or cell type groupings of
mobilehome parcels or other modified designs may be approved under the
provisions of this section.
         b.   Modifications of the above standards of design may be approved
under the provisions of this section for mobilehome parks, travel trailer
parks, recreational trailer parks, temporary trailer parks, and tent camps.
However, in no case shall the modifications conflict with minimum requirements
of the mobilehome parks act 2  and the applicable mobilehome parks regulations
adopted by the state department of housing and community development (code of
regulations, title 25, division 1, chapter 2, section 1000 et seq.).
   B.   Recreational Vehicle Parks:
      1.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to provide general standards
applicable to recreational vehicle parks to provide compatibility with
adjoining properties.
      2.   General Standards:
         a.   All recreational vehicle parks shall contain a minimum of ten
(10) acres.
         b.   Length of occupancy for any recreational vehicle shall not exceed
one hundred twenty (120) continuous days or one hundred eighty (180) days in
any one year period.
         c.   Each site/space shall be of a size and shape that will provide
reasonable area for the parking of the recreational vehicles next to the
utility connections and for the parking of another vehicle side by side.
         d.   Each site/space in the park shall be identified with an
individual number in logical sequence and shown on the approved site plan for
the park.
         e.   A six foot (6') high masonry wall or approved equivalent fencing
shall be constructed along all exterior property lines to protect the existing
or future use of the adjacent property. Fencing along any street frontage may
consist of a six foot (6') high decorative wrought iron or masonry wall.
         f.   Each space shall have direct access to an abutting paved roadway.
The roadways within the park shall be paved in accordance with town standards
to a width of not less than thirty feet (30') for two-way traffic and a minimum
width of not less than twenty feet (20') for one-way traffic. One-way drive
aisles must originate and terminate at two-way drive aisles.
         g.   Roadways shall not be used for parking.
         h.   All recreational vehicle parks shall be designed to allow for two
(2) access points to a public thoroughfare.
         i.   Each space shall contain a picnic table, barbecue, and at least
one shade tree for every two (2) RV spaces.
         j.   All exterior lighting shall comply with title 8,
chapter 8.70, "Outdoor Lighting", of this code.
         k.   Refuse containers shall be conveniently located throughout the
park and contained within a trash enclosure in accordance with town standards.
         l.   Common recreational area shall be required for all recreational
vehicle parks. The recreation area may contain a clubhouse, swimming pool, game
courts, and open areas. Open areas may be either designed for active or passive
recreation, provided that the slope of the land does not exceed a gradient of
ten percent (10%). Grade of ten percent (10%) or more shall be common area, but
not counted as recreational area.
         m.   Each space shall be improved with paving, gravel, or other
nonpaved surface as approved by the town.
         n.   Each recreational vehicle park shall be landscaped in accordance
with a landscape plan as approved by the planning division.
         o.   The facility shall have an on site manager. The manager's living
quarters can either be a recreational vehicle or single- family residence.
      3.   Accessory Uses: The following structures and their uses are
permitted in all recreational vehicle parks:
         a.   Private recreation facilities for the use of the occupants of the
park, including, but not limited to, a swimming pool, playground area, putting
green, game courts (i.e., tennis, basketball), and other similar recreational
facilities.
         b.   Social and recreational clubhouse.
         c.   Common laundry facilities.
         d.   Common shower, bath, and locker room facilities.
         e.   Snack bar and food store provided this use is fully contained in
a social or recreational center (clubhouse) and serving only park guests.
         f.   Other uses that are similar to those listed above and compatible
with the site and surrounding land uses.
         g.   Recreation vehicle or travel trailer storage area shall be fully
screened as approved by the planning commission with fencing not less than six
feet (6') in height and shall be clearly designated on the approved site plan.
      4.   Prohibited Uses:
         a.   Except for park owner or park management personnel as allowed
under subsection B2o of this section, there shall be no permanent residency in
a recreational vehicle park.
         b.   The on site sale of propane is permitted subject to fire
department review and approval.
         c.   Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, no part of the
park shall be used for any business, commercial, manufacturing, retail, vending
purposes, unless those activities are approved under the CUP or separate
permit.
      5.   Setback Requirements:
         a.   When the park is within the RM-10 and RM-14 land use district,
the social and recreation (clubhouse) building shall maintain the following
setbacks:
            (1)   One hundred foot (100') setback from all interior property
lines of the park.
            (2)   Fifty foot (50') setback from all streets.
            (3)   All other accessory structures shall maintain the required
building setbacks of the land use district.
         b.   When the park is within the C-G and I land use districts, the
social and recreation (clubhouse) building shall maintain the following
setbacks:
            (1)   Fifty foot (50') setback from all interior property lines of
the park.
            (2)   Fifteen feet (15') from all street frontages.
            (3)   All other accessory structures shall maintain the required
building setbacks of the land use district.
         c.   A minimum ten foot (10') landscape setback shall be maintained
along all street frontages.
         d.   When a park is adjacent to a residential land use district, a
minimum twenty five foot (25') wide landscape buffer shall be provided between
the spaces and the property line.
         e.   When a park is adjacent to a commercial or industrial land use
district a minimum ten foot (10') wide landscape buffer shall be provided
between the space and the property line.
      6.   Findings For Projects In The Multi-Family RM-10 And RM-14: Before
taking any action to approve a project in the RM land use district, the
planning commission or council shall find that the proposed recreational
vehicle park conforms to the following criteria:
         a.   Location and design be consistent with the goals and policies of
the general plan and other applicable goals and policies.
         b.   The RV park is compatible with the surrounding land uses and does
not negatively impact the surrounding neighborhood. (Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
 
Notes
1 1. HSC § 18200 et seq.
2 1. HSC § 18200 et seq.
9.08.070: MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL STANDARDS, SITE DESIGN GUIDELINES AND
ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN GUIDELINES:
   A.   Multi-Family Development Standards:
      1.   General Provisions: The specific purposes of the multiple
residential district regulations are to:
         a.   Provide appropriately located areas for multiple-family dwellings
that are consistent with the general plan and the standards of public health
and safety established by this code;
         b.   Provide adequate light, air, privacy, and open space for each
dwelling unit and protect residents from the harmful effects of excessive
noise, population density, traffic congestion and other adverse environmental
impacts;
         c.   Provide sites for public and semipublic land uses needed to
complement residential development or requiring a residential environment; and
         d.   Ensure the provisions of public services and facilities needed to
accommodate planned population densities.
      2.   Development Standards: All multi-family housing projects shall
comply with applicable site development standards of this code. In addition,
the following standards shall apply to multi-family projects:
   TABLE 2-13
   MULTI-FAMILY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
Development Feature Required Standards
Development    Required Standards
Feature
Separation     2 Units       3 Or More     Between Accessory And Other
between                      Units         Buildings
buildings      15 ft.        25 ft.        15 ft.
Minimum        Studio        1 Bedroom     2 Bedroom   3 Bedroom And Larger
dwelling unit  500 sq. ft.   650 sq. ft.   750 sq. ft. 1,000 sq. ft.
size
Required open  2 To 3 Units  4 Or More     Waiver Of Private Open Space
space:                       Units
               450 sq. ft.   First floor:
  Private open per unit      150 sq. ft.   Private open space may be waived if
  space:                    per unit      the dwelling unit size of the units
 Minimum      15 ft.                     built is at least 200 sq. ft. larger
  square feet  (minimum      Second floor: than the minimum dwelling unit size
               dimension)    75 sq. ft.    specified above
                             per unit
  Common open  All multi-family developments, with the exception of duplexes
 space:       and triplexes (2 to 3 units), shall provide not less than 30% of
  Minimum size the net site area as common usable open space
  Required     2 To          4 To          11 To       51 To     101 To
  amenities:   3 Units       10 Units      50 Units    100 Units 200 Units
  Number and   Private       200 sq. ft. minimum space for each amenity
  size of      outdoor space
  required     450 sq. ft.   1             2           3         4
  amenities
 
      3.   Common Usable Open Space Standards: Common usable open space shall
meet the following requirements:
         a.   Usable open space areas shall not include rights of way, vehicle
parking areas, areas adjacent to or between structures less than fifteen feet
(15') apart, required front setbacks, private open space areas, or areas with
slopes exceeding fifteen percent (15%);
         b.   Such areas shall be planted with turf or ground cover, or other
landscape material that will control dust;
         c.   Such areas shall be screened from the streets and adjacent sites;
         d.   Common usable open space areas shall be unobstructed except by
improvements that enhance the usability, such as swimming pools, fountains,
sunshades, and plantings.
         e.   See table 2-13 of this section for common open space required.
      4.   Required Amenities: The following amenities are required for multi-
family residential projects:
         a.   All multi-family housing developments shall provide recreational
amenities with the site which may include: swimming pool and spa; fitness room,
clubhouse; tot lot with play equipment; daycare center; picnic shelter/barbecue
area with seating; court game facilities such as tennis, basketball, or
racquetball, softball or baseball fields.
         b.   The type of amenities shall be reviewed and approved with the
site plan and design review process for the project. Additional amenity(ies)
may be required if the planning commission determines that the proposed amenity
(ies) are not of a quality that is in keeping with the number of dwelling
units/scope of the project.
         c.   See table 2-13 of this section for number and size of required
amenities.
      5.   Landscaped Setback Required: A minimum landscape setback area of
fifteen feet (15') as measured from the property line shall be provided along
each street frontage of the project.
      6.   Permitted Installations Within The Required Building Setback Lines:
Unless specifically regulated by another section of this code or the town code,
permitted installations within the required building setback lines may include
landscaping, garden walls, retaining walls, parking lots, recreational
facilities (side and rear only), entry statements (decorative block/stucco,
boulders, signage), sidewalks and driveways, underground utilities, lighting
and similar fixtures.
      7.   Pedestrian Circulation: An interior walkway system with a minimum
width of four feet (4') shall be incorporated into the project for the purposes
of providing direct access to and from all individual dwelling units, trash
storage areas, parking areas, recreational areas and other outdoor common
areas.
      8.   Parking: The number of required parking spaces shall be in
conformance with the parking code in
chapter 9.33 of this title.
      9.   Laundry Facilities:
         a.   Common laundry facilities of sufficient number shall be provided
(facilities are required to be accessible, consistent with the California
building code); or
         b.   Each dwelling unit shall be plumbed and wired for a washing
machine and dryer.
      10.   Lighting: The following areas shall be lighted during the hours of
darkness in a manner consistent with the outdoor lighting ordinance:
         a.   Private streets and drive aisles;
         b.   Parking areas;
         c.   Walkways or pedestrian paths;
         d.   Individual dwelling entries;
         e.   Addresses;
         f.   Recreational facilities;
         g.   Active outdoor play areas; and
         h.   Project entryways.
      11.   Trash Enclosures: One trash enclosure per ten (10) units shall be
located at convenient distances from the buildings they serve and sited to
minimize visual and odor impacts to abutting properties.
      12.   Buffer Areas: There shall be a minimum fifteen foot (15') wide
planted buffer between new multi-family residential development and existing
single-family developments or single- family land use districts.
   B.   Multi-Family Site Design Guidelines:
      1.   Purpose: The council finds that the general quality of multi- family
development throughout the town necessitates the implementation of better
development standards than currently exist. The lack of architectural
articulation, landscaping, proper parking accommodations, suitable amenity
packages and other design features adversely affects the quality of life for
multi-family development residents and adversely affects property values in
these areas. Multi-family housing design standards are necessary to improve and
maintain the quality of multi-family housing for the safety and benefit of
residents and for the preservation of property values in the vicinity of multi-
family neighborhoods.
Further, and in general, multi-family and cluster housing, because of their
higher densities, tend to generate large parking areas and a decrease in
private open space. If not properly designed, parking facilities can dominate
the site and relegate open spaces to leftover areas not related to the
structure and not useful to the residents. Multi-family developments surrounded
by high walls and parking lots or rows of carports along public streets are
examples of undesirable design features. These design standards are intended to
mitigate these undesirable design features and promote a pleasant residential
environment within the context of higher density development within the town.
      2.   Objectives: The following are objectives of the design standards:
         a.   Introduce a clear and consistent set of standards designed to
assist the development community in comprehending the town's intent in
regulating design quality and ensuring that long term interests of the
community are met;
         b.   Create an environmentally based set of standards intended to
realistically reflect natural constraints and development opportunities;
         c.   Enhance and preserve neighborhoods and property values by
providing good quality design;
         d.   Improve site planning and appearance through the application of
modern and creative solutions to commonly repeated design problems found
throughout the town.
      3.   Site Planning And Design: Multi-family residential developments
shall be sited to respond to and respect property views, site features,
existing topography, dwelling unit privacy and any adjacent existing
development. The following multi-family site planning standards shall be used
to create a safe, neighborhood environment in the project area:
         a.   Integrate Structures Into Natural Landforms:
            (1)   Site grading shall recognize existing natural landforms and
drainage patterns by providing an appropriate transition of architectural
elements to grade. For example, in larger developments use the natural features
as amenities by leaving natural drainage swales or rock outcroppings
undisturbed and orienting buildings and open spaces around them.
            (2)   Building pads and vehicle circulation shall generally follow
contour lines rather than cross them. When a building must cross contour lines,
step building pads down the slope rather than mass grading the site.
            (3)   The grading plan shall direct and provide for an adequate
flow of surface runoff to catch or retention basins while contouring the land
to blend with existing conditions at the boundaries of the site.
         b.   Neighborhood Compatibility: New multi-family residential
development shall relate to adjacent single-family residential districts in the
following ways:
            (1)   By stepping down the scale, height and density of buildings
at the edges of the development when surrounding neighborhoods are of lower
density or smaller scale. Step the building down at the ends or sides nearest
the single-family unit to a height approximately equal to that of the adjacent
single-family residence (or of typical single-family residences in the vicinity
if adjacent to an undeveloped single-family zoning district).
            (2)   By incorporating architectural elements and materials that
are similar to those used in the neighborhood.
            (3)   By including a front yard that is similar to a single-family
residence.
            (4)   By locating parking areas within the project interior or at
the side or back when necessary to achieve the "residential front yard"
appearance.
      4.   Entry Drives: The principal vehicular access into a multi- family
development shall be through an entry drive rather than a parking drive. Entry
drives provide access to parking areas free from parking and backing out
movements, parking drives lead through parking stall areas and can be
interrupted by vehicles pulling into or out of parking spaces. Colored,
textured paving (i.e., interlocking pavers) treatment at the entry drives is
encouraged.
         a.   Entry Statements:
            (1)   Entry Statement Standards: Projects with ten (10) or more
units shall include vehicular and pedestrian entry statements that shall be
consistent with the following:
               (A)   Provide one visually dominant entry to the development
that conveys a sense of arrival;
               (B)   Entry statements shall provide an open view into the
development with landscaping and project directories;
               (C)   Design the entry to provide a transition from the outside
to an internal visual focus, such as landscaping, a water feature, sculpture or
a building;
               (D)   Special attention shall be given to hardscape and
landscape treatments at the entry to enhance the overall image of the
development. An entry statement shall consist of at least two (2) of the
following items:
                  (i) Hardscape structure (trellis, decorative, low garden wall
with berming, guardhouse, decorative gate);
                  (ii) Specimen landscaping (large, distinctive vegetation,
i.e., relocated Joshua trees) or mature trees;
                  (iii) Large boulder groupings;
                  (iv) Water saving and easy maintenance fountains;
                  (v) Textured or stamped concrete;
                  (vi) Monument signage with accompanying landscape and
berming; or
                  (vii) Other comparable installations.
      5.   Clustering Of Units:
         a.   Consistent Application In Site Plan: The clustering of multi-
family units shall be a consistent site planning element. Structures composed
of a series of simple yet varied planes assure compatibility and variety in
overall building form.
         b.   Perimeter Arrangement: Buildings shall be clustered to achieve a
pleasing streetscape and visual variety at the perimeters of the development
through variation in building siting, massing, orientation and landscaping.
         c.   Connections Between Building Clusters: In multi-building
developments, pedestrian paths shall be provided to connect buildings in the
development with one another, on site amenities and adjacent streets.
      6.   On Site Parking: In multi-family developments, there are generally
three (3) ways to accommodate parking: parking drives, parking lots/courts, and
garages within the residential structures. Projects with either long,
monotonous parking drives or large, undivided parking lots are prohibited. The
following standards shall be followed in the design of parking areas for multi-
family developments:
         a.   Parking Lot Layout:
            (1)   In general, parking areas shall be visible from the
residential units that utilize them.
            (2)   Locate required resident parking spaces convenient to the
units they serve.
            (3)   The location of parking and drive aisles shall minimize the
points of conflict between pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
         b.   Parking Area Landscaping:
            (1)   At least one landscape or shade tree shall be provided for
every seven (7) spaces of open parking areas.
            (2)   Provide landscaped planters in parking areas to break up
expanses of pavement.
            (3)   Parking drives, when located on the periphery of a project,
tend to isolate the project from its surroundings. Perimeter parking drives are
not desirable and shall be minimized. Where a parking area separates a group of
dwellings from the street, pedestrian or bicycle paths consisting of
contrasting paving material shall provide access from groups of dwellings to
the street.
         c.   Parking Lots/Courts:
            (1)   Parking courts shall not contain more than two (2) adjacent
double loaded parking aisles.
            (2)   The length of parking courts shall not exceed a length
greater than one-half (1/2) the length of the lot where they are located.
            (3)   Parking courts shall be separated by structures or by a
landscape buffer of at least thirty feet (30').
         d.   Garages/Carports:
            (1)   Incorporating carports into exterior project walls adjacent
to streets is strongly discouraged.
            (2)   Provide a visual buffer between the fronts of carports and
residential units by use of planting screens and/or architectural features.
            (3)   Provide landscaping on exposed sides of carport or garage
structures.
         e.   Parking Within The Front Yard Building Setback: Parking may be
located within the required front yard if it is completely screened from the
street by either a landscaped hedge or a decorative, architectural screen wall,
integrated into the architecture of the building by use of similar materials or
accent treatments.
      7.   Connections Between Buildings: In multi-family developments with
three (3) or more buildings, pedestrian paths to facilitate circulation between
buildings shall be provided.
      8.   Access To Amenities: Provide a pedestrian path to facilitate access
between residential units and parking areas, recreational facilities,
mailboxes, common open space, and to connect the development to the townwide
trails system where a project is adjacent to the system.
      9.   Arrangement Of Open Space: Required common open space shall be
conveniently located for the majority of residents and private open spaces
shall be located near the units they serve.
      10.   Visibility: Multi-family developments shall have secure open space
areas and children's play areas that are visible from the units.
      11.   Location Of Amenities: Recreational amenities shall be located
adjacent to designated open space areas wherever possible.
      12.   Landscaped Areas:
         a.   Landscaping Considerations: Landscaping is used to frame, soften
and embellish the quality of the environment, to buffer units from noise or
undesirable views, to break up large expanses of parking, and to separate
frontage roads within the development from public streets. To accomplish these
design objectives, a landscape needs vertical elements. Trees and tall shrubs
are needed in addition to ground cover and can also be used to provide shading
and climatic cooling of nearby residential units.
         b.   Landscape For Screening And Privacy: Landscaping shall be used to
maximize the privacy of adjacent single-family residences. A minimum of twenty
percent (20%) of the trees used for screening purposes shall be twenty four
inch (24") box size when installed.
   C.   Multi-Family Architectural Design Guidelines:
      1.   Dwelling Unit Architecture:
         a.   General: New multi-family residential development shall relate to
adjacent single-family residential districts in the following ways:
            (1)   By stepping down the scale, height and density of buildings
at the edges of the development when surrounding neighborhoods are of lower
density or smaller scale. Step the building down at the ends or sides nearest
the single-family unit to a height approximately equal to that of the adjacent
single-family residence, or of typical single-family residences in the vicinity
if adjacent to an undeveloped single-family zoning district.
            (2)   By incorporating architectural elements and materials that
are similar to those used in the neighborhood.
         b.   Architectural Style: While there is no particular architectural
style required for multi-family residential structures, the focus shall be on
the development of a high quality residential environment that provides variety
and visual interest while still creating an overall unified image. Desert
appropriate architectural styles shall be used to blend the development into
the natural desert environment to the greatest extent possible. Desert
appropriate styles will respond to desert conditions such as sun, wind, heat
and cold. In selecting an architectural style, compatibility with surrounding
character, including compatible building style, form, size, color, materials
and roofline, shall be considered.
         c.   Architectural Unity And Variation: Within multi-family
developments containing several buildings, a common architectural theme among
the buildings must be evident so that a unified image is presented. Within the
unified image, each building should contain some identifying feature(s) that
sets it apart from other buildings in the development so that an occupant can
readily identify his/her building.
            (1)   Unified Development Image: An overall unified image in a
development with several buildings can be achieved through the use of common
elements and/or materials. Multi-family buildings in such a context shall
incorporate the following design principles:
               (A)   Building form, roofline and primary materials shall
represent a common theme throughout the development;
               (B)   A similar architectural character shall be provided on all
sides of a building. Repeat details on all sides of a building; make them
appear functional and real;
               (C)   Forms, colors, architectural details and landscape
materials shall be consistent throughout the development. Variations for the
purpose of establishing individuality among buildings within a group shall be
consistent with an overall palette of materials and colors;
               (D)   Building entries shall be integrated into the building
architecture. Upper decks, balconies, stair towers, utility closets and
mechanical screening shall be integrated into the building architecture rather
than add on elements to a finished facade or roof;
               (E)   Interior and exterior storage areas shall be integrated
into the building design to make them compatible with the building
architecture;
               (F)   Massing and scale.
Compatibility with adjacent single-family residential development: Because
multi-family developments are frequently taller than one story, their bulk can
be imposing to surrounding uses, especially single-family residential uses. The
scale of multi-family developments shall be considered within the context of
their surroundings. This section is not intended to limit two-story buildings
but to provide transitions in rooflines and articulation of buildings and
rooflines. The scale of multi-family structures shall relate to adjacent
single-family residential structures in a manner consistent with this code.
            (2)   Mitigating Mass And Scale Of Unarticulated Building Planes:
               (A)   Blank end walls are not allowed. Instead, end walls shall
be given some form of articulation or architectural treatment.
               (B)   Balconies, porches, patios and chimneys shall be
integrated into multi-family structures to break up large wall masses, and to
offset floor setbacks.
               (C)   Long barrackslike multi-family structures shall be avoided
through the use of separations, changes in roof plane, horizontal offsets, and
the inclusion of elements such as balconies, varied floor elevations, awnings,
porches and patios.
            (3)   Support Facilities, Compatibility With Primary Structures:
Support facilities such as laundry facilities, recreation buildings, sales/
lease offices or temporary sales offices within multi-family developments shall
be consistent in architectural design, form, colors and materials with the
residential structures.
            (4)   Detached Garages: Detached garages shall be designed as an
integral part of the architecture of projects and shall be similar in style,
form, scale, color, detailing and materials to the primary structure.
            (5)   Dwelling Unit Access And Entries:
               (A)   Use In Providing Facade Articulation: Entry areas shall be
utilized to articulate building faces through recesses, covered porches, or
other architectural treatments in such a manner as to increase the sense of
arrival.
               (B)   Provide Shelter: Entries shall provide shelter from
natural elements such as sun, rain and wind.
               (C)   Shared Entries: Access points to residential units shall
be clustered in groups of four (4) or less. The use of long, monotonous
balconies and corridors resulting in a "motel" type of appearance is
discouraged.
               (D)   Visibility: Whenever possible, entrances to individual
residential units shall be plainly visible from the parking areas that serve
them.
               (E)   Maximize Privacy: Entries to individual units shall be
spaced as far apart as possible to maximize privacy.
            (6)   Roof: The pitch and form of roofs are a visible community
feature. A range of roof forms and roof pitches can add an appealing visual
impact to the community streetscape.
               (A)   Roof Overhangs: Broad roof overhangs when compatible with
the basic architectural theme of the structure are recommended to produce
interest and to respond to climatic conditions, especially when used in
combination with courtyards, porch enclosures, balconies and recesses.
               (B)   Roof Materials: The roofing material shall be constructed
of nonreflective fire retardant materials and exhibit muted earth tones.
            (7)   Exterior Stairs, Integrate With Building Architecture:
               (A)   In new buildings, simple, clean, bold projections of
stairways integrated into the building architecture are encouraged to
complement the architectural massing and form of the multi-family structure.
               (B)   Stairways integrated into the building architecture are
encouraged in order to provide protection from natural elements such as sun and
wind.
               (C)   Where modifications to existing multi-family residential
structures include the addition of stairways, thin looking, open metal,
prefabricated metal stairways shall be avoided. Instead, materials similar to
the exterior of the building shall be used to architecturally link the stairway
to the building.
            (8)   Walls And Fences: Fencing requirements shall remain flexible,
but installations shall take advantage of the natural features of the site like
topography and vegetation.
               (A)   Privacy Screening: Closed privacy fencing should be
limited to the immediate area around the private open space areas or
outbuildings. If wood fencing is proposed, the fencing shall be designed to
withstand the frequent high desert winds. Chainlink is not permitted.
               (B)   Private Courtyards: Private open space courtyards
utilizing decorative walls providing shelter from wind are strongly encouraged.
               (C)   Materials Within Front And Street Side Yard: All walls and
fences within the front yard or street side yard setback area shall be
constructed of decorative materials such as split face or slump stone block,
river rock or other similar materials that complement the materials used on the
building or as approved by the commission.
               (D)   Property Line Fencing: Property line walls and fences
shall be constructed of decorative materials such as rail fencing or split face
block or slumpstone, or incorporate decorative enhancements such as caps or
pilasters. Property line fencing with unadorned solid wood or cinder block is
prohibited.
               (E)   Articulation: Where any solid wall or fence exceeds forty
feet (40') in length, the wall or fence shall be visibly articulated by
pilasters or changes in the wall plane such as insets for plantings. Such
articulation shall occur at a minimum of forty foot (40') intervals. All walls
shall incorporate decorative caps.
      2.   Building Color:
         a.   Colors should be muted and lighter in value. Primary, bright, and
fluorescent colors shall be avoided.
   D.   Multi-Family Infill In Single-Family Neighborhoods: New multi- family
developments shall be integrated into an existing single- family neighborhood
so that they are compatible with adjacent structures and fit within the context
of the existing neighborhood. Below are additional standards for these
developments:
      1.   Architectural Compatibility: New multi-family developments in
existing single-family neighborhoods shall incorporate the architectural
characteristics and maintain the scale of existing single-family structures on
the site and on adjacent property; for example, building height, window and
door detailing, facade decoration, materials, color, roof style, roof pitch,
porches, etc.
      2.   Front Setbacks: Front setbacks for new multi-family developments in
existing single-family neighborhoods shall be equal to or greater than the
average front setbacks for the two (2) adjacent properties. If one or both of
the adjacent properties are vacant, then the average front setback shall be
calculated on the next adjacent occupied properties.
      3.   Site Design: The site design of new multi-family developments in
existing single-family neighborhoods shall reflect the development patterns and
scale of development of the surrounding neighborhood and any existing on site
single-family structures, in terms of vehicular and pedestrian circulation,
access, parking and landscaping. Any substandard conditions existing on the
site shall be brought up to standard with the new development. (Ord. 253, 12-
16-2014)
9.08.080: PLANNED RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to provide standards for
applicants that desire to develop under the provisions of
chapter 9.67, "Planned Development Permits", of this title. The standards in
this section are intended to promote a more efficient use of the land and to
create a more desirable and affordable living environment by providing greater
design flexibility than would be possible through the strict application of
standard development regulations required by a zoning district.
   B.   Applicability: The provisions in this section apply to development in
any residential zoning district in compliance with the application requirements
identified in
chapter 9.67, "Planned Development Permits", of this title. Strict compliance
with the purpose and intent of the general plan shall be required. Only uses
allowed in the zoning district for which the planned development is proposed
shall be allowed.
   C.   Development Standards:
      1.   Size: A minimum site of five (5) acres shall be required for a
planned residential development.
      2.   Density: The total density of a planned development shall be
determined by the zoning district applicable to the subject property. Increased
densities may be granted by the review authority through the bonus density or
transfer of density authorized by the general plan and implemented by this
development code under the housing incentives plan in
chapter 9.47, "Density Bonus", of this title, or a specific plan. However,
density increases shall not be granted for that portion of a planned
development for which only a preliminary development plan has been approved.
Parcel sizes smaller than those required by the zoning district may be approved
for a planned development provided the overall parcel density is not exceeded,
except as otherwise allowed by this development code and/or the general plan.
The maximum unit allowable dwelling densities shall be as follows:
      TABLE 2-14
      TRANSFER OF DENSITY
 
Maximum Unit                   Slope
Allowable Dwelling Density 1
4.0 dwelling units per acre       0% - less than 15%
2.0 dwelling units per acre       15% - less than 30%
1.0 dwelling unit per 3 acres     30% - less than 40%
1.0 dwelling unit per 10 acres    40% or greater
 
   Note:
      1.    The density shall not be more than the maximum allowed by the
zoning district.
         a.   Transfer Of Density: A one hundred percent (100%) transfer of the
density indicated on the general plan official zoning district shall be allowed
within a planned development project, provided all other performance criteria
are met. The maximum allowable density transfers shall be determined by the
table above. This transfer of density may include a transfer of density from
adjacent property for which development restrictions in favor of the planned
development project have been obtained.
            (1)   To be eligible for density transfer, adjacent private lands
shall meet the following criteria:
               (A)   Private lands from which the density is being transferred
shall be free of hazards or other physical constraints that prohibit the
construction of residential dwellings.
               (B)   Private lands from which the density is being transferred
shall be shown on the general plan as developable for residential dwellings.
            (2)   Open space within the project that has been created as a
result of a density transfer shall be common open space. However, in those
circumstances when it is infeasible or impracticable for a private organization
to adequately maintain and preserve the land as open space, the land may be
dedicated to the public for open space purposes.
            (3)   Transferable density on slopes within a fire safety overlay
shall be determined by the formulas in section
9.17.050, "Fire Safety Development Standards", of this article 2.
         b.   Bonus Density:
            (1)   An additional bonus in dwelling unit density, up to ten
percent (10%) above that indicated in the zoning district for the area, may be
granted by the review authority provided one of the following criteria is met:
               (A)   A publicly valuable resource is provided, preserved, or
enhanced that would otherwise require the expenditure of public monies.
               (B)   A public or quasi-public feature is provided above and
beyond the normal expectations.
               (C)   An amenity, convenience, or excellence in design is
provided above and beyond normal expectations.
               (D)   The granting of density bonuses shall further the purpose
and intent of the planned development provisions of this development code and
the general plan.
            (2)   Density bonuses identified in state planning and zoning law,
including section 65915 et seq., shall also be considered.
      3.   Accessory Uses In Planned Residential Developments (PRDs):
         a.   RS District: Accessory uses allowed in the RS (single-family
residential) zoning district shall be allowed in a planned residential
development, provided that the accessory uses are compatible with the approved
PRD development plan.
         b.   Horses: When the underlying zoning district allows the keeping of
horses, and where the density of a planned residential development project does
not exceed four (4) dwelling units per acre, horses shall be allowed in a PRD
project as follows:
            (1)   On parcels twenty thousand (20,000) square feet or greater
subject to the regulations of the RS (single-family residential) zoning
district.
            (2)   Where parcels are less than twenty thousand (20,000) square
feet, horses shall be allowed subject to the following conditions:
               (A)   Horses shall be clustered onto common parcels.
               (B)   The maximum density of horses shall not exceed four (4)
horses per gross acre of common parcel area.
               (C)   Standards and regulations relating to keeping of horses in
section
9.08.020 of this chapter, animal keeping, shall also apply.
               (D)   Maintenance and management of the clustered facilities
shall be provided by the property owners' association.
         c.   Phased Development: In a phased development, safeguards shall be
required in the form of easements or bonds or other commitments for open space
requirements that will protect the integrity of the total project.
         d.   Subdivision: When a tentative subdivision map is filed with a
planned development project, before recordation of the final subdivision map,
the following items shall be filed with the appropriate agency:
            (1)   Documentation of easements, covenants, deeds, and property
owners' association bylaws, restrictions, and articles of incorporation.
            (2)   Sureties and performance bonds covering open space areas,
dedicated public improvements, and other items as determined by the review
authority. The amount of the performance bonds shall be reviewed annually by
the appropriate agency.
   D.   Design Standards:
      1.   Authority Of Commission To Alter Standards: Unless specifically
changed within this section, adopted town ordinances, standards, and policies
shall apply to a planned development project, including those identified in
this development code and the general plan. The commission may alter adopted
standards, where, in the commission's opinion, the altered standards would more
adequately serve the purposes and intent of the planned development provisions
of this development code.
      2.   Circulation And Parking:
         a.   Vehicular Circulation Pattern: The vehicular circulation pattern
shall be designed to:
            (1)   Provide adequate vehicular access to and within the project,
in compliance with adopted town standards.
            (2)   Coordinate with external transportation networks in terms of
location and loads.
            (3)   Integrate with the natural landscape and, where possible,
parallel the natural drainage system.
            (4)   The noise levels from vehicular traffic shall comply with the
standards outlined in section
9.34.080, "Noise", of this title.
            (5)   The planned development project, and each phase of the
project, shall have two (2) points of vehicular ingress and egress from
surrounding streets, one of which may be emergency only, if approved by the
fire department.
            (6)   Private streets are acceptable if they are built to town
standards and are inspected by the town. However, rights of way shall not be
accepted by the town nor shall private streets be accepted as part of the
town's maintained road system.
         b.   Pedestrian Circulation Pattern: The pedestrian circulation
pattern shall be designed so that:
            (1)   It is separated from vehicular traffic where possible and it
discourages pedestrian crossing of the vehicular network, except at controlled
points that are designed for pedestrian safety.
            (2)   Hard surfaced, safely lighted pedestrian access to common
open space, recreational areas, community facilities, and other logical
terminal points shall be provided.
         c.   Common Off Street Parking Areas: Common off street parking areas
shall be designed so that:
            (1)   They provide adequate, convenient, well marked, and safely
lighted parking.
            (2)   With the exception of enclosed parking structures, they shall
contain appropriate landscaping to minimize the effect of large areas of
asphalt or concrete.
         d.   Parking Spaces Required Per Unit: Two (2) parking spaces per
dwelling unit shall be provided. Tandem parking shall not be allowed. Guest
parking, either on street or in common parking areas, shall be provided at a
ratio of one space per two (2) dwelling units.
      3.   Open Space:
         a.   Open Space Defined: For the purposes of this section, open space
within a planned development shall be the total area of land or water within
the boundaries of a planned development, designed and intended for use and
enjoyment as open space areas.
            (1)   Open space within a planned development shall include the
following:
               (A)   Area of the site not covered by structures, paved areas or
accessory structures, except recreational structures.
               (B)   Land that is accessible and available to all occupants of
the development for which the space is intended.
            (2)   Open space within a planned development shall not include:
               (A)   Proposed and existing street rights of way and private
streets.
               (B)   Open parking areas, driveways.
               (C)   School sites.
               (D)   Commercial, industrial, or office areas, and their
structures, accessory structures, parking, and loading facilities.
         b.   Minimum Open Space Required For Planned Development: A
residential planned development project shall have a minimum of forty percent
(40%) private and common open space, not including balcony area.
         c.   Minimum Open Space Required For Each Dwelling Unit: Each dwelling
unit shall have a minimum contiguous private open space area as follows:
            (1)   Ground floor: Two hundred twenty five (225) square feet.
            (2)   Upper story dwelling without ground floor: Sixty (60) square
feet.
         d.   Management Of Common Facilities: Provisions for the maintenance
and management of the common open space and common facilities shall be reviewed
and approved by the commission. The approval shall be based on the following
criteria:
            (1)   The applicant shall establish a property owners' association
before the selling of a parcel or the occupancy of a dwelling unit.
            (2)   The property owners' association bylaws, restrictions, and
articles of incorporation shall include the necessary regulations required by
the federal housing administration. Other standards shall be approved by the
town.
      4.   Site Resource Utilization:
         a.   The planned development shall be designed and developed to
minimize the cutting of trees, disturbance of ground cover, cut and fill work,
drainage alteration, and hillside development. Removal of trees shall be in
compliance with town permit procedures.
         b.   New earthwork and exposed slopes shall be suitably stabilized in
compliance with
 chapter 9.20 of this article 2, hillside grading. Scarred and erosion prone
areas shall be stabilized with appropriate planting.
      5.   Site And Structure Relationship:
         a.   The spacing of structures shall be governed by the requirements
for adequate light and air, proper access, fire regulations, and the need for
visual and auditory privacy.
         b.   Whenever possible, dwelling units shall be arranged to take
advantage of views and vistas.
         c.   The planned development shall be designed to minimize the
likelihood of criminal activity by:
            (1)   Minimizing those areas that are neither clearly private nor
public.
            (2)   Planting landscaping to ensure that maximum observation is
obtained while providing the desired degree of aesthetics.
         d.   Structure height, bulk, and coverage are regulated only to the
extent that ensures that they meet the performance criteria identified in
subsection C, "Development Standards", of this section.
      6.   Perimeter:
         a.   Adjacent properties to the planned development shall be protected
from adverse influences of traffic, land use, structure scale, and density by
the combined use of screening, setbacks, and land use location.
         b.   Perimeter planning and coordination are required to ensure
continuity in the community facilities and services. The applicant shall
demonstrate that the development proposal can be adequately served by community
facilities and services without undue public expenditure.
         c.   Planned development projects that are within fire safety (FS)
overlay shall develop perimeter areas in compliance with section
9.17.050, "Fire Safety Development Standards", of this article 2. (Ord. 253,
12-16-2014)
9.08.090: RESIDENTIAL/SOCIAL CARE FACILITIES:
   A.   Purpose: This section provides standards for the establishment and
operation of residential/social care facilities.
   B.   Applicability: The standards in this section apply to residential/
social care facilities where allowed in residential districts, in addition to
compliance with the standards in
chapter 9.07, "Residential And Hillside Reserve Districts", of this article 2.
Facilities with six (6) or fewer persons do not require a conditional use
permit and are allowed where a single-family dwelling is allowed, however, such
facilities shall comply with the general requirements.
   C.   General Requirements:
      1.   Applicable Zoning District Development Standards: Each social care
facility shall conform to the property development standards for the zoning
district in which it is located.
      2.   Separation: Social care facilities shall not be located within three
hundred feet (300') of another similar facility.
      3.   Applicable Health And Safety Regulations: Social care facilities
shall be operated in compliance with applicable State and local health and
safety regulations.
      4.   Required Permits And Licenses: Social care facilities shall be in
conformance with the California Building Code. A certificate of occupancy shall
be obtained from the Building and Safety Division before occupancy of social
care facilities.
      5.   Fire Department Requirements: Each social care facility shall
provide fire extinguishers and smoke detector devices and shall meet all
standards established by the Fire Chief.
   D.   Development Standards: In addition to the general requirements
residential/social care facilities with seven (7) or more persons shall comply
with the following standards:
      1.   The site shall be located on or adjacent to a paved street where
required street improvements can connect.
      2.   Building setback of fifty feet (50') from all property lines as
required when developing in or adjacent to a Single-Family Land Use District;
otherwise the underlying building setbacks of the land use district shall
apply.
      3.   Common outdoor recreational amenities shall be provided subject to
review and approval by the commission.
      4.   The heights of any proposed structure(s) shall be compatible with
that of the surrounding development.
      5.   The architectural design of facilities shall be compatible and in
scale with the surrounding development.
      6.   Parking areas for facilities in Residential Land Use Districts that
accommodate more than ten (10) vehicles shall be divided into a series of
smaller parking areas by landscaping and by offsetting portions of lots in ways
that effectively reduce the visual impacts of large parking areas.
      7.   Access drives and parking aisles shall be kept at a maximum distance
possible from any adjacent residential units. (Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
CHAPTER 9.09
COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS
SECTION:
9.09.010: Purpose
9.09.020: Permitted Uses And Permit Requirements
9.09.030: Development Standards
9.09.040: Projections And Encroachments Into Required Setback Areas
9.09.050: Native Landscape Documentation Package
9.09.010: PURPOSE:
This chapter lists the land uses that may be allowed within the commercial
zoning districts listed in section
 9.05.030 of this article 2, determines the type of planning permit/approval
required for each use, and provides basic standards for site layout and
building size.
Properties located within the Mixed Use Commercial (C-MU) Zoning District are
subject to the regulations and development standards of the General Commercial
(C-G) Zoning District until such time as mixed use commercial (C-MU)
regulations and development standards are adopted by the Council. (Ord. 253,
12-16-2014)
9.09.020: PERMITTED USES AND PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
Table 2-15 of this section identifies the uses of land allowed by this
Development Code in each commercial zoning district established by
chapter 9.05, "Zoning Districts And Zoning Map", of this article 2.
All uses listed in the following table are subject to the applicable standards
of this Development Code and the permit requirements referenced in the "Notes
And Other Regulations" column and in subsection
9.06.030B, "Permit Requirements", of this article 2.
Pursuant to subsection
9.06.030A3, "Similar And Compatible Use May Be Allowed", of this article 2, the
Director may determine that a proposed use is permitted, providing that the
Director makes the required findings that the proposed use is similar,
compatible and consistent with the uses described in the table, the purposes,
and the General Plan.
The following land uses shall be permitted, pursuant to the conditions
stipulated:
   A.   Accessory uses including parking lots and structures, accessory signs,
and exterior storage which is fully fenced and screened with a solid fence and
where no storage is visible above the fence. Accessory uses and structures
shall comply with all requirements of this Code.
   B.   Commercial land uses proposed to operate from existing structures shall
be permitted by right in the following cases:
      1.   The structure has historically been utilized in a fashion similar to
the proposed use.
      2.   There are no structural off street, on site improvements or lack
thereof which pose an immediate threat to the health, safety or general welfare
of the Town.
      3.   There are no additions or alterations to the square footage of the
existing structure. (Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
   TABLE 2-15
   PERMITTED LAND USES AND PERMIT REQUIREMENTS FOR COMMERCIAL ZONING DISTRICTS
Zoning districts:
C-C: Community commercial C-O: Office commercial      C-N: Neighborhood
                                                      commercial
C-G: General commercial   C-MU: Mixed use commercial   
Permit required:
CUP: Conditional use      PD: Planned development     SUP: Special use permit
permit                    review
HOP: Home occupation      S: Specific plan            TSEP: Temporary special
permit                                                event permit
NP: Not allowed           SPL: Special license permit TUP: Temporary use permit
P: Permitted              SPR: Site plan and design    
                          review
Type Of Use Permit Required By Zoning District Notes And Other Regulations
            C-C C-G C-O C-MU C-N
                       Permit Required By Zoning District Notes And Other
Type Of Use            C-C  C-G  C-O  C-MU C-N            Regulations

Residential:                                          
 Mixed use            NP   S    NP   SPR  NP              
  development
 Single-family        NP   NP   NP   NP   NP              
  dwelling unit
 Single room          NP   CUP  NP   CUP  CUP             
  occupancy housing
Care uses:                                                 
                                                          See section
 Child daycare center NP   CUP  NP   CUP  CUP            9.14.020, "Child
                                                          Daycare Centers", of
                                                          this article 2
 Childcare (small     NP   CUP  NP   SPR  CUP
  family)                                                 Single-family
                                                          residences located in
                                                          the commercial land
                                                          use districts are
  Childcare (large                                        subject to the
 family)              NP   CUP  NP   CUP  CUP            standards specified
                                                          in section
                                                          9.08.040 of this
                                                          article 2

                                                          Permitted for single-
                                                          family residences
                                                          located in the
 Home occupation      HOP  HOP  HOP  HOP  HOP            commercial land use
                                                          districts pursuant to
                                                           chapter 9.50, "Home
                                                          Occupation Permits",
                                                          of this title
                                                          Including
 Homeless shelter     NP   NP   NP   NP   NP             transitional and
                                                          supportive uses
  Social care,                                            Including, but not
 congregate care,     NP   SPR  NP   SPR  SPR            limited to, elderly
  convalescent care                                       care and sober living
  facilities                                              facilities
Agriculture, animal
related, and open                                          
space uses:
  Animal care facility
 (with exterior       CUP  CUP  NP   NP   CUP
  kennel, pens and                                        Including, but not
  runs)                                                   limited to, animal
  Animal care facility                                    hospitals,
  (without exterior                                       veterinarian, pet
 kennel, pens and     SPR  SPR  SPR  SPR  SPR            stores, and grooming
  runs)

 Community gardens    SPR  SPR  SPR  SPR  SPR             
 Equestrian facility  CUP  CUP  NP   NP   CUP             
 Feed and tack        CUP  CUP  NP   NP   CUP             
                                                          Including, but not
 Horticulture/        SPR  SPR  NP   NP   SPR            limited to, crop
  agriculture                                             production, orchards,
                                                          and vineyards
 Kennels (over 15     NP   NP   NP   NP   SUP             
  animals)
 Livestock operations NP   NP   NP   NP   NP              
 Natural resources    NP   NP   NP   NP   NP              
  development
 Nature preserve      SPR  SPR  SPR  SPR  SPR             
  Nursery/garden
 supply (with outdoor SPR  SPR  SPR  CUP  CUP             
  display)
  Nursery/garden
 supply (without      SPR  SPR  SPR  SPR  SPR             
  outdoor display)
Retail commercial                                          
uses:
                                                          See
 Adult oriented       NP   CUP  NP   NP   NP             chapter 9.52, "Adult
  business                                                Oriented Business",
                                                          of this title
 Antique/secondhand   SPR  SPR  NP   SPR  SPR             
  stores
  Appliance sales and
 home goods (no       SPR  SPR  SPR  SPR  NP              
  repair)
  Auto and vehicle
 sales and rentals    CUP  CUP  NP   CUP  CUP             
  and parts sales
  Boat and
 recreational vehicle CUP  CUP  NP   CUP  CUP             
  sales
  Building and
 landscape materials  SPR  SPR  SPR  CUP  CUP             
  sales (indoor)
  Building and
 landscape materials  CUP  CUP  NP   CUP  NP              
  sales (outdoor)
  Construction and
 heavy equipment      NP   CUP  NP   NP   NP              
  sales and rentals
 Convenience store    CUP  CUP  CUP  CUP  CUP             
                                                          See
  Farmers' market/arts                                     chapter 9.38,
 and crafts events    TSEP TSEP TSEP TSEP TSEP           "Temporary Special
                                                          Events", of this
                                                          title
                                                          See section
                                                          9.14.040, "Gas Or
 Fuel/propane dealer  NP   NP   NP   NP   NP             Other Fueling
                                                          Stations", of this
                                                          article 2
  Grocery,
 supermarket,         SPR  SPR  SPR  SPR  SPR             
  specialty food
  store, drugstore
 Manufactured home    NP   NP   NP   NP   NP              
  sales
 Pawnshop             SPR  SPR  NP   NP   NP              
  Retail store (less
 than 80,000 square   SPR  SPR  SPR  SPR  SPR             
  feet)
  Retail store (80,000
 or greater square    SPR  SPR  CUP  CUP  CUP             
  feet)
                                                          See
  Seasonal holiday                                        chapter 9.38,
 sales facilities     TSEP TSEP TSEP TSEP TSEP           "Temporary Special
                                                          Events", of this
                                                          title
  Shopping center
 (neighborhood,       CUP  CUP  CUP  CUP  CUP             
  community, or
  regional)
  Swap meet, outdoor                                      See section
 market, auction yard NP   CUP  NP   NP   NP             9.14.080, "Swap
  (permanent)                                             Meets", of this
                                                          article 2
 Warehouse retail     CUP  SPR  CUP  NP   CUP             
Business, financial,                                       
and professional:
 ATM                  P    P    P    P    P               
  Financial
 institution and      SPR  SPR  SPR  SPR  SPR             
  related service
 Laboratory           SPR  SPR  SPR  SPR  SPR             
  Office (business,
 professional,        SPR  SPR  SPR  SPR  SPR             
  corporate, medical)
Eating and drinking                                        
establishments:
                                                          Including, but not
  Bakery (retail),                                        limited to, ice cream
 coffee shop and      SPR  SPR  SPR  SPR  SPR            shops, frozen yogurt
  similar uses                                            shops, and candy/
                                                          sweet shops
 Bakery (wholesale)   SPR  SPR  SPR  CUP  NP              
  Bar, lounge,
 nightclub, tavern,   CUP  CUP  CUP  CUP  CUP             
  and pool hall
 Catering service     SPR  SPR  SPR  SPR  SPR             
  Fast food (with
 drive-through,       CUP  CUP  CUP  CUP  CUP            See section
  delivery)                                               9.14.030, "Drive- Up/
                                                          Drive-Through
  Fast food (without                                      Establishments", of
 drive-through,       CUP  SPR  SPR  SPR  CUP            this article 2
  delivery)

 Full service         SPR  SPR  SPR  SPR  SPR             
  restaurant
Commercial service                                         
uses:
 Ambulance service    SPR  SPR  SPR  NP   NP              
  Appliance sales,
 service, repair, and SPR  SPR  SPR  SPR  SPR             
  rental
                                                          See section
  Automobile gas                                          9.14.040, "Gas Or
 station              SPR  SPR  SPR  CUP  CUP            Other Fueling
                                                          Stations", of this
                                                          article 2
  Automobile service/
 repair (major        NP   CUP  NP   NP   NP              
  repair/body work)
  Automobile service/
 repair (minor repair CUP  SPR  CUP  CUP  CUP             
  and maintenance)
 Automobile washing   CUP  CUP  CUP  CUP  CUP             
  (car wash)
  Automobile washing
 (car wash)           P    P    P    P    P               
  (fundraising,
  temporary)
  Barber, beauty shop,
 and other similar    SPR  SPR  SPR  SPR  SPR             
  personal service
  uses
  Equipment sales,
 service, repair, and CUP  CUP  CUP  NP   CUP             
  rental
  Fitness center (less
 than 2,000 square    SPR  SPR  SPR  SPR  SPR             
  feet)
  Fitness center (more
 than 2,000 square    CUP  CUP  CUP  NP   CUP             
  feet)
 Fortune telling and  SPR  SPR  SPR  CUP  SPR             
  related service
  Funeral service
 (excluding           NP   SPR  CUP  NP   NP              
  crematorium)
  Funeral service
 (including           NP   CUP  CUP  NP   NP              
  crematorium)
 Laundry and dry      SPR  SPR  SPR  SPR  SPR             
  cleaning
 Locksmith            SPR  SPR  SPR  SPR  SPR             
 Maintenance and      NP   CUP  NP   NP   NP              
  repair (major)
 Maintenance and      SPR  SPR  CUP  CUP  CUP             
  repair (minor)
                                                          See title 5,
  Massage                                                  chapter 5.10,
 establishment        SPL  SPL  SPL  SPL  SPL            "Massage Services And
                                                          Establishments", of
                                                          this code
 Printing and         SPR  SPR  SPR  SPR  SPR             
  duplication services
                                                          Less than 2,000
  Studio (dance,                                          square feet (SPR for
 music, martial arts, SPR  SPR  SPR  SPR/ SPR            C-MU)
  artists)                            CUP                 More than 2,000
                                                          square feet (CUP for
                                                          C-MU)
 Tattoo and piercing  SPR  SPR  SPR  SPR  SPR             
Commercial recreation:                                     
 Amusement arcade or  NP   CUP  NP   NP   NP              
  park
 Campgrounds          NP   NP   NP   NP   NP              
                                                          See
  Carnivals/circuses/                                      chapter 9.38,
 festivals/fairs      TSEP TSEP TSEP TSEP TSEP           "Temporary Special
                                                          Events", of this
                                                          title
                                                          See
  Concerts, open air                                      chapter 9.38,
 theaters, outdoor    TSEP TSEP TSEP TSEP TSEP           "Temporary Special
  entertainment events                                    Events", of this
                                                          title
  Game arcade,
 internet cafe, and   CUP  CUP  NP   CUP  CUP             
  similar businesses
 Golf course          SPR  SPR  SPR  SPR  CUP             
 Hookah lounge        NP   CUP  NP   NP   CUP             
 Parks/recreation     SPR  SPR  SPR  SPR  SPR             
  facilities
 Private clubs and    CUP  SPR  CUP  NP   CUP             
  lodges
  Recreation and
 entertainment        CUP  CUP  CUP  CUP  CUP             
  (commercial indoor
  and outdoor)
                                                          See subsection
  Recreational vehicle                                    9.08.060B,
 park                 NP   NP   NP   NP   NP             "Recreational Vehicle
                                                          Parks", of this
                                                          article 2
Industry,
manufacturing and                                          
processing,
wholesaling:
  Construction/
 contractor storage   NP   CUP  NP   NP   NP              
  yard
                                                          See section
 Hazardous waste      NP   NP   NP   NP   NP             9.34.110, "Hazardous
  operations                                              Materials", of this
                                                          title
 Manufacturing        NP   NP   NP   NP   NP              
  operations
  Motor vehicle
 storage/impound      NP   NP   NP   NP   NP              
  facility
  Recycling facility
 (processing          NP   NP   NP   NP   NP             See section
  facility)                                               9.14.070, "Recycling
  Recycling facility                                      Facilities", of this
 (small collection    SUP  SUP  SUP  SUP  SUP            article 2
  facility)

 Research and         SPR  SPR  SPR  CUP  SPR             
  development
 Salvage facility     NP   NP   NP   NP   NP              
                                                          See section
  Storage -                                                9.14.060, "Mini-/
 ministorage          NP   NP   NP   NP   NP             Self- Storage
  (personal storage)                                      Facilities", of this
                                                          article 2
 Storage (outdoor     NP   NP   NP   NP   NP              
  vehicles storage)
 Wholesaling and      NP   NP   NP   NP   NP              
  distribution
Transportation,
communications, and                                        
infrastructure:
                                                          Including, but not
                                                          limited to, radio and
                                                          television stations
 Communication        CUP  CUP  NP   NP   CUP            or towers, satellite
  facility                                                receiving stations,
                                                          but not wireless
                                                          telecommunication
                                                          facilities
                                                          See
                                                           chapter 9.33,
                                                          "Parking And Loading
 Parking lot          SPR  SPR  SPR  SPR  SPR            Regulations", of this
                                                          title. Accessory or
                                                          incidental to the
                                                          primary use of the
                                                          same property
 Public/government    SPR  SPR  SPR  CUP  CUP             
  facilities
 Public safety uses   SPR  SPR  SPR  SPR  SPR             
  (permanent)
                                                          See
  Solar energy systems                                     chapter 9.42,
 (accessory)          P    P    P    P    P              "Accessory Solar
                                                          Energy Systems", of
                                                          this title
  Solar energy systems                                    See
 (utility grade/      NP   NP   NP   NP   NP              chapter 9.46 of this
  primary use)                                            title
  Transmission utility
 lines, pipelines,    CUP  CUP  CUP  CUP  CUP             
  and control stations
 Utilities (major)    CUP  CUP  CUP  CUP  CUP             
                                                          See
  Wind energy system                                      chapter 9.43,
 (accessory)          SPR  SPR  SPR  SPR  SPR            "Accessory Wind
                                                          Energy Systems", of
                                                          this title
  Wind energy system                                      See
 (utility grade/      NP   NP   NP   NP   NP             chapter 9.46 of this
  primary use)                                            title
  Wireless                                                Pursuant to
 telecommunication    CUP  CUP  CUP  CUP  CUP             chapter 9.44 of this
  facilities                                              title
Other uses:                                                
  Cemeteries,
 including pet        NP   CUP  NP   NP   NP              
  cemeteries
  Churches, religious
 assembly, and other  CUP  CUP  CUP  CUP  CUP             
  public assembly
 Conference centers   CUP  CUP  CUP  NP   NP              
  and group camps
 Correctional         NP   NP   NP   NP   NP              
  institution
                                                          See
  Emergency facilities                                     chapter 9.39,
 (temporary)          TUP  TUP  TUP  TUP  TUP            "Temporary Uses And
                                                          Structures", of this
                                                          title
  Hospitals/medical/
 rehabilitation       CUP  CUP  CUP  CUP  CUP             
  centers/clinics
 Hotels and motels    SPR  SPR  CUP  SPR  CUP             
  Marijuana
  dispensaries,
  marijuana                                               Pursuant to
 cultivation,         NP   NP   NP   NP   NP             chapter 9.53 of this
  marijuana                                               title
  deliveries,
  additional
  prohibited marijuana
  Museum, library, art
 gallery, outdoor     SPR  SPR  SPR  SPR  SPR             
  exhibit
  Schools (private,
 vocational, charter, CUP  CUP  CUP  CUP  CUP             
  and other)
                                                          See
  Temporary special                                        chapter 9.38,
 events               TSEP TSEP TSEP TSEP TSEP           "Temporary Special
                                                          Events", of this
                                                          title
                                                          See
  Temporary structures                                    chapter 9.39,
 and uses             TUP  TUP  TUP  TUP  TUP            "Temporary Uses And
                                                          Structures", of this
                                                          title
 
(Ord. 253, 12-16-2014; amd. Ord. 268, 7-18-2017; Ord. 297, - - ; Ord. 320, 11-
5-2024)
9.09.030: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
Subdivisions, new land uses and structures, and alterations to existing land
uses and structures shall be designed, constructed, and established in
compliance with the requirements in table 2-16 of this section, in addition to
the applicable standards (e.g., landscaping, parking and loading, etc.) in
article 3, "Development Standards", of this title.
   TABLE 2-16
   COMMERCIAL ZONING DISTRICTS DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
Development Feature Requirements By Zoning District1
                    C-C C-G C-O C-MU C-N
Development        Requirements By Zoning District1
Feature            C-C        C-G        C-O        C-MU          C-N
Minimum lot size2  See map suffix3
                   1 acre4    5 acres4   1 acre4    1 acre4       1 acre4
Minimum lot        W: 120 ft. W: 120 ft. W: 120 ft. W: 120 ft.    W: 120 ft.
dimensions (W:     D: 120 ft. D: 120 ft. D: 120 ft. D: 120 ft.    D: 120 ft.
width, D: depth)
Maximum lot
dimensions (width  1:3        1:3        1:3        1:3           1:3
to depth)
                   Minimum setbacks required unless different setbacks are
Setbacks:          delineated on final map, parcel map, composite development
                   plan, or are allowed pursuant to section XX.XXX
 Front            15 ft.     15 ft.     15 ft.     15 ft.        25 ft.
 Side5            10 ft.     0 ft.      10 ft.     0 ft.         10 ft.
 Rear6            10 ft.     0 ft.      10 ft.     0 ft.         10 ft.
 Street side      15 ft.     15 ft.     15 ft.     15 ft.        25 ft.
Maximum floor area Maximum allowed floor area ratio (FAR): floor area/lot area
ratio (FAR)        0.50       0.50       1.0        0.50          0.50
Dwelling units/    NP8        NP8        NP         Up to 40 with NP8
acre                                                specific plan
                   Maximum percentage of the total lot area that may be covered
Lot coverage       by structures and impervious surfaces
                   60%        60%        60%        60%           40%
Height limit       40 ft.     40 ft.     40 ft.     40 ft.        35 ft.
Minimum district   5 acres    5 acres    5 acres    5 acres       5 acres
size
                   See article 3, "Development Standards", of this title,
                   including the following standards:
                   • Dedications and infrastructure improvement standards -
                   chapter 9.30 of this title
                   • Landscaping and native plant protection - section
                   9.09.050 of this chapter
                   • Performance standards -
                   chapter 9.34 of this title relating to avoiding adverse
                   impact to adjoining properties relating to fire, explosive,
                   or other hazards; noise or vibration; smoke, dust, odor or
Other applicable   other form of air pollution; heat, cold, dampness;
standards          electrical or other disturbance
                   • Property maintenance standards -
                   chapter 9.35 of this title
                   • Signs -
                    chapter 9.36 of this title
                   • Solar energy systems -
                   chapter 9.46 of this title
                   • Wind energy systems -
                   chapter 9.46 of this title
                   • Wireless communications facilities -
                   chapter 9.44 of this title
 
Notes:
   1.    All projects shall comply with the commercial design guidelines.
   2.    Minimum lot size can be less if the subdivision application is filed
concurrently with the specific plan, site plan and design review, or
conditional use permit application.
   3.    Map suffix: The number placed after the zoning district initial is the
allowable dwelling units (du) per 1 acre.
   4.    The above referenced acreages that are equal to 1 acre or more refers
to gross acreage (total acreage including streets/infrastructure), less than 1
acre refers to net acreage (acreage not including streets/infrastructure).
   5.    Side yards are only required if necessary for emergency access. If
adjacent property is not commercial or industrial, a side yard shall be
required along that side of the property.
   6.    A rear yard is required only when the adjacent property is not
designated commercial or industrial.
   7.   Residential development may occur within the Mixed Use Zone without the
requirement for simultaneous commercial development.
   8.   Properties within the Corridor Residential Overlay may develop infill
residential from 14.1 to 25.0 du/acre. A Specific Plan may be required in these
areas at the discretion of the Planning Commission.
   9.   Development within the Mixed Use-Town Center Zone, Town Center Special
Policy Area, will require preparation of a Conceptual Master Plan for the
entirety of the area.
   10.   Development within the Mixed Use-Civic Center Zone does not deviate
from the standards for C-MU.
(Ord. 253, 12-16-2014; amd. Ord. 297, - - ; Ord. 320, 11-5-2024)
9.09.040: PROJECTIONS AND ENCROACHMENTS INTO REQUIRED SETBACK AREAS:
   A.   General Provisions: All required yards shall be open and unobstructed
from finished grade or from such other specified level at which the yard is
required, to the sky, except for structures allowed in yards or courts by table
2-17 of this section.
Nothing in this section is intended to prevent the construction of any allowed
primary or accessory structure within the building envelope which is the lot
area not included in any required yard.
   B.   Clear Areas:
      1.   The projections listed in table 2-17 of this section may not, in any
event, encroach on or into the following:
         a.   The clear sight triangle (section
9.31.020 of this title) required at street and alley intersections.
         b.   Within three feet (3') of any lot line, dividing lots not in
common ownership, except as noted in table 2-17, "Projections Into Yards And
Courts", of this section.
      TABLE 2-17
      PROJECTIONS INTO YARDS AND COURTS
Facilities Front And         Interior Side    Rear Yard
           Street Side Yards Yards And Courts
Facilities           Front And            Interior Side      Rear Yard
                     Street Side Yards    Yards And Courts
Evaporative coolers,
air condition        4' when screened     2'                 4'
compressors, and     from view
similar equipment
Propane tanks sited
per California fire
code and fire hazard If allowed by fire   If allowed by fire
design standards     regulations and      regulations and    4'
specified by         screened             screened
subsection
9.34.060B1 of this
title
Cantilevered or
supported decks; and
cantilevered bay
windows provided the
total width of bay   4'                   3'                 4'
windows on any 1
story does not
exceed 50% of the
length of the wall
containing them
Roofed stairways,
landings, corridors  5'                   3'                 10'
and fire escapes
that are enclosed
Garages, carports,
sheds, and other
detached, enclosed   Not allowed          Not allowed        Allowed
accessory building
which occupy no more
than 25% of the yard
                     See parking
Unroofed parking and regulations (        Allowed            Allowed
loading areas        chapter 9.33 of this
                     title)
Covered,
underground, or
partially excavated
structures, such as
garages, fallout     Allowed, provided that the facilities do not extend more
shelters, wine       than 30" above the adjoining average finished grade level
cellars, basement
and public utility
or telephone/cable
television vaults
Fences, screening,
safety guardrails,
walls, and dense     4' maximum height    10' maximum height 10' maximum height
hedges along
property lines
Fence heights in excess of these standards may be allowed by an approved
conditional use permit or variance or when required by the town for reasons of
health, safety, and welfare of the general public
Signs                Allowed, subject to sign design standards
 
(Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
9.09.050: NATIVE LANDSCAPE DOCUMENTATION PACKAGE:
   A.   General Provisions: Commercial development projects shall be allowed to
transplant on and off site and to remove all regulated desert native plants
from their native locations within the property boundaries, pursuant to the
following development standards and requirements. Regulated desert native
plants for all commercial land development projects, include the following:
      REGULATED DESERT NATIVE PLANTS
 
Botanical Name        Common Name
Yucca schidigera      Mojave yucca
Nolina parryi         Parry's nolina
Juniperus californica California juniper
Yucca whipplei        Our Lord's candle
Pinus monophylla      Pinon pine
 
Pursuant to section 80117 of the state Food And Agricultural Code, the clearing
or removal of native plants from a canal, lateral ditch, survey line, building
site, or road or other right of way by the landowner or his agent, if the
native plants are not to be transported from the land or offered for sale, are
not subject to state regulations. For plants regulated by the state to be
transplanted off site, the town shall issue permits for their relocation in
accordance with this section.
   B.   Submission: A native landscaping documentation package shall be
submitted to the division at the time of filing land use applications for
development of commercial projects. Land use applications for commercial
projects may include, but are not limited to, specific plans, conditional use
permit, site plan and development review applications, land use compliance
applications, parcel and tract map applications, grading permit applications,
building permit applications, and any other applications necessary for town
authorization of land disturbing or development activity. The native
landscaping documentation package may be combined with landscaping and water
conservation requirements (
chapter 9.32 of this title).
   C.   Information: The native landscaping documentation package shall contain
the following information:
      1.   The botanical and common name of the regulated desert native plant.
      2.   The precise location of each regulated desert native plant.
      3.   The trunk or stem diameter of each regulated desert native plant.
      4.   The height of each regulated desert native plant.
      5.   The health or condition of the regulated desert native plant,
including the identification of those regulated desert native plants that are
not likely to survive transplanting procedures.
      6.   The proposed placement or disposition of the regulated desert native
plant, i.e., transplant on site, adopt off site, remove, etc. The plans for the
regulated desert native plant survey shall be no smaller than twenty four
inches by thirty six inches (24" x 36") unless otherwise approved by the
director.
   D.   Transplanting Off Site And On Site: All regulated desert native plants
identified in the native landscaping documentation package as likely to survive
transplanting shall be made available for adoption or shall be transplanted on
site as part of the project's landscaping plan. All native plant permit
applications shall illustrate maximum utilization of regulated desert native
plants in the project's landscaping plan. It is strongly encouraged that all
Yucca brevifolia (Joshua trees) identified for adoption and transplantation be
relocated through the uses of an adequately sized tree spade.
   E.   Adoption: Those regulated desert native plants identified in the native
landscaping documentation package as likely to survive transplanting
procedures, and which are not incorporated into a project's landscaping plan,
shall be available for adoption.
      1.   Any regulated desert native plant that is part of a commercial
development project, which are determined likely to survive transplanting
procedures and not incorporated into a project's landscaping plan shall be made
available for adoption. The project shall provide a minimum thirty (30) day
noticing period and thirty (30) day adoption period. The adoption period may be
less than thirty (30) days if all available regulated desert native plants have
been adopted.
      2.   A native landscape permit may include nonregulated desert native
plants at the remover's discretion.
      3.   In the adoption of regulated desert native plants first priority
shall be within the town of Yucca Valley and the second priority is Morongo
Basin.
      4.   It is strongly recommended by native plant experts that native
plants be moved only once to ensure survivability.
      5.   Prior to the adoption a thirty (30) day signage period is required
which may commence with submittal of the regulated desert native plant permit.
All projects required by this title to offer native plants for adoption shall
at a minimum install the required on site signage on the property notifying the
general public pursuant to the following:
         a.   A minimum of one sign shall be displayed. The sign may be
incorporated into a subdivision sign or other permitted sign. The minimum size
of the sign shall be not less than twenty four inches (24") in height by thirty
six inches (36") in width. Signs shall be no larger than thirty two (32) square
feet in area.
         b.   Signage shall be displayed perpendicular to roadways.
         c.   Where multiple signs are proposed, signs shall be displayed on
separate roadways, where possible.
         d.   Signs shall, at a minimum, display the following:
            (1)   A heading and statement indicating that regulated desert
native plants are available for adoption.
            (2)   The name of the individual or entity removing the regulated
desert native plants.
            (3)   A phone number where the individual or entity removing the
regulated desert native plants may be contacted.
            (4)   A statement indicating that the individual or entity removing
the regulated desert native plants is the primary contact, and that the town of
Yucca Valley may be contacted for more information on the regulated desert
native plants available for adoption and for contacting the individual or
entity removing the regulated desert native plants.
            (5)   The phone number for the town of Yucca Valley's community
development department.
         e.   Signs required by this section are in addition to the subdivision
signage allowed by this development code.
         f.   The sign may be installed in conjunction with the native
landscape documentation package submittal.
   F.   Adoption, Transplanting And Maintenance Of Regulated Desert Native
Plants: All regulated desert native plants made available for adoption shall be
transplanted and/or stockpiled and maintained until transplanted in accordance
with the following standards:
      1.   Written permission must be obtained from and signed by the owner of
the property on which the plants are to be located. A copy of the document
granting such permission shall be submitted to the director prior to issuance
of the permit.
      2.   Approval of transplanting must take into consideration the plant's
original and transplanted physical orientation, prevailing wind direction, soil
type of the original and transplanted locations, and other related attributes
which may affect the successful transplantation of the native plants in
question.
      3.   Native plants that are proposed to be removed shall be transplanted
or stockpiled for future transplanting wherever possible. In the instance of
stockpiling for future transplanting the permittee shall have submitted and
received approval of a native plant maintenance plan. The maintenance plan
shall include the following:
         a.   The proposed schedule of watering.
         b.   The proposed location of stockpiled plants.
         c.   How the plants will be supported.
         d.   The method of trap fencing to be used.
   G.   Removal: Those regulated desert native plants not incorporated into a
project's landscaping plan and not adopted during the thirty (30) day adoption
period are allowed to be removed. In addition plants determined to be unlikely
to survive transplantation may be removed. (Ord. 253, 12-16-2014; amd. Ord.
291, 1-19-2021)
CHAPTER 9.10
INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS
SECTION:
9.10.010: Purpose Of Industrial District
9.10.020: Permitted Uses And Permit Requirements
9.10.030: Development Standards
9.10.040: Native Landscape Documentation Package
9.10.010: PURPOSE OF INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT:
This chapter lists the land uses that may be allowed within the Industrial
Zoning District established by the General Plan, determines the type of
planning permit/approval required for each use, and provides basic standards
for site layout and building size. (Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
9.10.020: PERMITTED USES AND PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
Table 2-18 of this section identifies the uses of land allowed by this
Development Code in the Industrial Zoning District established by
 chapter 9.05, "Zoning Districts And Zoning Map", of this article 2.
All uses listed in the following table are subject to the applicable standards
of this Development Code and the permit requirements referenced in the "Notes
And Other Regulations" column and in subsection
9.06.030B, "Permit Requirements", of this article 2.
Pursuant to subsection
9.06.030A3, "Similar And Compatible Use May Be Allowed", of this article 2, the
Director may determine that a proposed use is permitted, providing that the
Director makes the required findings that the proposed use is similar,
compatible and consistent with the uses described in the table, the purposes,
and the General Plan.
The following land uses shall be permitted, pursuant to the conditions
stipulated:
   A.   Accessory uses including parking lots and structures, accessory signs,
and exterior storage which is fully fenced and screened with a solid fence and
where no storage is visible above the fence. Accessory uses and structures
shall comply with all requirements of this Code.
   B.   Industrial land uses proposed to operate from existing structures shall
be permitted by right in the following cases:
      1.   The structure has historically been utilized in a fashion similar to
the proposed use.
      2.   There are no structural off street, on site improvements or lack
thereof which pose an immediate threat to the health, safety or general welfare
of the Town.
      3.   There are no additions or alterations to the square footage of the
existing structure. (Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
   TABLE 2-18
   PERMITTED LAND USES AND PERMIT REQUIREMENTS
   FOR THE INDUSTRIAL ZONING DISTRICT
Zoning districts:
 I: Industrial
Permit required:
 CUP: Conditional use permit     SPR: Site plan and design review
 NP: Not allowed                 SUP: Special use permit
 P: Permitted                    TSEP: Temporary special event permit
 PD: Planned development permit  TUP: Temporary use permit
 SPL: Special license permit      
 
Type Of Use Permit Required Notes And Other Regulations
            I
Type Of Use                      Permit Required Notes And Other Regulations
                                 I
Agriculture and animal related:                  
                                                 Including, but not limited to,
 Animal care facility           SPR             animal hospitals,
                                                 veterinarian, pet stores, and
                                                 grooming
 Community gardens              SPR              
 Equestrian facility            SPR              
 Feed and tack                  SPR              
                                                 Including, but not limited to,
 Horticulture/agriculture       SPR             crop production, orchards, and
                                                 vineyards
 Kennels (over 15 animals)      SUP              
 Livestock operations           SUP              
 Natural resources development  CUP              
 Nature preserve                SPR              
 Nursery/garden supply (with    SPR              
  outdoor display)
 Nursery/garden supply (without SPR              
  outdoor display)
Industry, manufacturing and                      
processing, wholesaling:
 Construction/contractor        SPR              
  storage yard
                                                 See section
 Hazardous waste operations     CUP             9.34.110, "Hazardous
                                                 Materials", of this title
 Manufacturing operations       CUP              
 Motor vehicle storage/impound  CUP              
  facility
 Recycling facility (processing SUP
  facility)                                      See section
  Recycling facility (small                      9.14.070, "Recycling
 collection facility)           SPR             Facilities", of this article 2

 Research and development       SPR              
 Salvage facility               CUP              
                                                 See section
 Storage - ministorage          SPR             9.14.060, "Mini-/
  (personal storage)                             Self-Storage Facilities", of
                                                 this article 2
 Storage (outdoor vehicles      CUP              
  storage)
 Wholesaling and distribution   CUP              
Retail commercial uses:                          
                                                 See
 Adult oriented business        CUP             chapter 9.52, "Adult Oriented
                                                 Business", of this title
 Antique/secondhand stores      SPR              
 Appliance and home goods sales SPR              
  and repair
 Auto and vehicle sales and     SPR              
  rentals and parts sales
 Boat and recreational vehicle  CUP              
  sales
 Building and landscape         SPR              
  materials sales (indoor)
 Building and landscape         SPR              
  materials sales (outdoor)
 Construction and heavy         SPR              
  equipment sales and rentals
 Convenience store              SPR              
  Farmers' market/arts and                       See
 crafts events                  TSEP            chapter 9.38, "Temporary
                                                 Special Events", of this title
                                                 See section
 Fuel/propane dealer            SPR             9.14.040, "Gas Or Other
                                                 Fueling Stations", of this
                                                 article 2
  Grocery, supermarket,
 specialty food stores,         SPR              
  drugstores
 Manufactured home sales        SPR              
 Pawnshop                       SPR              
 Retail store (less than 80,000 SPR              
  square feet)
 Retail store (80,000 or        SPR              
  greater square feet)
  Seasonal holiday sales                         See
 facilities                     TSEP            chapter 9.38, "Temporary
                                                 Special Events", of this title
 Shopping center (neighborhood, CUP              
  community, or regional)
  Swap meet, outdoor market,                     See section
 auction yard (permanent)       CUP             9.14.080, "Swap Meets", of
                                                 this article 2
 Warehouse retail               SPR              
Business, financial, and                         
professional:
 ATM                            P                
 Financial institution and      SPR              
  related services
 Laboratory                     SPR              
  Office (business,
 professional, corporate,       SPR              
  medical)
Eating and drinking                              
establishments:
  Bakery (retail), coffee shop                   Including, but not limited to,
 and similar uses               SPR             ice cream shops, frozen yogurt
                                                 shops, and candy/sweet shops
 Bakery (wholesale)             SPR              
 Bar, lounge, nightclub,        CUP              
  tavern, and pool hall
 Catering service               SPR              
                                                 See section
 Fast food (with drive-through, CUP              9.14.030, "Drive- Up/Drive-
  delivery)                                      Through Establishments", of
                                                 this article 2
 Fast food (without drive-      SPR              
  through, delivery)
 Full service restaurant        SPR              
Commercial service uses:                         
 Ambulance service              SPR              
 Appliance sales, service,      SPR              
  repair, and rental
                                                 See section
 Automobile gas station         SPR              9.14.040, "Gas Or Other
                                                 Fueling Stations", of this
                                                 article 2
 Automobile service/repair      SPR              
  (major repair/body work)
 Automobile service/repair      SPR              
  (minor repair and maintenance)
 Automobile washing (car wash)  CUP              
 Automobile washing (car wash)  P                
  (fundraising, temporary)
 Barber, beauty shop, and other SPR              
  similar personal service uses
 Equipment sales, service,      SPR              
  repair, and rental
 Fitness center (less than      SPR              
  2,000 square feet)
 Fitness center (more than      SPR              
  2,000 square feet)
 Fortune telling and related    SPR              
  service
 Funeral service (excluding     SPR              
  crematorium)
 Funeral service (including     CUP              
  crematorium)
 Laundry and dry cleaning       SPR              
 Locksmith                      SPR              
 Maintenance and repair (major) SPR              
 Maintenance and repair (minor) SPR              
 Massage establishment          SPL              
 Printing and duplication       SPR              
  services
 Studio (dance, music, martial  SPR              
  arts, artists)
 Tattoo and piercing            SPR              
Commercial recreation:                           
 Amusement arcade or park       CUP              
 Campgrounds                    NP               
  Carnivals/circuses/festivals/                  See
 fairs                          TSEP            chapter 9.38, "Temporary
                                                 Special Events", of this title
  Concerts, open air theaters,                   See
 outdoor entertainment events   TSEP             chapter 9.38, "Temporary
                                                 Special Events", of this title
 Game arcade, internet cafe,    SPR              
  and similar business
 Golf course                    SPR              
 Parks/recreation facilities    SPR              
 Private clubs and lodges       CUP              
  Recreation and entertainment
 (commercial indoor and         CUP              
  outdoor)
                                                 See subsection
 Recreational vehicle park      CUP             9.08.060B, "Recreational
                                                 Vehicle Parks", of this
                                                 article 2
Transportation, communication,                   
and infrastructure:
                                                 Including, but not limited to,
                                                 radio and television stations
 Communication facility         CUP             or towers, satellite receiving
                                                 stations, but not wireless
                                                 telecommunication facilities
                                                 See
                                                 chapter 9.33, "Parking And
 Parking lot                    SPR             Loading Regulations", of this
                                                 title. Accessory or incidental
                                                 to the primary use of the same
                                                 property
 Public/government facilities   SPR              
 Public safety uses (permanent) SPR              
                                                 See
 Solar energy systems (utility  NP              chapter 9.46, "Renewable
  grade/primary use)                             Energy Generation Facilities",
                                                 of this title
  Transmission utility lines,
 pipelines, and control         CUP              
  stations
 Utilities (major)              CUP              
                                                 See
 Wind energy system (utility    NP              chapter 9.46, "Renewable
  grade/primary use)                             Energy Generation Facilities",
                                                 of this title
 Wireless communication         CUP             Pursuant to
  facility                                       chapter 9.44 of this title
Other uses:                                      
 Cemeteries, including pet      CUP              
  cemeteries
 Conference centers and group   CUP              
  camps
 Correctional institution       CUP              
  Emergency facilities                           See
 (temporary)                    TUP             chapter 9.39, "Temporary Uses
                                                 And Structures", of this title
 Emergency transitional housing P               See
                                                 chapter 9.48 of this title
 Hospitals/medical/             CUP              
  rehabilitation centers/clinics
 Hotels and motels              CUP              
  Marijuana dispensaries,
  marijuana cultivation,                         Pursuant to
 marijuana deliveries,          NP               chapter 9.53 of this title
  additional prohibited
  marijuana
 Museum, library, art gallery,  SPR              
  outdoor exhibit
  Religious institutions,
 religious assembly, and other  CUP              
  public assembly
 Schools (private, vocational,  CUP              
  charter, and other)
 Single room occupancy units    CUP             See
                                                  chapter 9.48 of this title
                                                 See
 Temporary special events       TSEP            chapter 9.38, "Temporary
                                                 Special Events", of this title
                                                 See
 Temporary structures and uses  TUP             chapter 9.39, "Temporary Uses
                                                 And Structures", of this title
 
(Ord. 253, 12-16-2014; amd. Ord. 268, 7-18-2017; Ord. 320, 11-5-2024)
9.10.030: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
Subdivisions, new land uses and structures, and alterations to existing land
uses and structures shall be designed, constructed, and established in
compliance with the requirements in table 2-19 of this section, in addition to
the applicable standards (e.g., landscaping, parking and loading, etc.) in
article 3, "Development Standards", of this title.
   TABLE 2-19
   INDUSTRIAL ZONING DISTRICT DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
Development Feature Standard1
Development        Standard1
Feature
Minimum lot size2  5 acres
Minimum lot        W: 60 feet
dimensions (W:     D: 100 feet
width, D: depth)
Maximum lot
dimensions (width  1:3
to depth)
Setbacks:
 Front            15 feet
 Rear3            0 feet
 Side4            0 feet
 Street side      15 feet
Maximum floor area 1.0
ratio (FAR)5
Maximum lot        70%
coverage
Height limit       75 feet
Minimum district   5 acres
size
                   See article 3, "Development Standards", of this title,
                   including the following standards:
                    • Dedications and infrastructure improvement standards -
                    chapter 9.30 of this title
                    • Landscaping and native plant protection - section
                    9.09.050 of this article 2
                    • Performance standards -
                     chapter 9.34 of this title relating to avoiding adverse
                    impact to adjoining properties relating to fire, explosive,
                    or other hazards; noise or vibration; smoke, dust, odor or
Other applicable    other form of air pollution; heat, cold, dampness;
regulations         electrical or other disturbance
                    • Property maintenance standards -
                    chapter 9.35 of this title
                    • Signs -
                    chapter 9.36 of this title
                    • Solar energy systems -
                     chapter 9.46 of this title
                    • Wind energy systems -
                    chapter 9.46 of this title
                    • Wireless communications facilities -
                    chapter 9.44 of this title
 
Notes:
   1.    All projects must comply with the performance standards indicating the
acceptable levels of noise, vibration, air pollution, glare, and other possible
pollutants that are set out in
 chapter 9.34, "Performance Standards", of this title.
   2.    Minimum lot size can be less if the subdivision application is filed
concurrently with the planned development or conditional use permit
application.
   3.    A rear yard is required only when the adjacent property is not
designated commercial or industrial, unless otherwise required by the Code or
Fire Department.
   4.    Side yards are only required if necessary for emergency access. If
adjacent property is not commercial or industrial, a side yard shall be
required along that side of the property.
   5.    Maximum allowed floor area ratio (FAR): Floor area/lot area.
    TABLE 2-20
   PROJECTIONS INTO YARDS AND COURTS
 
Facilities         Front And Street   Interior Side Yards Rear Yard
                   Side Yards         And Courts
Fences, screening,
safety guardrails, Allowed 8' maximum Allowed 10' maximum Allowed 10' maximum
walls, and dense   height             height              height
hedges along
property lines
 
(Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
9.10.040: NATIVE LANDSCAPE DOCUMENTATION PACKAGE:
   A.   General Provisions: Industrial development projects shall be allowed to
transplant on and off site and to remove all regulated desert native plants
from their native locations within the property boundaries, pursuant to the
following development standards and requirements. Regulated desert native
plants for all industrial land development projects, include the following:
      REGULATED DESERT NATIVE PLANTS
 
Botanical Name        Common Name
Yucca schidigera      Mojave yucca
Nolina parryi         Parry's nolina
Juniperus californica California juniper
Yucca whipplei        Our Lord's candle
Pinus monophylla      Pinon pine
 
Pursuant to section 80117 of the state Food And Agricultural Code, the clearing
or removal of native plants from a canal, lateral ditch, survey line, building
site, or road or other right of way by the landowner or his agent, if the
native plants are not to be transported from the land or offered for sale, are
not subject to state regulations. For plants regulated by the state to be
transplanted off site, the town shall issue permits for their relocation in
accordance with this section.
   B.   Submission: A native landscaping documentation package shall be
submitted to the division at the time of filing land use applications for
development of commercial projects. Land use applications for industrial
projects may include, but are not limited to, specific plans, conditional use
permit, site plan and development review applications, land use compliance
applications, parcel and tract map applications, grading permit applications,
building permit applications, and any other applications necessary for town
authorization of land disturbing or development activity. The native
landscaping documentation package may be combined with landscaping and water
conservation requirements (
chapter 9.32 of this title).
   C.   Information: The native landscaping documentation package shall contain
the following information:
      1.   The botanical and common name of the regulated desert native plant.
      2.   The precise location of each regulated desert native plant.
      3.   The trunk or stem diameter of each regulated desert native plant.
      4.   The height of each regulated desert native plant.
      5.   The health or condition of the regulated desert native plant,
including the identification of those regulated desert native plants that are
not likely to survive transplanting procedures.
      6.   The proposed placement or disposition of the regulated desert native
plant, i.e., transplant on site, adopt off site, remove, etc. The plans for the
regulated desert native plant survey shall be no smaller than twenty four
inches by thirty six inches (24" x 36") unless otherwise approved by the
director.
   D.   Transplanting Off Site And On Site: All regulated desert native plants
identified in the native landscaping documentation package as likely to survive
transplanting shall be made available for adoption or shall be transplanted on
site as part of the project's landscaping plan. All native plant permit
applications shall illustrate maximum utilization of regulated desert native
plants in the project's landscaping plan. It is strongly encouraged that all
Yucca brevifolia (Joshua trees) identified for adoption and transplantation be
relocated through the uses of an adequately sized tree spade.
   E.   Adoption: Those regulated desert native plants identified in the native
landscaping documentation package as likely to survive transplanting
procedures, and which are not incorporated into a project's landscaping plan,
shall be available for adoption.
      1.   Any regulated desert native plant that is part of an industrial
development project, which are determined likely to survive transplanting
procedures and not incorporated into a project's landscaping plan shall be made
available for adoption. The project shall provide a minimum thirty (30) day
noticing period and thirty (30) day adoption period. The adoption period may be
less than thirty (30) days if all available regulated desert native plants have
been adopted.
      2.   A native landscape permit may include nonregulated desert native
plants at the remover's discretion.
      3.   In the adoption of regulated desert native plants first priority
shall be within the town of Yucca Valley and the second priority is Morongo
Basin.
      4.   It is strongly recommended by native plant experts that native
plants be moved only once to ensure survivability.
      5.   Prior to the adoption a thirty (30) day signage period is required
which may commence with submittal of the regulated desert native plant permit.
All projects required by this title to offer native plants for adoption shall
at a minimum install the required on site signage on the property notifying the
general public pursuant to the following:
         a.   A minimum of one sign shall be displayed. The sign may be
incorporated into a subdivision sign or other permitted sign. The minimum size
of the sign shall be not less than twenty four inches (24") in height by thirty
six inches (36") in width. Signs shall be no larger than thirty two (32) square
feet in area.
         b.   Signage shall be displayed perpendicular to roadways.
         c.   Where multiple signs are proposed, signs shall be displayed on
separate roadways, where possible.
         d.   Signs shall, at a minimum, display the following:
            (1)   A heading and statement indicating that regulated desert
native plants are available for adoption.
            (2)   The name of the individual or entity removing the regulated
desert native plants.
            (3)   A phone number where the individual or entity removing the
regulated desert native plants may be contacted.
            (4)   A statement indicating that the individual or entity removing
the regulated desert native plants is the primary contact, and that the town of
Yucca Valley may be contacted for more information on the regulated desert
native plants available for adoption and for contacting the individual or
entity removing the regulated desert native plants.
            (5)   The phone number for the town of Yucca Valley's community
development department.
         e.   Signs required by this section are in addition to the subdivision
signage allowed by this development code.
         f.   The sign may be installed in conjunction with the native
landscape documentation package submittal.
   F.   Adoption, Transplanting And Maintenance Of Regulated Desert Native
Plants: All regulated desert native plants entered into an adoption program
shall be transplanted and/or stockpiled and maintained until transplanted in
accordance with the following standards:
      1.   Written permission must be obtained from and signed by the owner of
the property on which the plants are to be located. A copy of the document
granting such permission shall be submitted to the director prior to issuance
of the permit.
      2.   Approval of transplanting must take into consideration the plant's
original and transplanted physical orientation, prevailing wind direction, soil
type of the original and transplanted locations, and other related attributes
which may affect the successful transplantation of the native plants in
question.
      3.   Native plants that are proposed to be removed shall be transplanted
or stockpiled for future transplanting wherever possible. In the instance of
stockpiling for future transplanting the permittee shall have submitted and
received approval of a native plant maintenance plan. The maintenance plan
shall include the following:
         a.   The proposed schedule of watering.
         b.   The proposed location of stockpiled plants.
         c.   How the plants will be supported.
         d.   The method of trap fencing to be used.
   G.   Removal: Those regulated desert native plants not incorporated into a
project's landscaping plan and not adopted during the thirty (30) day adoption
period are allowed to be removed. In addition plants determined to be unlikely
to survive transplantation may be removed. (Ord. 253, 12-16-2014; amd. Ord.
291, 1-19-2021)
CHAPTER 9.11
MIXED USE DISTRICTS
(Reserved)
(Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
CHAPTER 9.12
PUBLIC/QUASI-PUBLIC AND OPEN SPACE DISTRICTS
SECTION:
9.12.010: Purpose
9.12.020: General Provisions
9.12.030: Permitted Uses And Permit Requirements
9.12.040: Development Standards
9.12.010: PURPOSE:
These zones are established to implement the public/quasi-public zone and the
open space district. They are established to provide for areas at suitable
locations for facilities intended to provide supportive government and open
space functions to the population, including community centers, nature
preserves, cultural institutions, government facilities, libraries, public
utilities, public schools, and parks. (Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
9.12.020: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Public/Quasi-Public: The specific purpose of the public/quasi- public
zoning district regulations and standards is to provide for areas where
facilities dedicated to public or quasi-public uses may be appropriate.
   B.   Open Space: The specific purpose for the open space zoning district
regulations and standards are to:
      1.   Protect the physical, social, recreational, aesthetic, and economic
resources of the town.
      2.   Preserve and enhance the use of open space lands as a limited and
valuable resource.
      3.   Permit limited but reasonable use of open space lands while
protecting the public health, safety and welfare and to implement the town's
open space element of the general plan. (Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
9.12.030: PERMITTED USES AND PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
Table 2-21 of this section identifies the uses of land allowed by this
development code in public/quasi-public and open space zoning districts
established by
chapter 9.05, "Zoning Districts And Zoning Map", of this article 2.
   TABLE 2-21
   PERMITTED LAND USES AND PERMIT REQUIREMENTS FOR
   PUBLIC/QUASI-PUBLIC AND OPEN SPACE ZONING DISTRICTS
 
Zoning districts:
 P/QP: Public/quasi-public       OS: Open space
Permit required:
 CUP: Conditional use permit     SPR: Site plan and design review
 NP: Not allowed                 SUP: Special use permit
 P: Permitted                    TSEP: Temporary special event permit
 PD: Planned development permit  TUP: Temporary use permit
 
            Permit Required
Type Of Use By Zoning District Notes And Other Regulations
            P/QP OS
                               Permit Required
Type Of Use                    By Zoning District Notes And Other Regulations
                               P/QP OS
Agriculture and animal                           
related:
 Community gardens            P    P              
 Natural resources            CUP  CUP            
  development
 Nature preserve              P    P              
Industry, manufacturing and                      
processing, wholesaling:
                                                  See section
 Recycling facility (small    SUP  NP            9.14.070, "Recycling
  collection facility)                            Facilities", of this article
                                                  2
Commercial recreation:                           
 Campgrounds                  NP   SPR            
                                                  See
 Concerts, open air theaters, TSEP TSEP           chapter 9.38, "Temporary
  outdoor entertainment events                    Special Events", of this
                                                  title
 Parks/recreation facilities  P    SPR            
  Recreation and entertainment
 (commercial indoor and       CUP  CUP            
  outdoor)
Transportation, communication,                   
and infrastructure:
                                                  Including, but not limited
                                                  to, radio and television
 Communication facility       CUP  CUP           stations or towers, satellite
                                                  receiving stations, but not
                                                  wireless telecommunication
                                                  facilities
                                                  See
                                                  chapter 9.33, "Parking And
 Parking lot                  P    NP            Loading Regulations", of this
                                                  title. Accessory or
                                                  incidental to the primary use
                                                  of the same property
 Public/government facilities P    NP             
 Public safety uses           P    CUP            
  (permanent)
                                                  See
 Solar energy systems         NP   NP            chapter 9.46, "Renewable
  (utility grade/primary use)                     Energy Generation
                                                  Facilities", of this title
  Transmission utility lines,
 pipelines, and control       CUP  CUP            
  stations
 Utilities (major/minor)      CUP  CUP            
                                                  See
 Wind energy system           NP   NP            chapter 9.46, "Renewable
                                                  Energy Generation
                                                  Facilities", of this title
 Wireless communication       CUP  CUP           Pursuant to
  facility                                         chapter 9.44 of this title
Other uses:                                      
 Cemeteries, including pet    CUP  CUP            
  cemeteries
 Conference centers and group CUP  CUP            
  camps
 Correctional institution     CUP  NP             
                                                  See
 Emergency facilities         TUP  TUP            chapter 9.39, "Temporary
  (temporary)                                     Uses And Structures", of this
                                                  title
  Hospitals/medical/
 rehabilitation centers/      CUP  NP             
  clinics
  Marijuana dispensaries,
  marijuana cultivation,                          Pursuant to
 marijuana deliveries,        NP   NP             chapter 9.53 of this title
  additional prohibited
  marijuana
 Museum, library, art         P    CUP            
  gallery, outdoor exhibit
  Religious institution,
 religious assembly, and      CUP  NP             
  other public assembly
  Schools (private,
 vocational, charter, and     CUP  NP             
  other)
                                                  See
 Temporary special events     TSEP TSEP          chapter 9.38, "Temporary
                                                  Special Events", of this
                                                  title
                                                  See
 Temporary structures and     TUP  TUP           chapter 9.39, "Temporary Uses
  uses                                            And Structures", of this
                                                  title
 
(Ord. 253, 12-16-2014; amd. Ord. 268, 7-18-2017)
9.12.040: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
Subdivisions, new land uses and structures, and alterations to existing land
uses and structures shall be designed, constructed, and established in
compliance with the requirements in table 2-22 of this section in addition to
the applicable standards (e.g., landscaping, parking and loading, etc.) in
article 3, "Development Standards", of this title.
   TABLE 2-22
   PUBLIC/QUASI-PUBLIC (P/QP) AND OPEN SPACE (OS)
   ZONING DISTRICTS DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
Development Feature Public/Quasi-Public1 Open Space1
Development        Public/Quasi-Public1 Open Space1
Feature
Minimum lot size2  10,000 sq. ft.       20 acres2
Minimum lot        --                   150 ft.
frontage
Minimum lot
dimensions         W: 60 ft.            --
(W: width; D:      D: 100 ft.
depth)
Maximum lot
dimensions (width  1:3                  1:4
to depth)
Setbacks:                                
Front              15 ft.               25 ft.
Rear3              10 ft.               25 ft.
Side4              10 ft.               25 ft.
Street side        15 ft.               25 ft.
Maximum floor area 1.0                  --
ratio (FAR)5
Maximum lot        70%                  10%
coverage
Height limit6      75 ft.               35 ft.
Minimum district   5 acres              100 acres
size
                   See article 3, "Development Standards", of this title
                   including the following standards:
                    • Dedications and infrastructure improvement standards -
                    chapter 9.30 of this title
                    • Landscaping and native plant protection - section
                    9.09.050 of this article 2
                    • Performance standards -
                    chapter 9.34 of this title, relating to avoiding adverse
                    impact to adjoining properties relating to fire, explosive,
                    or other hazards; noise or vibration; smoke, dust, odor or
Other applicable    other form of air pollution; heat, cold, dampness;
regulations         electrical or other disturbance
                    • Property maintenance standards -
                    chapter 9.35 of this title
                    • Signs -
                     chapter 9.36 of this title
                    • Solar energy systems -
                    chapter 9.46 of this title
                    • Wind energy systems -
                    chapter 9.46 of this title
                    • Wireless communications facilities -
                    chapter 9.44 of this title
 
Notes:
   1.    All projects must comply with the performance standards indicating the
acceptable levels of noise, vibration, air pollution, glare, and other possible
pollutants that are set out in
chapter 9.34, "Performance Standards", of this title.
   2.    Minimum lots size can be less if the subdivision application is filed
concurrently with the planned development or conditional use permit
application.
   3.    A rear yard is required only when the adjacent property is not
designated commercial or industrial.
   4.    Side yards are only required if necessary for emergency access. If
adjacent property is not commercial or industrial, a side yard shall be
required along that side of the property.
   5.    Maximum allowed floor area ratio (FAR): Floor area/lot area.
   6.    Architectural features and equipment may exceed height pursuant to
section
 9.31.030 of this title.
(Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
CHAPTER 9.13
SPECIFIC PLAN DISTRICTS
SECTION:
9.13.010: Purpose Of Specific Plan Districts
9.13.020: Effect Of Specific Plan Zone
9.13.030: Required Contents Of A Specific Plan
9.13.040: Land Use And Development Standards
9.13.050: Adopted Specific Plans
9.13.051: Prohibited Uses
9.13.010: PURPOSE OF SPECIFIC PLAN DISTRICTS:
The Specific Plan (SP) Zone is established to implement sections 65450 through
65457 of the State Government Code. As provided for in the Government Code, a
specific plan is designed to provide for flexibility, innovative use of land
resources and development, a variety of housing and other development types,
and an effective and safe method of pedestrian and vehicular circulation. A
specific plan may be adopted for any property or group of properties meeting
the criteria set forth in this chapter and
chapter 9.70, "Specific Plans", of this title. The Specific Plan Zone shall
apply to all properties lying within the boundaries of a specific plan that has
been adopted by resolution or ordinance of the Council. (Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
9.13.020: EFFECT OF SPECIFIC PLAN ZONE:
Once adopted, a specific plan shall govern all use and development of
properties within the bounds of that specific plan. Where a specific plan is
silent with regard to particular development standards, the provisions of this
Code shall govern. The Director shall have the authority to determine which
provisions of this Code apply where a specific plan is silent. (Ord. 253, 12-
16-2014)
9.13.030: REQUIRED CONTENTS OF A SPECIFIC PLAN:
The required contents of a specific plan shall be as set forth in Government
Code section 65450 et seq. (Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
9.13.040: LAND USE AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
Each adopted specific plan establishes the land use regulations and development
standards applicable to the properties within the specific plan. (Ord. 253, 12-
16-2014)
9.13.050: ADOPTED SPECIFIC PLANS:
Table 2-23 of this section identifies the adopted specific plans in Yucca
Valley. These specific plans define the development standards and guidelines
for each corresponding Specific Plan Zone.
   TABLE 2-23
   SPECIFIC PLANS
 
Specific Plan                       Location Adoption Date
                                             (Adoption Mechanism)
Old Town Yucca Valley specific plan         December 13, 2007 (ordinances 185
                                             and 186)
Home Depot specific plan                    February 9, 2006 (ordinance 179)
Super Wal-Mart specific plan                August 14, 2008 (ordinance 194)
 
(Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
9.13.051: PROHIBITED USES:
!!! Marijuana dispensaries, marijuana cultivation, marijuana deliveries,
additional prohibited marijuana, are prohibited uses in all Specific Plan
Districts. (Ord. 268, 7-18-2017)
CHAPTER 9.14
STANDARDS AND REGULATIONS FOR SPECIFIC USES IN NONRESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
SECTION:
9.14.010: Purpose
9.14.020: Child Daycare Centers
9.14.030: Drive-Up/Drive-Through Establishments
9.14.040: Gas Or Other Fueling Stations
9.14.050: Marijuana Dispensaries (Rep. by Ord. 268, 7-18-2017)
9.14.060: Mini-/Self-Storage Facilities
9.14.070: Recycling Facilities
9.14.080: Swap Meets
9.14.090: Commercial Sidewalk Displays
9.14.100: Farmers’ Markets
9.14.010: PURPOSE:
This chapter provides locational, site planning, developmental, and/or
operational standards for certain land uses that are allowed by this article 2
within nonresidential districts, and for activities that require special
standards to mitigate their potential adverse impacts. (Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
9.14.020: CHILD DAYCARE CENTERS:
   A.   Purpose: Child daycare center regulations are intended to address child
daycare uses in commercial districts consistent with State law and in a manner
that recognizes the need for such services and importance of minimizing the
effects on surrounding properties.
   B.   Child Daycare Center Types:
      1.   Daycare Centers: Daycare centers are any facility other than family
daycare homes that provide, but are not limited to, infant centers, preschools,
and extended daycare facilities.
      2.   Employer Sponsored Childcare Centers: Employer sponsored childcare
centers are facilities at an employer's site of business that are operated
directly or through a provider contract by any person or entity having one or
more employees, and available exclusively for the care of children of that
employer, and of the officers, managers, and employees of that employer.
   C.   Development And Operational Standards:
      1.   License: Daycare centers and employer sponsored childcare centers
are required to obtain a business license from the Town and provide the Town
with a copy of the State of California daycare license.
      2.   Traffic Control: Off street loading areas shall be provided on site
and designated for the forward travel of vehicles both on entering and leaving
the premises. The site plan shall clearly identify pedestrian routes to and
from the drop off and pick up areas, including sidewalks and directional
signage.
      3.   Parking: See
 chapter 9.33 of this title for parking requirements for commercial child
daycare centers.
      4.   Noise: In order to protect adjacent uses from noise impacts
associated with child daycare centers, hours of operation are limited to
seventeen (17) hours a day between the hours of six o'clock (6:00) A.M. and
eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M., and outdoor activities are restricted to seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M. to nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. Amplification equipment shall
not be used for outdoor activities associated with the daycare use. Daycare
centers shall comply with section
9.34.080, "Noise", of this title.
      5.   Signs: See
 chapter 9.36 of this title for sign regulations for commercial child daycare
centers. (Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
9.14.030: DRIVE-UP/DRIVE-THROUGH ESTABLISHMENTS:
   A.   Purpose: This section provides locational and operational guidelines
for retail trade or service uses providing drive- through and drive-up
facilities to ensure that the facilities are designed and operated to
effectively mitigate problems of congestion, excessive pavement, litter, noise,
pedestrian safety, traffic, and unsightliness.
   B.   Applicability: The provisions in this section shall apply to drive-
through and drive-up facilities as defined in article 7, "Definitions", of this
title and where allowed in compliance with this article 2 and the following
Town guidelines.
   C.   Inwardly Focused: Drive-through aisles should be inwardly focused
within the site and located away from adjoining streets and any adjoining
residential properties, wherever feasible.
   D.   Pedestrian Walkways: Pedestrian walkways (including ADA access areas)
should not intersect the drive-through access aisles, but where they do they
shall have clear visibility and be emphasized by enhanced paving or markings.
   E.   No Reduction In Off Street Parking: The provision of drive- through and
drive-up service facilities shall not justify a reduction in the number of
required off street parking spaces.
   F.   Accommodation Of Waiting Vehicles:
      1.   Drive-through access aisles should provide sufficient space before
the menu board to accommodate at least five (5) waiting vehicles and at least
five (5) waiting vehicles between the menu board and the drive-up service
window.
      2.   Drive-through lanes shall be designed separately from drive- through
access aisles and shall avoid the blocking of parking stalls or pedestrian
access.
   G.   Menu And Preview Boards: Menu and preview boards may only be installed
in compliance with all of the following requirements:
      1.   As practical, visibility of outdoor menu and preview boards should
be minimized from any adjoining street(s). Additional landscape areas or shrub
plantings may be required to provide proper screening.
      2.   Any proposed carhop and/or walk-up menu boards shall not exceed
twelve (12) square feet in area and shall be located in areas generally defined
through the required conditional use permit process in compliance with
 chapter 9.63 of this title.
   H.   Noise: Amplification equipment (e.g., speakers at menu boards, piped
music, etc.) shall be located so as not to adversely impact adjoining uses and
shall be operated in compliance with sections
 9.34.080, "Noise", and 9.34.090, "Vibration", of this title.
   I.   Prevention Of Headlight Glare: Each drive-through aisle should be
appropriately screened with a combination of landscaping, low walls, and/or
berms maintained at a minimum height of three feet (3') to prevent headlight
glare from impacting adjacent streets, adjoining properties, and parking lots.
   J.   Wall Required When Adjoining Residential Uses: A minimum six foot (6')
high solid decorative masonry wall shall be constructed on each property line
that adjoins a parcel zoned for and/or developed with a residential use. The
design of the wall and the proposed construction materials shall be subject to
review and approval through the site plan review process. A minimum five foot
(5') deep landscaping strip shall be provided between the wall and any
driveway. (Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
9.14.040: GAS OR OTHER FUELING STATIONS:
   A.   Purpose: This section provides locational, developmental, and
operational standards for fueling service stations.
   B.   Applicability: The provisions in this section shall apply to fueling
service stations as defined in article 7, "Definitions", of this title and
where allowed in compliance with this article 2 and the following standards.
   C.   Standards: Fueling service stations shall comply with all of the
following locational, developmental, and operational standards:
      1.   The minimum structure setback from street property lines shall be
forty feet (40'), unless otherwise approved by the commission for a reverse
designed fueling service station (where rear of structure is placed adjacent to
the street property line(s)).
      2.   The minimum structure setback from other property lines shall be ten
feet (10').
      3.   The minimum standard width of driveways at the sidewalk shall be
thirty feet (30').
      4.   The centerline of driveways shall be perpendicular to the curb line.
      5.   The minimum distance from any driveway to any interior property line
shall be five feet (5'), and the minimum radius of the curb return for the
driveway shall be twenty feet (20') from full height curb on the street.
      6.   The minimum distance between curb cuts shall be thirty feet (30').
      7.   Parking shall comply with the design, parking ratio, and size
requirements specified in
chapter 9.33, "Parking And Loading Regulations", of this title, but accessory
uses associated with the fueling service station shall be parked as follows:
         a.   Accessory uses (e.g., car wash and/or minimarket, fast food
restaurant) may be allowed subject to meeting off street parking standards for
each accessory use.
         b.   The total number of off street parking spaces shall be the sum
total required for the various uses computed separately.
      8.   All pump or fuel dispensing islands shall be set back a minimum of
fifteen feet (15') from the closest property line.
      9.   The maximum number of pumps or individual fuel dispensing appliances
shall be as follows:
         a.   Site size of twelve thousand (12,000) square feet or less shall
be limited to eight (8) pumps or individual fuel dispensing appliances.
         b.   Two (2) pumps or individual fuel dispensing appliances may be
added for each additional two thousand (2,000) square feet of site area.
      10.   A solid decorative masonry wall of minimum six feet (6') high, and
five foot (5') wide landscape buffer, should be erected along all property
lines separating the site from any parcel zoned for residential purposes, and
along all alley property lines if the property opposite is zoned for
residential purposes. The design of the wall and the proposed construction
materials shall be subject to review and approval through the site plan review
process.
      11.   No parking on the premises other than for those persons attending
to business on the site and the vehicles of employees. (Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
9.14.050: MARIJUANA DISPENSARIES:
(Rep. by Ord. 268, 7-18-2017)
9.14.060: MINI-/SELF-STORAGE FACILITIES:
   A.   General: The only commercial activities permitted on the site of a
self-service storage facility shall be rental of storage bays and pick up and
deposit of goods and/or property in dead storage. Storage bays shall not be
used to: manufacture, fabricate or process goods; service or repair vehicles,
boats, small engines or electrical equipment, or to conduct similar repair
activities; conduct garage sales or retail sales of any kind; or conduct any
other commercial or industrial activity on the site.
   B.   Security Quarters Permitted: Residential quarters for security purposes
may be established on the site.
   C.   Bays Have No Legal Address: Individual storage bays or private postal
boxes within a self-service storage facility shall not be considered a premises
for the purpose of assigning a legal address in order to obtain an occupational
license or other governmental permit or license to do business.
   D.   Outside Storage:
      1.   Except as provided in this section, all property stored on site
shall be entirely within enclosed buildings.
      2.   Open storage of private recreational vehicles and dry storage of
recreational boats for personal use shall be permitted within a self-service
storage facility provided that the following is met:
         a.   Such storage shall take place only within a designated area. The
area so designated shall be clearly delineated upon the site plan accompanying
the application;
         b.   The open storage area shall not exceed twenty five percent (25%)
of the buildable area of the site;
         c.   The open storage area shall be entirely screened from view from
adjacent residential areas and all street rights of way by a solid building
wall or a masonry wall with a minimum height of eight feet (8');
         d.   Vehicles shall not be stored within the area set aside for
minimum building setbacks; and
         e.   No vehicle maintenance, washing or repair shall be permitted on
site. Recreational boats stored on the site shall be placed and maintained upon
wheeled trailers. No dry stacking of boats shall be permitted on site.
   E.   Minimum Lot Size: Notwithstanding any other provision of this code the
minimum lot size for a self-storage facility shall be one acre.
   F.   Separation Between Storage Buildings: If separate buildings are
constructed, there shall be a minimum ten foot (10') setback between individual
buildings within the facility.
   G.   Maximum Bay Size: The maximum size of a storage bay shall be five
hundred (500) square feet.
   H.   Maximum Building Height: With the exception of a structure used as a
security quarters, the maximum height of a self-service storage facility shall
be one story. The height of the building shall not exceed twenty feet (20'),
except for any architectural features located along the street entrance to the
facility. In addition, a parapet wall shall be constructed to screen roof
mounted air conditioning and other equipment, if any. The combined height of
the building and the parapet wall shall not exceed twenty five feet (25').
   I.   Parking Requirements: See
chapter 9.33, "Parking And Loading Regulations", of this title for ministorage
parking requirements.
   J.   Miscellaneous Requirements:
      1.   Outdoor Lighting: All outdoor lighting shall meet the requirements
of title 8,
 chapter 8.70, "Outdoor Lighting", of this code.
      2.   Loudspeakers: Exterior loudspeakers or paging equipment shall not be
permitted on the site.
      3.   Bay Doors: Storage bay doors shall not face any abutting property
which is residentially zoned, nor shall they be visible from any adjacent
residential property or any street right of way.
      4.   Barbed Wire: Barbed or similar wire may be used for security
purposes, but it shall not be visible from any adjacent residential property or
any street right of way.
      5.   Architectural Treatment: The exterior facades of all structures
shall receive uniform architectural treatment, including stucco and painting of
surfaces. All structures adjacent to properties designated with a residential
land use shall have a pitched roof or other treatment comparable to the
adjacent residential development. (Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
9.14.070: RECYCLING FACILITIES:
   A.   Purpose: This section provides locational, developmental, and
operational standards for various types of recycling facilities (e.g., reverse
vending machine(s) and small collection facilities).
   B.   Applicability: The provisions in this section shall apply to "recycling
facilities" as defined in article 7, "Definitions", of this title and where
allowed in compliance with this article 2 and the following standards.
   C.   Town Locational, Developmental, And Operational Standards:
      1.   Reverse Vending Machine(s): Reverse vending machine(s) intended
solely for recycling purposes shall be allowed in compliance with all of the
following standards:
         a.   The machines shall be installed as an accessory use in compliance
with the applicable provisions of this development code and shall not require
additional parking.
         b.   If located inside the primary structure, the machines shall be
within thirty feet (30') of the entrance and shall not obstruct pedestrian
circulation.
         c.   If located outside the primary structure, the number of machines
shall be limited to a maximum of two (2), shall not occupy required parking
spaces, shall be constructed of durable waterproof and rustproof material(s),
and shall be placed in a manner that is properly designed and constructed in
terms of architectural treatment and security from vandalism, subject to the
approval of the director.
         d.   The machines shall not exceed a floor or ground area of fifty
(50) square feet for each installation, including any protective enclosure, nor
eight feet (8') in height.
         e.   The machines shall have a maximum sign area of four (4) square
feet for each machine, exclusive of operating instructions.
         f.   The machines shall have operating hours which are consistent with
the operating hours of the primary use.
         g.   The area in front of the machines shall be illuminated to ensure
comfortable and safe operation, if operating hours are between dusk and dawn.
      2.   Small Collection Facilities: Small collection facilities shall be
allowed in compliance with all of the following standards:
         a.   The facility shall not exceed a floor or ground area of three
hundred fifty (350) square feet nor three (3) parking spaces, not including
space that would be periodically needed for the removal of materials or
exchange of containers.
         b.   The facility shall not use power driven processing equipment,
except for reverse vending machines. The director may allow an exception to
this processing equipment limitation through the special use permit process in
compliance with
 chapter 9.69 of this title.
         c.   The facility shall not be located within one hundred feet (100')
of any parcel zoned or occupied for residential use. The director may modify
this location limitation through the special use permit process in compliance
with
chapter 9.69 of this title.
         d.   The facility shall be set back at least ten feet (10') from any
public right of way, and not obstruct vehicular or pedestrian circulation.
         e.   The facility shall accept only glass, metal, or plastic
containers, which have a CRV value, and other household beverage containers
(i.e., plastic milk containers, wine bottles, etc.).
         f.   All recycled items shall be stored within a fully enclosed
structure which is designed and constructed to ensure against unauthorized
removal of the items. The structure and containers within the structure shall
be of a capacity sufficient to accommodate the items collected and the
collection schedule. Outdoor storage of recycled items shall be prohibited.
         g.   The fully enclosed structure, the collection containers, and site
fencing shall be of a color and design that would be compatible and harmonious
with the character of their location, subject to the review and approval of the
director. Landscaping and other appropriate screening may be required on a case
by case basis as a condition to the required special use permit approval.
         h.   Signs may only be provided as follows:
            (1)   Recycling facilities may have identification signs with a
maximum area of fifteen percent (15%) for each side of the structure or twelve
(12) square feet, whichever is greater.
            (2)   Signs shall be both compatible and harmonious with the
character of their location and in compliance with
 chapter 9.36, "Sign Regulations", of this title.
            (3)   Directional signs without advertising messages may be
installed with the approval of the director.
         i.   Additional parking spaces shall not be required for customers of
a small collection facility located in the established parking lot of the
primary use.
         j.   Mobile recycling units shall have an area clearly marked to
prohibit other vehicular parking during hours when the mobile unit is scheduled
to be present. The mobile recycling units shall only be parked within the
marked area.
         k.   Use of parking spaces by the patrons and the attendant shall not
reduce available parking spaces below the minimum number required for the
primary use. (Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
9.14.080: SWAP MEETS:
   A.   Purpose: This section provides standards for the establishment and
operation of swap meets and flea market facilities.
   B.   Applicability: The standards in this section apply to swap meets where
allowed in nonresidential districts, in compliance with
chapter 9.09 , "Commercial Districts", of this article 2.
   C.   Development Standards:
      1.   No swap meets shall be allowed on any land that is adjacent to or
abutting either SR-62 or SR-247 unless the sales activity is a minimum of four
hundred feet (400') from any property line adjacent to either highway.
      2.   In a commercial land use district, any sales activity, excluding
parking shall be a minimum of two hundred feet (200') from any parcel zoned
single-family residential (RS), rural living (RL), hillside reserve (HR), or
multi-family residential (RM).
   D.   Design Standards:
      1.   Permanent restroom facilities shall be provided in accordance with
the California building code and the San Bernardino County health department
requirements.
      2.   The sales area shall be distinctly defined in either the form of
fencing or vegetation or in a manner as approved by the town. Landscape screen
shall be encouraged.
      3.   Parking and parking lot landscaping shall be provided in accordance
with
chapter 9.33 , "Parking And Loading Regulations", of this title. Additional
landscaping will be required along all street right of way.
      4.   Minimum parcel size shall be five (5) acres.
      5.   No direct access to a swap meet will be permitted from either SR-62
or SR-247, but shall be restricted to nonhighway streets. (Ord. 253, 12-16-
2014; amd. Ord. 326, 2-4-2025)
9.14.090:   COMMERCIAL SIDEWALK DISPLAYS:
   A.   Commercial sidewalk displays shall be subject to approval by a
Commercial Sidewalk Display Application reviewed by the Planning Commission for
new commercial projects, as well as existing commercial buildings.
      1.   The maximum height of a commercial sidewalk display shall be no more
than six feet (6').
      2.   The maximum width of a commercial sidewalk display shall not exceed
five feet (5'). The maximum depth shall not exceed two feet (2').
      3.   Commercial sidewalk displays shall be located no more than six
inches (6") from the main face or front of a commercial building.
      4.   Commercial sidewalk displays shall not impede or block Americans
with Disabilities Act (ADA) access.
      5.   Commercial sidewalk displays shall not remain outdoors outside of
business hours of the subject business. Commercial sidewalk displays shall be
removed between the hours of 10:00 P.M. and 7:00 A.M.
      6.   Commercial sidewalk displays shall not include any commercial
signage.
      7.   Commercial sidewalk displays shall not include any light or sound
producing items or devices.
      8.   Displays shall be stable and weighted or constructed to withstand
being overturned by wind or contact.
      9.   Stores with double-frontage (e.g., corner lot) shall not combine
their allotment of space to create a larger space than normally allowed.
      10.   Exemptions: Provided that the commercial outdoor display area does
not exceed twenty-five percent (25%) of the frontage of the primary structure,
does not encroach on ADA access, obstruct any curb ramp or crosswalk, parking
area or driveway, or landscape area; the following displays are exempt from the
requirements of this chapter:
         a.   Self-service vending machines, including but not limited to
newspaper/magazine stands, water dispenser, and ice dispenser.
         b.   Firewood display.
         c.   Retail propane storage.
         d.   Other permanent outdoor displays and permanent outdoor display
areas accessory to a permitted use authorized by prior entitlement, such that
the display area is not expanded. (Ord. 327, 2-4-2025)
9.14.100:   FARMERS' MARKETS:
   A.   Purpose: This section provides standards for the establishment and
operation of farmers' market facilities.
   B.   Applicability: The standards in this section apply to farmers' markets
where allowed in nonresidential districts, in compliance with
chapter 9.09 , "Commercial Districts", of this article 2.
   C.   Development Standards:
      1.   No farmers' markets shall be allowed on any land that is adjacent to
or abutting either SR-62 or SR-247 unless the sales activity is a minimum of
twenty-five (25') from any property line adjacent to either highway.
      2.   In a commercial land use district, any sales activity, excluding
parking shall be a minimum of two hundred feet (200') from any parcel zoned
single-family residential (RS), rural living (RL), hillside reserve (HR), or
multi-family residential (RM).
   D.   Design Standards:
      1.   Permanent restroom facilities shall be provided in accordance with
the California building code and the San Bernardino County health department
requirements.
      2.   The sales area shall be distinctly defined in either the form of
fencing or vegetation or in a manner as approved by the town. Landscape screen
shall be encouraged.
      3.   Minimum parcel size shall be two (2) acres. (Ord. 326, 2-4-2025)
CHAPTER 9.15
OVERLAY DISTRICTS
SECTION:
9.15.010: Purpose
9.15.020: Overlay Districts
9.15.030: Zoning Map Designator
9.15.010: PURPOSE:
The overlay districts established by this article 2 supplement the use
regulations and/or development standards of the applicable underlying base
zone, where important site, neighborhood, or area characteristics require
particular attention in project planning. In the event of a conflict between
the regulations of the underlying base zoning district and the overlay zoning
district, the provisions of the overlay zoning district shall govern. The
provisions of this chapter shall apply to all projects located in a designated
overlay district. (Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
9.15.020: OVERLAY DISTRICTS:
The following are the overlay districts:
   Airport safety overlay district
   Fire safety overlay district
   Floodplain safety overlay district
   Geologic and seismic hazards overlay district
   Hillside overlay district
   Large animal overlay district
   Specific plan overlay district
(Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
9.15.030: ZONING MAP DESIGNATOR:
Overlay district(s) shall be designated by a representative symbol on the
zoning map along with the base zoning district with which it is combined. See
table 2-24 of this section for overlay districts zoning map designator:
   TABLE 2-24
   OVERLAY DISTRICT ZONING MAP DESIGNATOR
Overlay District Zoning Map Designator
Overlay District                              Zoning Map Designator
Airport safety overlay district               AR1, AR2, AR3
Fire safety overlay district                  FS
Floodplain safety overlay district            FP1, FP2, FP3
Geologic and seismic hazards overlay district GH
Hillside overlay district                     HS
Large animal overlay district                 LA
Specific plan overlay district                SP
 
(Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
CHAPTER 9.16
AIRPORT SAFETY OVERLAY DISTRICT
SECTION:
9.16.010: Purpose
9.16.020: Location Requirements
9.16.030: Airport Safety Review Areas
9.16.040: Applicable Airport Comprehensive Land Use Plans
9.16.050: Review Procedures
9.16.060: Development Standards
9.16.010: PURPOSE:
The airport safety (AR) overlay established by section
9.05.030, "Establishment Of Base Zoning And Overlay Districts", and
 chapter 9.15, "Overlay Districts", of this article 2, is created to provide
greater safety to aviators and the general public by establishing requirements
for land use compatibility reviews within designated areas in close proximity
to a public use airport or heliport. (Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
9.16.020: LOCATION REQUIREMENTS:
Airport safety (AR) overlay boundaries are designated on the zoning map by the
symbols AR1, AR2, and AR3, as defined in the following section.
   A.   Area within an adopted airport comprehensive land use plan for a public
use airport;
   B.   Area within a low altitude/high speed corridor designated for military
aircraft operations. (Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
9.16.030: AIRPORT SAFETY REVIEW AREAS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following airport safety review areas are
established:
   A.   Airport Safety Review Area 1 (AR1): AR1 includes the areas at either
end of a runway, outside the airport boundaries, that correspond with the FAA
runway protection zone (per FAR part 152) for each runway end. AR1 also
includes any area identified by an interim airport land use plan as a crash
hazard zone, or as a touchdown pad and peripheral area for a heliport.
   B.   Airport Safety Review Area 2 (AR2): AR2 includes the areas within the
adopted 65 CNEL (community noise equivalency level) or Ldn (day-night average
sound level) noise contours.
   C.   Airport Safety Review Area 3 (AR3): AR3 includes one of the following
areas, as applicable:
      1.   Public Use Airport With Adopted Noise Contours: For a public use
airport with adopted noise contours, AR3 includes the area within one mile
outside the sixty five (65) Ldn noise contour, encompassing the boundaries
prescribed in FAR part 77 that depict imaginary surfaces for "objects affecting
navigable airspace", as applicable to the specific FAA approved airport layout
and approach plan. The imaginary surfaces are as follows:
         a.   Approach surface: Extending outward and upward from the end of
the primary runway surface along a slope of twenty to one (20:1) and extending
for a horizontal distance of five thousand feet (5,000'). (Slope and distances
increase depending on precise approach existing or planned for the particular
runway.)
         b.   Horizontal surface: A horizontal plane one hundred fifty feet
(150') above the established airport elevation. The perimeter is constructed by
swinging arcs of five thousand feet (5,000') (10,000 feet for runways other
than utility or visual) radii from the center of each of the primary runway
surfaces (i.e., beginning points of safety review area 1) and connecting the
adjacent arcs by lines tangent to the arcs.
         c.   Conical surface: A surface extending outward and upward from the
periphery of the horizontal surface at a slope of twenty to one (20:1) for a
horizontal distance of four thousand feet (4,000').
      2.   Public Use Airport Without Adopted Noise Contours: For a public use
airport without adopted noise contours (e.g., 65 Ldn), AR3 includes the area
within one mile of the outer boundaries of the airport ownership.
      3.   Heliports: The area outside the 65 Ldn noise contour for a heliport
but within one-half (1/2) mile of the line. (Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
9.16.040: APPLICABLE AIRPORT COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLANS:
   A.   This section lists the airport comprehensive land use plans with which
development in compliance with this chapter shall be consistent.
      1.   Airport comprehensive land use plan - Yucca Valley Airport. (Ord.
253, 12-16-2014)
9.16.050: REVIEW PROCEDURES:
   A.   Public Hearing: In addition to all other requirements of this
development code that require a public hearing before a decision on a land use
application, public hearing review is also required when a proposed use is
inconsistent with the comprehensive land use compatibility criteria of the
applicable airport comprehensive land use plan.
   B.   Required Findings: The approval of a land use application for a
proposed expansion, revision, or establishment of airport or heliport
facilities within an airport safety review area shall require that the review
authority first find that the proposal is consistent with the general plan, and
the findings, development standards and review procedures of this chapter.
   C.   Land Use Approval: Land use approval for any project found to be
inconsistent with an adopted airport comprehensive land use plan shall be
reviewed and acted upon by the town in the form of a minute order or
resolution, in compliance with Public Utilities Code section 21661.5, and the
state department of transportation shall be provided a copy of the minute order
or resolution.
   D.   Conditions Of Approval: Any requirements resulting from project review
in compliance with this section shall be incorporated into the project design
and conditions of approval. (Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
9.16.060: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
The following standards and criteria shall apply to each development or land
use proposed within an AR overlay or an airport safety review area, in addition
to any standards required by the applicable airport comprehensive land use
plan:
   A.   Allowed Land Uses: Each proposed use shall be consistent with the
general plan, any applicable airport land use plan, and this section; provided
that no permanent structure or use shall be allowed within airport safety
review area 1.
   B.   Height Limits: Proposed structures and the normal mature height of any
vegetation shall not exceed the height limitations established in federal
aviation regulations (FAR) part 77, unless form 7460-1 (notice of proposed
construction or alteration) has been filed with and approved by the FAA before
the issuance of a building permit. All mitigation measures recommended by the
FAA shall be incorporated into the project conditions of approval. Existing
topographic elevations, as compared to the elevation of the centerline of the
runway, shall be considered in determining the permitted height of an affected
structure.
For heliports, structures and the normal mature height of any vegetation
adjacent to the helipad shall not exceed the height limitations provided by the
requirements of federal aviation regulations (FAR) part 77 for heliports.
   C.   Interference With Aircraft Operations: The proposed use or structure
shall not reflect glare, emit electronic interference, produce smoke, or store
or dispense hazardous materials in such a manner that would endanger aircraft
operations or public safety in the event of an aircraft accident.
For heliports, uses or structures adjacent to the helipad shall not reflect
glare, emit electronic interference, produce smoke, or store or dispense
hazardous materials in such a manner that would endanger aircraft operations or
public safety in the event of an aircraft accident.
   D.   Federal And State Requirements: Each airport and heliport shall be
constructed in compliance with FAA requirements and the requirements of
applicable state law.
   E.   Noise Standards: Noise level reduction shall be designed and
constructed in all structures to maintain maximum interior noise level of forty
five (45) dBA for residential uses, and fifty five (55) dBA for commercial and
industrial uses.
   F.   Easements: An avigation easement acknowledging potential noise and
safety impacts and limitations on heights and lighting shall be granted to the
appropriate airport and recorded at sale of property for those uses established
within an AR1, AR2, or AR3. A copy of the easement shall be forwarded to the
town and the affected airport.
   G.   Notifications By Property Owner: The property owner shall provide to
all renters, lessees or buyers information that the site is subject to aircraft
overflight from the applicable airport, is subject to the potential noise
problems associated with aircraft operations, and is subject to an avigation
easement. The information shall be provided before completion of the rental,
lease or sale, and shall be incorporated into the CC&Rs recorded with the
property and in all lease and rental agreements. (Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
CHAPTER 9.17
FIRE SAFETY OVERLAY DISTRICT
SECTION:
9.17.010: Purpose
9.17.020: Location Requirements
9.17.030: Fire Safety Area (FS)
9.17.040: Application Requirements
9.17.050: Fire Safety Development Standards
9.17.060: Alternate Hazard Protection Measures
9.17.010: PURPOSE:
The fire safety (FS) overlay established by section
9.05.030, "Establishment Of Base Zoning And Overlay Districts", and
 chapter 9.15, "Overlay Districts", of this article 2 is created to provide
greater public safety in areas prone to wildland brushfires, by establishing
additional development standards for these areas. (Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
9.17.020: LOCATION REQUIREMENTS:
The FS overlay shall be designated in high fire hazard areas as mapped on the
general plan fire hazards map with the locations derived from the California
department of forestry, U.S. forest service, and the county fire department.
(Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
9.17.030: FIRE SAFETY AREA (FS):
The FS overlay corresponds to a distinct geographic area that is associated as
a wildland fire hazard. The requirements applicable to each fire safety area
are found in section
9.17.050, "Fire Safety Development Standards", of this chapter.
   A.   Fire Safety Area (FS): Fire safety area includes those lands that have
gentle to moderate sloping terrain and contain light to moderate fuel loading.
These areas are periodically subject to high wind conditions that have the
potential of dramatically spreading wildland fires. (Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
9.17.040: APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Notice Of Application Or Permit: A notice of each land use application
and/or development permit that would lead to the construction of one or more
structures or the subdivision of land within the FS overlay shall be sent to
the responsible fire authority for comment.
   B.   Review Authorities: Each proposed land use application that would lead
to the construction or expansion of a structure or the subdivision of land
shall be submitted to the responsible fire authority for review and
recommendation. Any recommendations received shall be indicated in any staff
report and/or presentation for the proposed development and shall be
incorporated into project conditions of approval where possible.
   C.   Density Bonus: A residential density bonus, if any, shall only be
allowed through the approval of a planned development permit in compliance with
chapter 9.67, "Planned Development Permits", of this title, which shall
consider impacts of fire safety.
   D.   Subdivisions: When twenty five percent (25%) or more of a subdivision
project site involving five (5) or more lots is located on natural slopes
greater than thirty percent (30%), the subdivision application shall be
submitted concurrently with a planned development application to evaluate
appropriate project design in consideration of topographic limitations of the
site. This provision shall not apply if all of the areas on the site with
natural ungraded slopes over thirty percent (30%) are permanently restricted
from structural development.
   E.   Application Requirements: Each land use and other project application
shall include the following information and materials:
      1.   Slope Analysis: Each project application shall include a slope
analysis. The slope analysis shall include the following information:
         a.   A topographic map of the proposed project area and all adjoining
properties within one hundred fifty feet (150') at a scale of not less than one
inch to two hundred feet (1" - 200'). The contour interval shall not be more
than two feet (2') except that the contour interval may be five feet (5') if
the general natural ungraded slope is more than ten percent (10%). Contour
lines shall be obtained by aerial or field survey, done under the supervision
of a licensed land surveyor or registered engineer.
         b.   The natural, ungraded, slope categories to be computed are zero
percent (0%) to less than fifteen percent (<15%), fifteen percent (15%) to less
than thirty percent (<30%), thirty percent (30%) to less than forty percent
(<40%), and forty percent (40%) and greater. The minimum area (polygon) used
for slope calculation shall be five thousand (5,000) square feet.
         c.   The area, in acres, shall be tabulated for each category.
      2.   Preliminary Grading Plan: Each project application shall include a
preliminary grading plan, except that preliminary grading plan requirements may
be waived by the director if it is determined through the required
preapplication conference that this requirement is unnecessary due to site
specific soils, topographic or other physical conditions, or due to the
specific design of the project. The preliminary grading plan shall include the
following information:
         a.   A topographic map of the proposed project area and all adjoining
properties within one hundred fifty feet (150') at a scale of not less than one
inch to two hundred feet (1" = 200'). The contour interval shall not be more
than two feet (2') except that the contour interval may be five feet (5') if
the natural ungraded slope is more than ten percent (10%). Contour lines shall
be obtained by aerial or field survey, done under the supervision of a licensed
land surveyor or registered engineer.
         b.   Contours of the finished graded slope shown at intervals similar
to that on the topographic base map.
         c.   Street grades, slope ratios, flow lines, pad elevations, maximum
elevation of top and minimum elevation of toe of finished slopes over five feet
(5') in vertical height, the maximum heights of those slopes and approximate
total cubic yards of cut and fill shown on the preliminary grading plan.
         d.   Compliance with the current edition of the California building
code, as adopted by the town, is required.
         e.   In the event no grading is proposed, a statement to that effect
shall be placed on the required topographic map described in subsection E1a of
this section, and the map shall delineate the boundary of an adequately sized
building pad, driveway and septic system (if proposed) for each proposed
parcel.
      3.   Fuel Modification Plan: Each project application shall include a
fuel modification plan describing the fuel modification area required in
subsection
9.17.050D6 of this chapter. The plan may be submitted as a preliminary and
final plan. A preliminary and/or final plan shall be submitted concurrently
with the development application to the department for review in conjunction
with the project design review. Final plans shall be reviewed and approved by
the responsible fire authority in conjunction with the county fire marshal. The
fuel modification plan shall address the standards in subsection
9.17.050D6 of this chapter, and the following factors:
         a.   The natural ungraded slope of the land within the project and in
the areas adjacent to the project;
         b.   Fuel loading;
         c.   Access to the project and access directly to the fuel modified
area;
         d.   The on site availability of water that can be used for
firefighting purposes;
         e.   The continual maintenance of the fuel modified areas;
         f.   The soil erosion and sediment control measures to alleviate
permanent scarring and accelerated erosion; and
         g.   A list of recommended landscape plant materials that are fire
resistant. (Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
9.17.050: FIRE SAFETY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
Development proposed in fire safety overlays shall comply with all applicable
requirements of this section.
   A.   Fire Authority Standards: All proposed development shall comply with
all other applicable standards required by the San Bernardino County fire
department. This shall include the standards and provisions of the California
building code (CBC) chapter 7A (Materials And Construction Methods For Exterior
Wildfire Exposure) and California fire code as amended by county ordinance
adopting California fire code, which is included in this code by reference.
   B.   Applicability Of Zoning District Standards And Overlay Standards: The
development standards established by a zoning district and any applicable
overlay shall apply, except as modified by this chapter.
   C.   Residential Density: In order to reduce fire hazards, prevent erosion,
and to preserve the existing vegetation and visual quality, the density of
development for any tentative parcel map or tentative tract map in sloping
hillside areas shall be in compliance with the following criteria:
      1.   One to four (4) dwelling units per gross acre on slopes of zero to
less than fifteen percent (0 - <15%);
      2.   Two (2) dwelling units per gross acre on slopes of fifteen to less
than thirty percent (15 - <30%);
      3.   One dwelling unit per three (3) gross acres on slopes of greater
than thirty to less than forty percent (>30 - <40%) gradient;
      4.   One dwelling unit per ten (10) gross acres on slopes of forty
percent (40%) or greater gradient.
   D.   Site Development Requirements:
      1.   Site And Emergency Access: Each development project and each
development project phase, except for a development project located exclusively
on a cul-de-sac, shall have a minimum of two (2) points of vehicular ingress
and egress, designed to town road standards, with a minimum width of twenty six
feet (26') of all weather surface as defined in the California fire code, from
existing and surrounding streets. The department may authorize one point of
vehicular access to be an emergency access route with an all weather surface if
the department first makes each of the following findings:
         a.   Two (2) points of nonemergency access are physically infeasible;
         b.   Provisions have been made to reasonably ensure that the emergency
access will be maintained; and
         c.   Based on the review and consideration of the fire authority's
recommendation, the emergency access route will provide adequate vehicular
ingress and egress during emergencies.
      2.   Private Driveways Or Access Roadways: Private driveways or access
roadways for residential units shall not exceed one hundred fifty feet (150')
in length, unless approved by the fire authority in compliance with section
10.207 of the California fire code.
      3.   Fences:
         a.   Where wood or vinyl fencing is used, there shall be a minimum
five foot (5') separation between the wood or vinyl fencing and the wall of the
nearest structure except on those properties where previous construction
occurred in compliance with a previous code. Fencing within the five foot (5')
separation area shall be of noncombustible material or modified one hour fire
resistance rated construction.
         b.   Fences or walls required adjacent to fuel modification areas or
wildland areas as conditions of approval for a development project shall be
constructed of noncombustible materials as defined in the California building
code. All other fences, including those on the interior of a development
project, are not subject to this requirement, except as required in subsection
D3a of this section.
         c.   Where side and rear yards are enclosed by fencing, gates shall be
provided on both side yards for emergency access to the rear yard.
      4.   Water Supply: Each development project shall provide six inch (6")
or larger circulating (loop) water mains as required by the California fire
code, proper hydrant location and spacing, and have sufficient water storage
capacity to provide the minimum fire flow duration requirements (gallons per
minute (GPM) for a minimum number of hours or portions thereof) as specified by
the minimum system standards established by the fire authority. Circulating
(loop) mains are not required for cul-de-sacs and are not required for
subdivisions that exclusively take all access from cul-de-sacs. In areas not
served by water purveyors, on site fire flow and water storage requirements
shall be as specified by the California fire code.
      5.   Access To Water Supplies: There shall be vehicular access, at least
twelve feet (12') in width, to within at least ten feet (10') of each static
water source, including ponds, lakes, swimming pools, reservoirs and water
storage tanks. Access shall be either to a plumbed outlet with two and one-half
inch (21/2") National Hose thread fitting, or directly to the source. This
requirement shall be waived if the fire authority determines that the water
source is sufficiently below the elevation of existing or proposed roads or
driveways to make drafting of water from the source through a plumbed outlet
infeasible, and that direct vehicular access to the water source would require
an impractical extension of a road or driveway.
      6.   Fuel Modification Areas:
         a.   A permanent fuel modification area shall be required around a
development project or portions thereof that are adjacent or exposed to
hazardous fire areas for the purpose of fire protection. In no case shall this
area be less than one hundred feet (100') in width as measured from the
development perimeter. Where feasible, the area shall be designated as common
open space rather than private open space. The recommended width of the fuel
modification area shall be determined based on a fuel modification plan filed
in compliance with subsection
9.17.040E3 "Fuel Modification Plan", of this chapter.
         b.   When a development project is phased, individual phases may be
required to provide temporary fuel modification areas, where the development
perimeter of a phase is contiguous to a subsequent phase of a project, which in
its undeveloped state is a hazardous fire area. The need for a temporary fuel
modification area shall be determined by the responsible fire authority in
conjunction with the county fire marshal and shall be based upon the same
considerations described in subsection D6a of this section, for permanent fuel
modification areas and the factors addressed in the required fuel modification
plan.
      7.   Setback Requirements: Each proposed structure shall comply with the
following setback requirements as applicable, in addition to the setbacks
required by the applicable primary zoning district, and the building separation
requirements in subsection E of this section (building separation).
         a.   Firewood Or Flammable Materials Storage: Each area used for the
storage of firewood, or other flammable materials, shall either be located at
least thirty feet (30') away from all structures, or wholly enclosed within a
structure.
         b.   Fuel Tanks: Fuel tanks (e.g., liquefied petroleum tanks) shall be
located at least ten feet (10') away from any structure and shall be in
compliance with the standards in the California fire code. The tanks shall be
secured to the ground.
         c.   Sloping Site Setbacks Or Fuel Modification: Each structure
proposed in an area with slopes exceeding thirty percent (30%) and thirty feet
(30') in height shall comply with the following requirements:
            (1)   Where a structure is existing or proposed within two hundred
feet (200') of a slope that is greater than thirty percent (30%) before grading
and where the slope is at least thirty feet (30') in height, the vegetation on
the slopes shall be treated in a manner so that it becomes a fuel modified
area. The fuel modified area shall be maintained for either the entire slope,
or one hundred feet (100'), or to the property line, whichever distance is less
for existing parcels or the distance prescribed by a fuel modification plan for
new development.
            (2)   Where grading is utilized that does not conform to the
natural slope and the graded area is adjacent to natural ungraded slopes that
are greater than thirty percent (30%) in gradient and greater than thirty feet
(30') in height, each structure shall be set back at least thirty feet (30')
from the edges of the graded area adjacent to the natural ungraded slopes.
      8.   Street Name Signs: All public or private streets within or bordering
a development project shall have noncombustible and reflective street name
signs designed to town standards and visible at all street intersections.
      9.   Fire Hydrant Identification: Each fire hydrant shall be identified
by a method specified by the fire authority.
      10.   Erosion And Sediment Control: Each development project, building
permit, grading and any other significant land disturbing activity shall
include the installation of erosion control measures in compliance with this
development code.
      11.   Concealed Spaces: Unenclosed or projecting assemblies (e.g.,
cantilevered floors, bay windows, etc.) that contain concealed space shall be
protected on the exposed surface with materials approved for the modified one
hour construction.
      12.   Decks: Cantilevered or standard type decks shall be:
         a.   Constructed with a minimum of at least one and one-half inch (11/
2") wood decking; and/or
         b.   Protected on the underside with materials approved for one hour
fire resistive construction; and/or
         c.   Composed of noncombustible materials, as defined in the
California building code, or other materials approved by the responsible fire
authority.
      13.   Exposed Piping: Exposed piping, except for plumbing vents above the
roof, shall be noncombustible as defined in the California building code.
   E.   Building Separation Standards: The intent of the following exterior
wall separation standards is to reduce the exposure and risk from adjacent
structural fires and to reduce the potential spread of fire from structure to
structure.
      1.   Building Separation: In fire safety areas, the following shall
apply:
         a.   Each building on a parcel shall have exterior wall separations of
at least thirty feet (30') except as modified by subsection E1c of this
section.
         b.   Residential structures shall have interior side yard setbacks of
twenty percent (20%) of the lot width, provided that these interior side yards
shall not be less than five feet (5') and need not exceed fifteen feet (15').
In no case shall exterior wall separations be less than ten feet (10') for all
buildings, including those on adjoining parcels. Eaves shall be permitted to
project into the required setback no more than two feet (2'). No other
projections shall be allowed less than five feet (5') to side or rear property
lines.
         c.   When the exterior walls of residential and accessory buildings or
portions thereof are within fifteen feet (15') of interior side or rear lot
lines, or the exterior wall separation is less than thirty feet (30'), the
outside of each exterior wall or portion thereof shall be constructed with
exterior wall coverings that are constructed of noncombustible materials or
provide the one hour fire resistance rated construction on the exterior side.
Modified one hour construction shall be defined by the building official. Where
building separations are less than ten feet (10'), additional mitigation
measures may be required by the responsible fire authority.
         d.   In compliance with section
9.17.060, "Alternate Hazard Protection Measures", of this chapter, and
dependent upon site specific conditions, the following measures or combinations
of measures may be substituted for the exterior wall separation requirements
for all structures in fire safety areas:
            (1)   The expansion of fuel modified areas around the perimeter of
the development project beyond that required by this section or other
requirement of the development code.
            (2)   A substantial transfer of density from steeper slopes,
including areas with slopes less than thirty percent (30%) if they exist on
site, to less steep areas within the development project.
            (3)   Clustering of structures away from the development perimeter
and away from fire hazard areas.
            (4)   Other alternate measures (e.g., sprinklers, etc.) if approved
by the department in compliance with section
9.17.060, "Alternate Hazard Protection Measures", of this chapter.
   F.   Building Construction Requirements:
      1.   Eaves: Eaves shall be enclosed with a minimum seven-eighths inch (7/
8") stucco or equivalent protection. Fascia shall be two inches (2") nominal
solid wood or stucco or equivalent protection.
      2.   Exterior Doors: All exterior doors made of wood or wood portions
shall be solid core wood. For exterior doors with inset windows, refer to
subsection F3a of this section.
      3.   Exterior Glazing: Exterior glazing shall comply with the provisions
of the California building code and with the following additional requirements:
         a.   Exterior windows, window walls and glazed doors, and windows
within exterior doors, shall be multilayered glass panels (dual or triple
paned), tempered glass, or other assemblies approved by the building official.
         b.   Vinyl window frame assemblies shall be prohibited, except when
they have all of the following characteristics:
            (1)   Frame and sash are comprised of vinyl material with welded
corners;
            (2)   Metal reinforcement in the interlock area;
            (3)   Glazed with insulated glass or tempered;
            (4)   Frame and sash profiles are certified in American
Architectural Manufacturing Association (AAMA) linear certification program
(verified with either an AAMA product label or certified products directory);
and
            (5)   Certified and labeled in compliance with American National
Standards Institute (ANSI)/AAMA/National Wood Window And Door Association
(NWWDA) structural requirements.
      4.   Insulation: Paper faced insulation shall be allowed in attics or
ventilated spaces only if the paper is not exposed to the attic open space.
Cellulose insulation is required to be fire retardant.
      5.   Roof Coverings: Roof coverings shall be either noncombustible or
shall be fire retardant material not composed of organic fiber with a minimum
class A rating, as defined in the California building code. The tile shall be
tightfitting and the open ends of high profile tile shall be capped with
nonignitable material to prevent birds' nests or other combustible material
from accumulating. Gutters and downspouts shall be constructed of
noncombustible material.
      6.   Spark Arresters: Each chimney used in conjunction with a fireplace,
or other heating appliance in which solid or liquid fuel is used, shall be
maintained with a spark arrester. An "approved spark arrester" shall mean a
device constructed of stainless steel, copper or brass, woven galvanized wire
mesh, 12-gauge minimum of three-eighths inch (3/8") minimum to one-half inch
(1/2") maximum openings, mounted in or over all outside flue openings in a
vertical and near vertical position, adequately supported to prevent movement
and visible from the ground.
      7.   Street Address Numbers: Each nonaccessory building shall have
internally illuminated noncombustible building address numbers legible from the
street in compliance with the California fire code.
      8.   Vents And Openings: Louvers, ventilators, or openings in walls,
roofs, attics, and underfloor areas having headroom less than four feet (4') in
height that are not fitted with sash or doors, shall be covered with wire
screen. The screen covering the openings shall be corrosion resistant metal or
other approved material that offers equivalent protection and shall have a
maximum mesh of one-eighth inch (1/8"). Eave vents and roof mounted turbine
vents are prohibited.
      9.   Water Faucets: A minimum of two (2) 3/4-inch faucets with hose
connections each served by a three-fourths inch (3/4") waterline and installed
before any pressure reducing device shall be available per habitable structure
separated by at least one-third (1/3) of the perimeter of the structure. The
faucets shall be on the sides of a structure facing fire hazardous areas
whenever possible.
   G.   Perimeter Access To Fuel Modified And Fire Hazard Areas: Firefighting
vehicles shall have adequate access into areas between fire hazardous areas or
fuel modified areas and the development perimeter, so that a wildland fire can
be contained at the development perimeter and prevented from spreading to
structures. Each development project shall provide adequate vehicular access
for firefighting vehicles to the development perimeter of the project along the
portion of the development perimeter that is adjacent to either an existing or
proposed fuel modified area, or a fire hazard area. Provisions shall be made
and shall be required, where necessary, through conditions of approval for the
development project for the continual maintenance of the areas intended to
provide the access. Perimeter access shall be provided, through either of the
following measures or through alternate measures in compliance with section
9.17.060, "Alternate Hazard Protection Measures", of this chapter:
      1.   The provision of an existing or proposed road along the development
perimeter, or portion thereof that is exposed to a fire hazard or fuel modified
area, and which is accessible to firefighting equipment. The road shall be
capable of supporting firefighting equipment, shall be at least twenty feet
(20') in width, and shall not exceed a grade of fourteen percent (14%). The
conditions of approval for the development project shall require provisions to
ensure that the roadway will be maintained, if it is not within the publicly
maintained road system.
      2.   Development projects shall provide accessways, at least twelve feet
(12') in width, with a grade not to exceed fourteen percent (14%), and capable
of supporting firefighting vehicles, between the development perimeter and
proposed or existing streets. Accessways shall be spaced at intervals of no
more than an average of three hundred fifty feet (350') along each street. The
conditions of approval for the development project shall require specific
provisions to ensure that accessways will remain unobstructed and will be
maintained. Where feasible, accessways may not be paved and shall be designed
so as not to detract from the visual quality of the project.
   H.   Length Of Cul-De-Sacs: Cul-de-sacs shall not exceed three hundred fifty
feet (350') in length, except that they may be extended as allowed by this
subsection.
      1.   Exception For Parcels Of Less Than Five Acres: A cul-de-sac may
exceed three hundred fifty feet (350') in length but shall not exceed six
hundred feet (600') in length, if parcels that take access from the cul-de-sac
are less than five (5) acres, and:
         a.   Alternate measures are utilized in compliance with section
9.17.060, "Alternate Hazard Protection Measures", of this chapter; or
         b.   Based upon consideration of the recommendation of the fire
authority, the department determines that the cul-de-sac is situated and
designed so that each parcel taking access from it is not contiguous to or
exposed to either undeveloped fuel modified areas along the development
perimeter of the project or to fire hazard areas, and that the extension of the
cul-de-sac will not increase the exposure of buildings to wildland fires.
      2.   Exception For Parcels Larger Than Five Acres: A cul-de-sac may
exceed six hundred feet (600') in length if all parcels that take access from
the cul-de-sac are five (5) acres or greater in area and:
         a.   The proposed cul-de-sac is not within or adjacent to areas that
are zoned for or subdivided to parcels of five (5) acres or less.
         b.   Alternate measures are utilized in compliance with section
9.17.060, "Alternate Hazard Protection Measures", of this chapter.
      3.   Alternate Measures: In compliance with section
9.17.060, "Alternate Hazard Protection Measures", of this chapter, and
dependent upon site specific conditions, one of the following measures or
combination of measures may be used to mitigate the effect of creating cul-de-
sacs up to six hundred feet (600') in length with parcels less than five (5)
acres in area:
         a.   Limitation of the total number of dwelling units with access to
the cul-de-sac to no more than fifteen (15), and restriction of further
subdivision of parcels and construction of additional independent residential
units which have access to the cul-de- sac. These restrictions shall be imposed
through conditions of approval of the development project.
         b.   A continuous perimeter access road at least twenty feet (20') in
width is provided along the portion of the cul-de-sac exposed to fire hazard or
fuel modified areas such that it is drivable under normal conditions by
firefighting vehicles, provides adequate maneuvering space for the vehicles,
and is designed so that at least one point of access to the perimeter access
road is taken from roads other than the subject cul-de-sac.
         c.   The cul-de-sac road will have a paved width of at least forty
feet (40') with posted no parking for its entire length, and there is at least
one area approximately at the midpoint of the cul-de-sac that serves the same
function of a cul-de-sac bulb in allowing firefighting vehicles adequate room
to turn around. This measure may only be utilized if the expansion of the road
width will not contribute to slope stability hazards either on site or off
site.
         d.   Other alternate measures approved by the department in compliance
with section
9.17.060, "Alternate Hazard Protection Measures", of this chapter.
   I.   Additional Requirements: Dependent upon specific site conditions (e.g.,
building separation, fire flow, road conditions, slope, vegetation, etc.) or a
combination of conditions, the responsible fire authority may require
structures to meet more stringent construction standards (e.g., full perimeter
exterior walls to be constructed to the modified or full 1 hour construction
standards, sprinklers, soffitted eaves, etc.) as additional mitigation to the
fire threat. (Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
9.17.060: ALTERNATE HAZARD PROTECTION MEASURES:
   A.   Purpose: This section allows greater design flexibility than would
otherwise be permitted to more efficiently and effectively achieve the purposes
of the FS overlay. Design flexibility is provided by allowing the substitution
of alternate measures for otherwise applicable requirements if it is found that
they provide the same or a greater level of protection from wildland fires and
other natural hazards, and that they will fulfill the same purpose as the
established standard or requirement.
   B.   Applicability:
      1.   The provisions of this section shall apply only to the standards and
requirements of:
         a.   Subsection
9.17.050E of this chapter (building separation standards in FS1 and 2 areas);
         b.   Subsection
9.17.050G, "Perimeter Access To Fuel Modified And Fire Hazard Areas", of this
chapter; and
         c.   Subsection
9.17.050H, "Length Of Cul-De-Sacs", of this chapter.
      2.   Since these alternative measures apply to the standards and
requirements that pertain to these three (3) specific design elements, they are
intended to be applied to development projects only and not to individual
parcel conditions. Therefore, they do not apply to the determination of
setbacks for residential construction on individual lots.
   C.   Substitution Of Alternative Measures For Standards And Requirements:
      1.   If alternative measures are proposed, the fire authority shall
determine, with specific consideration of the effect of the proposed
alternative measures, whether the proposed development project has adequate
provisions for fuel modification and management, including the ongoing
maintenance of fuel modified areas.
      2.   If the fire authority makes a positive determination in compliance
with subsection C1 of this section, alternate measures may be substituted for
the established standards and requirements if the department, with
consideration of the recommendation of the fire authority, finds and justifies
all of the following:
         a.   The approved alternative measures meet the intent of, and serve
the same purpose as, the established standard or requirement.
         b.   The approved alternative measures provide the same or a greater
level of protection or are as effective as the established standard or
requirement.
         c.   There are clear and substantial reasons for utilizing the
alternative measures because they provide for a more efficient and economic use
of the site, or provide for a superior physical design, and are consistent with
the intent of the fire safety area overlay. (Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
CHAPTER 9.18
FLOODPLAIN SAFETY OVERLAY DISTRICT
SECTION:
9.18.010: Purpose
9.18.020: Location Requirement
9.18.030: Applicability
9.18.040: Review Area Procedures And Standards
9.18.050: Development Standards
9.18.060: Exceptions And Modifications
9.18.070: Boundary Changes
9.18.010: PURPOSE:
The floodplain safety (FP) overlay established by section
9.05.030, "Establishment Of Base Zoning And Overlay Districts", and
chapter 9.15, "Overlay Districts", of this article 2, is created to provide
greater public safety, promote public health, and minimize public and private
economic losses due to flood conditions by establishing regulations for
development and construction within flood prone areas. (Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
9.18.020: LOCATION REQUIREMENT:
   A.   The FP1, FP2, and FP3 overlays described in section
9.18.040 of this chapter are applied to areas of special flood hazard
identified by the federal emergency management agency (FEMA) or the federal
insurance administration in a scientific and engineering report entitled "Flood
Insurance Study" for the county of San Bernardino, prepared in 1996, which has
subsequent updates, with accompanying flood insurance rate maps (FIRMs).
Subsequent report and map updates that may be published in the future shall
further identify additional flood hazard areas.
   B.   The flood insurance study establishes the minimum areas to which the FP
overlays may be applied. Additional areas may be added after studies for the
areas are prepared by the flood control district or other governmental agencies
(e.g., corps of engineers). (Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
9.18.030: APPLICABILITY:
No structure or land use shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted, or altered without full compliance with the provisions of this
chapter and other applicable regulations. Violations of the provisions of this
chapter by failure to comply with any of its requirements (including violation
of conditions and safeguards required by conditions of approval) shall be
subject to the penalties established by this development code. Nothing in this
chapter shall prevent the town from taking lawful action as is necessary to
prevent or remedy any violation.
   A.   Abrogation And Greater Restrictions: The provisions of this section are
not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants,
or deed restrictions. However, where this section and another section,
easement, covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlap, the more stringent
regulations or standards shall govern.
   B.   Interpretation: In the interpretation and application of this section
all provisions shall be considered as minimum requirements, liberally construed
in favor of the governing body and, deemed neither to limit nor repeal any
other powers granted under state statutes.
   C.   Implementation: The requirements of this section shall be integrated
into the processing and review of all land use applications and development
permits where specific flood hazard review and flood protection recommendations
are necessary. (Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
9.18.040: REVIEW AREA PROCEDURES AND STANDARDS:
The floodplain safety overlay (FP) shall be subdivided into three (3) review
areas as follows. Proposed development shall comply with the following
standards of the applicable review area:
   A.   Floodplain review area 1 (FP1): FP1 includes areas subject to a base
flood (also called 100-year flood) as defined by the federal flood insurance
regulations. The following FEMA designated flood hazard zones are included in
FP1: A and AE. The following standards shall apply to property within the FP1
area:
      1.   Elevation Of Lowest Floor: New construction and substantial
improvement of any structure shall be constructed so that the first floor
(including basement) shall be one foot (1') or more above the base flood
elevation, when the FEMA map base flood elevations are shown, and will not
result in any significant increase in flood levels during the base flood
discharge. When the base flood elevations are not shown, new construction and
substantial improvement of any residential structure shall be constructed so
that the first floor (including basement) shall be two feet (2') or more above
the highest adjacent grade.
      2.   Review Procedures: A project proposed in this area shall be subject
to a flood hazard development review. This review shall ensure that the
proposed project complies with this development code regarding flood protection
measures and will require the submittal of an elevation certificate completed
by a land surveyor, engineer, or architect who is authorized by state or local
law to certify elevation information.
      3.   Development Restriction: In areas where no regulatory floodway has
been designated, no new construction, substantial improvement or other
development (including fill) shall be permitted within any areas designated by
FEMA as A or AE on the FIRM or flood boundary maps, unless it is demonstrated
that the cumulative effect of the proposed development when combined with all
other existing and anticipated development will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood more than one foot (1') at any point within the
community.
   B.   Floodplain review area 2 (FP2): FP2 includes areas between limits of
the base flood (100-year flood) and subject to a 500-year flood; and certain
areas subject to 100-year flooding with an average depth of less than one foot
(1') or where the contributing drainage areas are less than one square mile; or
areas protected by levees from the base flood. The following FEMA designated
flood hazard zones are included in FP2: shaded zone X. The following standards
shall apply to property within the FP2 area:
      1.   Elevation Of First Floor: New construction and substantial
improvement of any structure is recommended to be constructed so the first
floor (including basement) shall be one foot (1') above the highest adjacent
grade.
      2.   Review Procedures: A project proposed in this area may be subject to
a flood hazard development review based upon the determination by the drainage
section of land development of the town. This review shall ensure that the
proposed project complies with this development code regarding flood protection
measures and will require the submittal of an elevation certificate completed
by a land surveyor, engineer, or architect who is authorized by state or local
law to certify elevation information.
   C.   Floodplain review area 3 (FP3): FP3 includes areas of shallow flooding
with undetermined (D) as defined on the FIRM map, but possible, flood hazards
as determined by the town. The following standards shall apply to property
within the FP3 area:
      1.   Field Investigation Required: Before a building permit can be issued
on any affected lot, a field investigation shall be made of the lot to
determine if the proposed construction will have any substantial detrimental
effect on the drainageway. An applicant for the building permit on an affected
lot shall first apply for the required field investigation and shall pay the
appropriate fee. The following shall be included in the application for field
investigation:
         a.   A plot plan showing the proposed structures and grading by size,
location and orientation.
      2.   Final Building Plan Content: The final building plans that are
submitted for approval shall show the approved location and mitigating
measures. (Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
9.18.050: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Standards Of Construction: The following provisions shall apply in all
areas of special flood hazards:
      1.   Anchoring: All new construction and substantial improvements shall
be anchored to the foundation to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy. If a structure is elevated on fill as
specified in subsections A2e and A3a of this section, the anchoring requirement
shall be satisfied. Other alternative anchoring techniques that are effective
may be considered.
      2.   Construction Materials And Methods:
         a.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
This would include, but not be limited to, water resistant lumber, floor
coverings, adhesives, paints, masonry construction and finishes, waterproof
electrical systems, and mechanical footings, or other acceptable materials
measures. (See FEMA technical bulletin TB 2-93.)
         b.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed using methods and practices that minimize flood damage. This would
include, but not be limited to, elevating the structure, parallel alignment of
structure with water flow, increase the structural designs to withstand
hydrologic and hydrolographic sources, and increase depth of footings.
         c.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding.
         d.   Adequate drainage paths are provided around structures on slopes
to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed structures.
         e.   If fill is placed to elevate pads one foot (1') above base
elevation, it must be demonstrated that fill will not settle and is protected
from erosion, scour, or differential settlement, as follows:
            (1)   Fill shall be compacted to ninety five percent (95%) per ASTM
(American Society For Testing And Materials) standard D-698.
            (2)   Fill slopes of granular material shall be no steeper than
one-half foot (1/2') horizontal to one foot (1') vertical ratio unless
substantiating data for steeper slopes is provided, and the slopes are approved
by the town.
            (3)   If flow velocities are greater than five feet (5') per
second, fill slopes shall be armored with stone or rock slope protection.
      3.   Elevation And Floodproofing:
         a.   New construction and substantial improvement of any residential
structure shall include having the lowest floor (including basement), elevated
to one foot (1') above base flood elevation or two feet (2') or more above the
highest adjacent grade in the FP1 area, and it is recommended in the FP2 area
to be one foot (1') above ground level. Upon completion of the structure, the
elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) shall be certified by a
registered professional engineer or licensed land surveyor, and verified by the
building official to be properly elevated above the floodplain elevation at the
time of certification. The certification or verification shall be provided to
the floodplain administrator. In instances when the base flood elevation data
has not been provided on the flood insurance rate map (FIRM), the provisions of
this development code shall apply.
         b.   Nonresidential construction shall be either elevated in
compliance with subsection A3a of this section or together with attendant
utility and sanitary facilities and shall:
            (1)   Be floodproofed so that below the base flood level the
structure is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water;
            (2)   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic
and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy; and
            (3)   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect that the standards of this subsection are satisfied. Such
certifications shall be provided to the floodplain management administrator.
         c.   All new construction and substantial improvements to existing
structures, shall include fully enclosed structural areas below the lowest
floor that are subject to flooding, and the areas shall be designed to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing
for the entry and exit of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement
shall either:
            (1)   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or an
architect; or
            (2)   Provide a minimum of two (2) openings having a total net area
of not less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject
to flooding. The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot (1')
above grade. Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters; or
            (3)   Be verified by the floodplain administrator as complying with
floodproofing standards approved by the federal insurance administration.
   B.   Utility Standards:
      1.   All new and replacement water supply and sanitary sewage systems
shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the
system and discharge from systems into floodwaters.
      2.   On site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to them or contamination from them during flooding.
      3.   All public utilities and facilities such as electrical, telephone,
cable TV, gas, etc., shall utilize floodproofing measures in their location and
construction to minimize flood damage.
   C.   Zoning Application Review Requirements:
      1.   All preliminary proposals shall identify the special flood hazard
area and the elevation of the base flood.
      2.   All final plans shall provide the elevation of proposed structures
and pads above the floodplain elevation as derived from the FEMA map adopted at
the time of certification. If the site is filled above the base flood, the
final pad elevation shall be certified by a registered professional engineer or
licensed land surveyor and shall be submitted to the floodplain management
administrator. The entire site need not be elevated; only the building pads
need be elevated and other means of conducting storm flows through the site
shall be provided.
      3.   All proposals shall be consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage.
      4.   All proposals shall have public utilities and facilities such as
sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize
flood damage.
      5.   All proposals shall provide adequate drainage to reduce exposure to
flood hazards and not deflect flood flows onto other properties.
   D.   Manufactured Homes: All new and replacement manufactured homes and
additions to manufactured homes shall comply with all applicable provisions of
this section.
      1.   Nonresidential construction shall be elevated in compliance with
subsection A3 of this section.
      2.   All manufactured homes shall be securely anchored to a permanent
foundation system to resist flotation, collapse or lateral movement. Methods of
anchoring shall include, but not be limited to, the use of over the top or
frame ties to ground anchors.
   E.   Floodway Standards: Floodways are extremely hazardous areas due to the
velocity of floodwaters that carry debris, potential projectiles, and erosion
potential, therefore, the following provisions apply:
      1.   Encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements, stockpiling, and other development are prohibited unless
certification by a registered professional engineer or architect is provided,
demonstrating that encroachments shall not result in any increase in flood
levels during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
      2.   If subsection E1 of this section is satisfied, all new construction
and substantial improvements shall comply with all other applicable flood
hazard reduction provisions of this section. (Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
9.18.060: EXCEPTIONS AND MODIFICATIONS:
   A.   Exceptions: The following structures and land uses are exempt from the
requirements and standards established by this chapter:
      1.   Existing legally constructed structures for human habitation within
the floodplain safety overlay shall be considered legal nonconforming uses and
subject to the privileges and regulations thereof.
      2.   Structures for human habitation for which there was a valid building
permit in effect at the time this section became effective.
      3.   The reconstruction, rehabilitation or restoration of structures
listed on the national register of historic places or a state inventory of
historic places.
      4.   Replacement of utilities, including septic systems, in compliance
with health and safety codes shall be exempt from the flood elevation
requirements of this development code and shall otherwise be subject to the
legal nonconforming use provisions of this development code.
   B.   Modifications: In the public interest, the director may, without notice
or public hearing, approve, conditionally approve, deny or refer to the
commission requests to modify the requirements of the floodplain safety (FP)
overlay.
      1.   Procedure: Written application (variance) for such modifications
shall be submitted to the planning division, upon the forms provided by the
town for this purpose.
      2.   Required Findings: A modification to the standards imposed by this
chapter shall be allowed subject to lawful conditions that will secure
substantial protection for the public health, safety and general welfare and
provided that all of the following be found and justified as being true:
         a.   The modification, if within any designated regulatory floodway,
will not result in any significant increase in flood levels during the base
flood discharge.
         b.   The modification is for new construction or substantial
improvement on lots contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing
structures constructed below the base flood level.
         c.   The granting of the modification will not result in increased
flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public
expense, create nuisances, cause fraud or victimization of the public or
conflict with existing laws or ordinances.
         d.   The modification is the minimum necessary, considering the flood
hazard, to afford relief and is consistent with the objectives of sound
floodplain management. (Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
9.18.070: BOUNDARY CHANGES:
An applicant may apply to FEMA for an adjustment to the designated base flood
elevation and/or other designations on the FIRM or flood boundary maps. Prior
to submitting such application to FEMA, all required documents required by FEMA
must be submitted to the town for review and acknowledgment. Depending on the
size, scope and specific design of a land use proposal within the town, an
applicant for such proposal may be required to submit an application to FEMA
for an adjustment to the base flood elevation. The town will determine if this
FEMA application is actually required. (Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
CHAPTER 9.19
GEOLOGIC AND SEISMIC HAZARDS OVERLAY DISTRICT
SECTION:
9.19.010: Purpose
9.19.020: Location Requirements
9.19.030: Professional Reports
9.19.040: Development Standards
9.19.010: PURPOSE:
The geologic hazard (GH) overlay established by section
9.05.030, "Establishment Of Base Zoning And Overlay Districts", and
chapter 9.15, "Overlay Districts", of this article 2, is created to provide
greater public safety by establishing investigation requirements for areas that
are subject to potential geologic problems, including active faulting,
landsliding, debris flow/mudflow, rockfall, liquefaction, and adverse soil
conditions. (Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
9.19.020: LOCATION REQUIREMENTS:
The GH overlay shall be designated:
   A.   In areas that are adjacent to active earthquake fault traces as
depicted on the Alquist-Priolo earthquake fault zone maps;
   B.   In areas that are adjacent to potentially active earthquake fault
traces as designated by the county geologist;
   C.   In areas where landslides, debris flows/mudflows, rockfall or other
slope instabilities occur;
   D.   In areas where liquefaction of the soil is associated with earthquake
activity; and
   E.   In areas of adverse soil conditions, such as those underlain by
hydrocollapsible, expansive, or corrosive soils. (Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
9.19.030: PROFESSIONAL REPORTS:
Except as provided for areas of adverse soil conditions, a detailed geologic
study prepared by a California registered professional geologist shall be
submitted with all land use applications and development permits proposed
within the GH overlay, that would lead to the construction of roads or
structures or the subdivision of land.
   A.   Report Contents:
      1.   Areas Of Faulting: In areas of the GH overlay where faulting is a
concern, the geologic report shall confirm the presence or absence of active
faults and, if applicable, shall establish appropriate construction setbacks
from active faulting.
      2.   Areas Of Slope Stability: In areas of the GH overlay where slope
stability is a concern, the geologic report shall evaluate landslides and other
slope instabilities that could affect the project and, if applicable, shall
include recommendations for mitigation.
      3.   Areas Of Liquefaction Susceptibility: In areas of the GH overlay
where liquefaction is a concern, the geologic report shall evaluate the
potential for liquefaction based upon anticipated ground shaking, historic
groundwater levels and character of the alluvial materials. If the
investigation determines that a potential for liquefaction exists, a
geotechnical investigation may be required.
      4.   Areas Of Adverse Soil Conditions: In areas of the GH overlay where
adverse soil conditions are known to exist, a geotechnical investigation report
shall be prepared by a California registered professional engineer. The
investigation shall sample and conduct laboratory analysis of subsurface soils
and, if applicable, shall include recommendations for mitigation.
   B.   Exemptions From Report Requirements: Exemptions to the requirement for
a geologic study include:
      1.   A single-family residential wood or steel frame dwelling not
exceeding two (2) stories in height provided the proposed structure is not
located within the boundaries of a mapped landslide or within that portion of
the GH overlay designated as having adverse soil conditions;
      2.   Single-family residential wood frame or steel dwellings located
within a subdivision of land for which a geologic report was prepared and
approved;
      3.   A nonhabitable structure that is accessory to a residential use that
is not physically connected to the principal structure; and
      4.   Alterations or additions to any structure where the value or area
does not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the structure. (Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
9.19.040: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
Development and land uses proposed within the GH overlay shall comply with the
following standards:
   A.   A structure used for human occupancy shall be located fifty feet (50')
or farther from any active earthquake fault traces. Lesser setbacks may be
applicable in certain situations as determined by an appropriate geologic
investigation and approved by the county geologist or other engineering
geologist designated by the town.
   B.   A structure used for critical facilities shall be located one hundred
fifty feet (150') or farther from any active earthquake fault trace as
indicated by general plan. Critical facilities shall include dams, reservoirs,
fuel storage facilities, power plants, nuclear reactors, police and fire
stations, schools, hospitals, rest homes, nursing homes and emergency
communication facilities.
   C.   Utility lines and streets shall not be placed within the construction
setback area of a hazardous fault except for crossing which can be made
perpendicular to the fault trace or as recommended by the project geologist and
approved by the county geologist or individual designated by the building
official.
   D.   The use of development restricted areas as recreation and common open
spaces is encouraged. (Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
CHAPTER 9.20
HILLSIDE OVERLAY DISTRICT
SECTION:
9.20.010: Purpose And Intent
9.20.020: Applicability
9.20.030: Hillside Grading Review
9.20.040: Hillside Grading Standards
9.20.010: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
This chapter establishes regulations for development within hillside areas to:
   A.   Facilitate appropriate hillside development through standards and
guidelines for hillside areas.
   B.   Ensure that development in the hillside areas is designed to fit the
existing landform.
   C.   Preserve significant features of the natural topography, including
swales, canyons, streams, knolls, ridgelines, and rock outcrops.
   D.   Provide a safe means of ingress, egress, and traffic flow for all forms
of permissible traffic within hillside areas.
   E.   Provide alternative approaches to conventional grading practices by
achieving development intensities that are consistent with the natural
characteristics of hillside areas (e.g., landform, scenic quality, slopes, and
vegetation).
   F.   Encourage the planning, design, and development of sites that provide
maximum safety with respect to fire hazards, exposure to geological hazards,
drainage, erosion and siltation, and materials of construction; provide the
best use of natural terrain; and to discourage development that will create or
disproportionately increase fire, flood, slide, or other safety hazards to
public health, welfare, and safety. (Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
9.20.020: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Slope Gradient Of Fifteen Percent Or Greater: The standards contained
in this chapter apply to all uses and structures within areas having a natural
slope gradient of fifteen percent (15%) or greater over the area being graded
and requiring a grading permit. For the purpose of this chapter, slope shall be
computed as set forth in section
 9.20.040 of this chapter for the area being graded before grading is
commenced.
   B.   Site Conditions Requiring Hillside Grading Review: If the slope
gradient is fifteen percent (15%) or greater and if any one of the following
thresholds applies on a particular site meeting the criteria set forth in
subsection A of this section, a full analysis and compliance with this chapter
shall be required and a hillside grading review shall be conducted in
compliance with section
9.20.030, "Hillside Grading Review", of this chapter:
      1.   The volume of proposed grading is more than five hundred (500) cubic
yards per lot or more than a total of two thousand (2,000) cubic yards for the
total project.
      2.   If retaining walls or the proposed cut or fill slopes greater than
fifteen feet (15') in height will be visible and exposed to permanent public
view or will be adjacent to designated open space or public lands.
      3.   The width of proposed cut or fill slopes is greater than one hundred
fifty feet (150') as measured at the widest point of the slope.
      4.   The area of proposed disturbance is more than fifty percent (50%) of
the site area, or the proposed disturbed area exceeds ten thousand (10,000)
square feet, whichever is less. (Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
9.20.030: HILLSIDE GRADING REVIEW:
A subdivision, land use permit, or building permit application for a site or
development that meets or exceeds the thresholds in section
9.20.020, "Applicability", of this chapter, shall require a hillside grading
review.
   A.   Procedure: The review shall be conducted concurrently with any required
discretionary review or in conjunction with an application for a grading permit
for any project that meets or exceeds the thresholds listed in section
9.20.020, "Applicability", of this chapter.
   B.   Submittal Requirements: An application for a hillside grading review
shall require the following documents, reports, maps and such others as
determined appropriate by the director. Exceptions to the filing requirements
shall require a written justification supported by factual information
submitted to the director for consideration. Some of the required submittals
listed below may be displayed on a single map or plan:
      1.   Natural Features Map: A natural features map shall identify all
existing slope banks, ridgelines, canyons, natural drainage courses, federally
recognized blue line streams, rock outcroppings, and existing vegetation. When
a geology report is required, landslides and other existing geologic hazards
shall also be depicted.
      2.   Grading Plan: A preliminary grading plan shall include the following
items:
         a.   A legend with appropriate symbols shall include the following
items: change in direction of drainage, elevation of regulated trees subject to
the provisions of section
9.07.130, "Native Landscape Documentation Package", of this article 2,
estimated volumes proposed to be cut and/or filled, finished floor elevations,
high point, low point, pad elevations, spot elevations, top of curb, and top of
wall.
         b.   A separate map, with proposed fill areas and cut areas
differentiated, with areas where cut and/or fill exceed depths established in
compliance with this chapter. If custom foundations are proposed, this shall be
noted on the map. Additionally, the area of cut and/or fill, calculated as a
percentage of the total surface area of the site, shall be included on the
plan; and
         c.   Contours for existing and natural land conditions and proposed
work. Existing contours shall be depicted with a dashed line with every fifth
contour line darker; and proposed contours shall be depicted similarly with
solid lines. Contours shall be shown at maximum five foot (5') intervals above
twenty percent (20%) slope.
      3.   Drainage Map: A conceptual drainage and flood control facilities map
describing planned drainage improvements.
      4.   Slope Analysis Map: A slope analysis map for the purpose of
determining the amount and location of land as it exists in its natural state
falling into each slope category as specified in this subsection B4. This map
shall be prepared and signed by a registered civil engineer or licensed land
surveyor, and shall have a scale of not less than one inch to one hundred feet
(1" = 100') and a contour interval of not more than two feet (2'), provided
that the contour interval may be five feet (5') when the slope is more than
twenty percent (20%). A scale of not less than one inch to two hundred feet (1"
= 200') may be used for developments greater than one hundred (100) acres in
size. This map shall show the closest structures on all contiguous properties.
It shall delineate slope bands in the range of zero to less than fifteen
percent (0 - <15%), fifteen (15) to less than thirty percent (<30%), thirty
percent (30%) to less than forty percent (<40%), and forty percent (40%) or
greater. Also included shall be a tabulation of the land/area in each slope
category specified in acres.
      5.   Slope Profiles: A sufficient number of slope profiles shall be
provided as required by the director to clearly illustrate the extent of the
proposed grading. The slope profiles shall:
         a.   Be drawn at the same scale and indexed, or keyed, to the grading
plan, and project site map.
         b.   Show existing and proposed topography, structures, and
infrastructure. Proposed topography, structures, and infrastructure shall be
drawn with a solid, heavy line. Existing topography and features shall be drawn
with a thin or dashed line.
         c.   The slope profile shall extend far enough from the project site
boundary to clearly show impact on adjacent property, within at least one
hundred fifty feet (150').
         d.   The profiles shall be drawn along those locations of the project
site where:
            (1)   The greatest alteration of existing topography is proposed;
            (2)   The most intense or dense development is proposed;
            (3)   The site that is most visible from surrounding land uses; and
            (4)   At all site boundaries illustrating maximum and minimum
conditions.
         e.   At least two (2) of the slope profiles shall be roughly parallel
to each other and roughly perpendicular to existing contour lines. At least one
other slope profile shall be roughly at a forty five degree (45°) angle to the
other slope profiles and existing contour lines. (Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
9.20.040: HILLSIDE GRADING STANDARDS:
   A.   Landform Grading And Revegetation Standards: Incorporation of the basic
principles of the landform grading and revegetation concept in the design and
construction of hillside development projects shall be required so that they
will be in harmony with the natural topography and reflect existing plant
distribution patterns. The general principles of landform grading and
revegetation include the following elements:
      1.   Flow With Natural Topography: The basic land plan flows with the
natural topography rather than against it. This means that street patterns and
building pad configurations follow the underlying topographic features rather
than cutting across them.
      2.   Manufactured Sites:
         a.   All manufactured cut and fill slopes exceeding fifteen feet (15')
in height, which will be either exposed to permanent public view or are
adjacent to environmentally sensitive areas, shall be designed with features
characteristic of natural slopes so that their ultimate appearance will
resemble a natural slope. This shall include slopes along streets and highways,
slopes adjacent to parks, schools, open spaces, and other public facilities,
and other prominent and highly visible slopes.
         b.   Side setback slopes and rear setback slopes, less than twenty
five feet (25') in height, need not have landform design applied.
         c.   Slope drainage devices (i.e., down drains and interceptor drains)
shall be designed so that they are built into the natural slope features and
become hidden from view.
      3.   Terracing Discouraged: When not otherwise required, terracing and
the associated concrete drainage devices (i.e., terrace drains, down drains,
and interceptor drains) distract from efforts to give cut and fill slopes a
natural appearance and are therefore discouraged.
      4.   Landscaping: Landscaping shall be applied in patterns resembling
native plant distribution.
   B.   Slope Analysis:
      1.   Calculating Average Slope: Use one of the following formulas or an
acceptable alternative approved by the director that would accurately portray
the steepness of areas throughout the site that are proposed for development
and preservation in open space to calculate the weighted average natural slope
by slope category for the entire project site and the weighted average for the
area to be graded:
      Example #1:
         Weighted average slope = 0.002296 IL/A
         I = Contour interval in feet
         L = Summation of length of all contours in feet
         A = Area in acres of parcel being considered
      Example #2:
         Weighted average slope = 100 IL/a
         I = Contour interval in feet
         L = Summation of length of all contours in feet
         a = Area in square feet of parcel being considered
         (minimum area to be considered shall be 10,000 square feet)
      2.   Slope Categories: Table 2-25, "Slope Categories", of this section
provides standards for hillside slopes in areas that will not be landform
graded. These standards ensure that development will complement the existing
character and topography of the land. The standards for one category may be
applied to limited portions of the site in an adjacent category when a project
is developed on a site with more than one slope category. The maximum allowable
density for residential projects shall be determined by the formulas contained
in this article 2 or in subsection
9.17.050C of this article 2 if the project is located within a fire safety
overlay.
      TABLE 2-25
      SLOPE CATEGORIES
 
Slope    Weighted Average       Site Standards
Category Natural Slope Gradient
                                Structures shall conform to the natural
                                topography and natural grade by using
                                appropriate techniques, including stepped or
                                split level foundations, stem walls, stacking,
1        15% to less than 30%   and clustering. Walls shall be as natural
                                appearing as possible. Conventional grading may
                                be considered for limited portions of a project
                                when its plan includes special design features,
                                extensive open space, or significant use of
                                greenbelts.
                                Development within this category shall be
                                restricted to those sites where it can be
                                demonstrated that safety will be maximized
                                while environmental and aesthetic impacts will
2        30% to less than 40%   be minimized. Use of large parcels, variable
                                setbacks, and variable building structural
                                techniques (e.g., stepped foundations) shall be
                                expected. Extra erosion control measures may be
                                included as conditions of approval.
                                This is an excessive slope condition. Pad
                                grading shall not be allowed. Grading for
3        40% and greater        driveways and roads shall be reviewed through
                                the grading plan and grading permit application
                                process.
 
   C.   Grading:
      1.   Grading Standards:
         a.   Cut and fill slopes shall not be created greater than fifty
percent (50%) (2:1).
         b.   Where cut or fill conditions are created, slopes shall be varied
rather than left at a constant angle that may be unstable or create an
unnatural, rigid, "engineered" appearance.
         c.   The toe and crest of any slope in excess of ten feet (10') in
vertical height shall be rounded with vertical curves of radii no less than
five feet (5') and designed in proportion to the total height of the slope.
         d.   A manufactured slope bank shall not exceed thirty feet (30') in
vertical height unless no feasible alternative exists or unless grading can be
significantly reduced by increasing slope height. However, the use of an
alternative design is strongly recommended as the desirable approach in
reducing grading and slope height. Any bank exceeding twenty five feet (25') in
height, regardless of length, shall have variable gradients.
         e.   Grading shall be phased so that prompt revegetation or
construction will control erosion. Where feasible, only those areas that will
be built on, resurfaced, or landscaped shall be disturbed. Topsoil shall be
stockpiled during rough grading and used on cut and fill slopes whenever
feasible. Revegetation of cut and fill slopes shall occur within three (3)
months of grading completion.
         f.   The grading operations shall install adequate erosion control
measures, as required and approved by the town engineer.
         g.   Retaining walls associated with lot pads shall not exceed four
feet (4') in height, where they will be visible to the public. Where an
additional retained portion is necessary due to unusual or extreme conditions
(i.e., parcel configuration, steep slope, or road design), the use of terraced
retaining structures shall be considered on an individual parcel basis and
shall only be allowed where landscaping is provided between the walls to soften
the overall appearance. Terraced walls shall be separated by a minimum of three
feet (3') with appropriate landscaping. No more than three (3) terraced or
stepped walls shall be permitted without obtaining a variance for more.
Terraced retaining walls shall not be used as a typical solution within a
development and shall be limited to the minimum required subject to approval of
the director.
         h.   Parcel lines shall be placed two feet (2') beyond top of major
slope areas within public view corridors to help ensure their maintenance by
the downhill owner.
         i.   Where feasible, graded areas shall be designed with manufactured
slopes located on the uphill side of structures, thereby hiding the slope
behind the structure.
         j.   On parcels sloping with the street and other configurations not
addressed above in this subsection C1, one retaining wall, not to exceed forty
two inches (42") in height, may be used in a side setback where necessary.
      2.   Drainage Standards:
         a.   Debris basins, riprap, and energy dissipating devices shall be
provided where necessary to reduce erosion when grading is undertaken. Except
for necessary flood control facilities and road and utility crossings,
significant natural drainage courses shall be protected from grading activity.
In instances where crossing is required, a natural crossing and bank protection
shall be preferred over steel and concrete systems, where such crossing is
feasible. Where brow ditches are required, they shall be naturalized with plant
materials and native rocks.
         b.   Terrace drains shall follow landform slope configuration. Down
drains shall not be placed in exposed positions. Down drains shall be hidden in
swales diagonally or curvilinearly across a slope face. In this manner they
shall be built into the overall landform of the slope.
         c.   Building permits and grading permits shall not be issued for
construction on any site without an approved location for disposal of runoff
waters (i.e., a drainage channel, public street or alley, or private drainage
easement).
         d.   The use of cross lot drainage shall be subject to the director's
review and may be approved after demonstration that this method will not
adversely affect the proposed parcels or adjacent properties, and that it is
absolutely required in order to minimize the amount of grading that would
result with conventional drainage practices. Where cross lot drainage is
utilized, the following shall apply:
            (1)   One parcel may drain across another parcel if an easement is
provided either within an improved, open V-swale gutter that has a naturalized
appearance or within a closed drainage pipe that should be a minimum twelve
inches (12") in diameter. This drainage shall be conveyed to either a public
street or to a drainage easement. The easement width shall be determined on an
individual basis and shall be dependent on appropriate hydrologic studies and
access requirements.
            (2)   On site drainage shall be conveyed in an improved, open V-
swale gutter that has a naturalized appearance, or within an underground pipe
as determined on an individual basis and shall be dependent on appropriate
hydrologic studies and access requirements.
         e.   Slope drainage on graded slopes should be regulated per the
California building code.
         f.   Natural drainage courses shall be preserved and enhanced to the
extent feasible. Rather than filling them in, drainage features shall be
incorporated as an integral part of the project design.
      3.   Access, Trails, And Roadway Standards:
         a.   Driveway grades up to a maximum of twenty percent (20%) shall be
allowed and shall be aligned with the natural contours of the land. Proper
design considerations shall be employed (i.e., vertical curbs and parking
landings). Parking landings shall be utilized on all driveways over ten percent
(10%) in grade.
         b.   Where retaining walls are necessary adjacent to roadways or
within street setbacks, they shall be limited to four feet (4') in height where
they will be visible from the street in order to avoid obstruction of
motorists' and pedestrians' field of view and to create an aesthetically
pleasing streetscape. No more than four (4) terraced or stepped retaining walls
shall be utilized. Walls shall be separated by a minimum of three feet (3') and
include appropriate landscaping.
         c.   Roadways and driveways shall conform to the natural landform,
where feasible. They shall not greatly alter the physical and visual character
of a hillside by creating large notches in ridgelines, defining wide straight
alignments, or by building switchbacks on visually prominent hillsides. Split
sections and parking bays shall be utilized in the layout of hillside streets.
         d.   Where road construction is allowed in hillside areas, the extent
of vegetation disturbance and visual disruption shall be minimized by the
combined use of retaining structures and regrading to approximate the natural
slope. The following techniques shall be used where feasible:
            (1)   Utilize landform revegetation planting in order to create a
natural appearance and provide a sense of privacy.
            (2)   Reduce the visual and safety impacts by use of terraced
retaining walls and landscaping.
            (3)   Split roadways increase the amount and appearance of
landscaping and the median can be used to handle drainage.
      4.   Site Design:
         a.   The dimensions of a structure parallel to the direction of the
slope shall be maximized in order to limit the amount of cutting and filling
and to better fit the structure to the natural terrain.
         b.   Design of building sites shall be sensitive to the natural
terrain. Structures shall be located in ways that minimize grading and preserve
natural features (i.e., knolls or ridgelines).
         c.   Projects shall incorporate variable setbacks, multiple
orientations, and other site planning techniques to preserve open spaces,
protect natural features, and offer views for residents.
      5.   Landscaping Standards: In addition to the requirements in
chapter 9.32 of this title (landscaping standards) the following standards
shall apply to hillside development subject to the requirements of this
chapter:
         a.   Native or naturalized plants or other plant species that blend
with the landscape shall be utilized in all areas with required planting.
         b.   Fire retardant plant materials shall be utilized.
         c.   A permanent landscape and irrigation system, for purposes of
establishing and maintaining required planting, shall be installed on all
slopes. The emphasis shall be toward using plant materials that will eventually
need minimal irrigation. Water and energy conservation techniques shall be
utilized, including drip irrigation, reclaimed water, and xeriscape. If a
natural landscape palette is selected, permanent irrigation need not be
provided if it is demonstrated to the satisfaction of the director that
permanent irrigation is unnecessary. Drip irrigation need not be provided for
landscape palettes where such a system would not be water efficient. Reclaimed
water need be used only in situations where it is available at the site.
         d.   Landscaping shall be used to screen views of downslope building
elevations. When the structure height exceeds twenty feet (20') from finished
grade on a downslope, additional landscaping shall be required and a
landscaping plan shall be submitted for review with the submittal package.
         e.   Slopes with required planting shall be planted with informal
clusters of trees and shrubs to soften and vary the slope plane. Where required
by the town, jute netting or similar material shall be used to help stabilize
planting and minimize soil erosion.
         f.   Native vegetation shall be retained and supplemented within
undeveloped canyons and along natural drainage courses as allowed by state and
federal resource agencies (e.g., state department of fish and game, U.S. fish
and wildlife, U.S. army corps of engineers, etc.).
         g.   Landscaping shall become a "revegetation" process and be applied
in patterns that occur in nature: Trees and shrubs shall be concentrated
largely in concave areas, while convex portions shall be planted mainly with
ground covers. (Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
CHAPTER 9.21
LARGE ANIMAL OVERLAY DISTRICT
SECTION:
9.21.010: Purpose
9.21.020: Location Requirement
9.21.030: Development Standards
9.21.010: PURPOSE:
The large animal (LA) overlay established by section
9.05.030, "Establishment Of Base Zoning And Overlay Districts", and
chapter 9.15, "Overlay Districts", of this article 2, is created to allow for
properties to have an increased number of animals and allows for reduced
setbacks for animal keeping activity. (Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
9.21.020: LOCATION REQUIREMENT:
The large animal overlay shall be designated: LA. (Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
9.21.030: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Table 2-26, "Allowed Number Of Large Animals Within Large Animal
Overlay District", of this section establishes the animal densities for those
single-family residential land use districts located within the large animal
overlay district.
   TABLE 2-26
   ALLOWED NUMBER OF LARGE ANIMALS
   WITHIN LARGE ANIMAL OVERLAY DISTRICT
                                                          Maximum Number
Animal Special Use Permit Minimum     Livestock Densities Of Nonexempt
       Required           Parcel Size                     Animals Without
                                                          Livestock Permit
                                                               Maximum Number
Animal         Special Use     Minimum        Livestock        Of Nonexempt
               Permit Required Parcel Size    Densities        Animals Without
                                                               Livestock Permit
                                              1 animal on the
Billy goat                                    first 20,000 sq.
(male breeding No              20,000 sq. ft. ft., 1 animal    3
goats)                                        for each
                                              additional
                                              10,000 sq. ft.
                                              4 animals per 5
                                              acres, with no
                                              additional
Boar           Yes             1 acre         animals allowed  4
                                              unless approved
                                              under livestock
                                              permit
                                              2 animals per 5
                                              acres, 1
Buffalo        Yes             5 acres        additional       2
                                              animal for each
                                              additional 5
                                              acres
                                              Maximum 4
Bull           Yes             5 acres        animals on       4
                                              minimum 5 acres
                                              4 animals on the
                                              first 20,000 sq.
Cattle         No              20,000 sq. ft. ft., 1 animal    23
                                              for each
                                              additional
                                              10,000 sq. ft.
                                              4 animals on the
                                              first 20,000 sq.
Emus and       No              1 acre         ft., 1 animal    23
ostriches                                     for each
                                              additional
                                              10,000 sq. ft.
                                              4 animals on the
                                              first 20,000 sq.
Equine         No              20,000 sq. ft. ft., 1 animal    23
                                              for each
                                              additional
                                              10,000 sq. ft.
                                              6 animals on the
                                              first 20,000 sq.
Goats          No              7,200 sq. ft.  ft., 1 animal    12
                                              for each
                                              additional
                                              10,000 sq. ft.
                                                               2 pair (male and
                                                               female) per acre
                                                               or 1 male and 3
                                                               females. Maximum
                                                               4 on first acre
Llamas and                                    1 acre minimum    
camelids       No              20,000 sq. ft. in RL and R-HR   2 additional for
                                              districts        every 10,000 sq.
                                                               ft. after first
                                                               acre. Maximum
                                                               28. Over 28
                                                               requires
                                                               livestock permit
                                              1 animal per
                                              acre, 1 animal
Pig            No              5 acres        for each         4
                                              additional
                                              10,000 sq. ft.
                                              6 animals on the
                                              first 20,000 sq.
Sheep          No              7,200 sq. ft.  ft., 1 animal    12
                                              for each
                                              additional
                                              10,000 sq. ft.
 
(Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
CHAPTER 9.22
SPECIFIC PLAN OVERLAY DISTRICT
SECTION:
9.22.010: Purpose
9.22.020: Applicability
9.22.030: Specific Plan Required
9.22.040: Existing Specific Plan Adopted
9.22.050: Adoption Of Regulations And Standards Through Specific Plans
9.22.010: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the specific plan (SP) overlay district is to provide for a
coordinated level of site planning for specific properties. The intent is to
ensure a more precise level of planning for such areas than is ordinarily
possible under the development code. Therefore, a specific plan is an extension
of the land use plan, including, but not limited to, the location and types of
land uses, roads, infrastructure, open space, and natural resources. (Ord. 253,
12-16-2014)
9.22.020: APPLICABILITY:
The provisions of this district shall apply to any parcel(s) subject to the
specific plan overlay district, as shown on the town's official zoning map.
(Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
9.22.030: SPECIFIC PLAN REQUIRED:
No new development will be approved within the specific plan areas designated
in the general plan until a specific plan meeting the requirements of section
65451 of the Government Code, has been adopted by the town. (Ord. 253, 12-16-
2014)
9.22.040: EXISTING SPECIFIC PLAN ADOPTED:
Where specific plans have already been adopted, new development must be
consistent and comply with that specific plan. (Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
9.22.050: ADOPTION OF REGULATIONS AND STANDARDS THROUGH SPECIFIC PLANS:
Regulations and standards may be adopted by resolution or ordinance as a part
of a specific plan. The regulations and standards for the specific plan are
utilized in lieu of adopted zoning regulations and standards (to be used
instead of existing zoning districts contained in the development code) and the
specific plan shall govern the use and development of any properties included
in an adopted specific plan without regard to any adopted zoning regulations
and standards (unless the specific plan contains specific provisions designed
to rely on the development code in certain situations not covered in the
specific plan). Under these circumstances the properties included in the
specific plan shall be indicated on the zoning map. (Ord. 253, 12-16-2014)
CHAPTER 9.30
DEDICATIONS AND INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
9.30.010: Purpose And Intent
9.30.020: Applicability
9.30.030: Dedication Of Street And/Or Highway Right Of Way And Infrastructure
Easements
9.30.040: Installation Of Street And Infrastructure Improvements
9.30.050: Delayed Improvements; Bonding
9.30.060: Waiver Of Requirements; Procedures
9.30.070: Department Determination
9.30.080: Utility Undergrounding
9.30.010: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
This chapter regulates and controls dedications and the installation of
infrastructure improvements. The regulations are intended to preserve the
public health, safety, and general welfare; to promote orderly growth and
development; and to ensure the provision of adequate traffic and pedestrian
circulation, utilities, flood control, trails, bike lanes and related
infrastructure improvements and services. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.30.020: APPLICABILITY:
The requirements of this chapter shall apply to all subdivisions and single
parcel commercial and industrial development. Single- family residential infill
development is subject to dedication of necessary easements only. (Ord. 254,
12-16-2014)
9.30.030: DEDICATION OF STREET AND/OR HIGHWAY RIGHT OF WAY AND INFRASTRUCTURE
EASEMENTS:
   A.   Dedications Required To Comply With Approved Plans Or Ordinances: Prior
to final inspection of structures, at the discretion of the director, the
dedication of a road, street or highway right of way including roadway, trail
or bike lane right of way, flood control or drainage, public utilities or
easement for other infrastructure may be required to comply with the general
plan, an adopted specific plan, master infrastructure plan, or the provisions
of any specific ordinance that has established a future right of way line.
   B.   Dedications Required In Absence Of Approved Plans Or Ordinances: Where
approved plans or ordinances do not exist, the required dedications may be
required for specific plans and planned development projects and shall be as
follows:
      1.   Proposed development adjacent to trail and bike lane systems may be
required to dedicate land for trail and bike access points, as determined by
the director.
      2.   The dedication or offers of dedication of trail and bike lane
easements where appropriate may be required for establishing a planned trails
system alignment or where an established trail is jeopardized by impending
development. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.30.040: INSTALLATION OF STREET AND INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Installation Of Street And Infrastructure Improvements: Prior to final
inspection of any building, structure or improvement resulting in an increase
or change of vehicular traffic, increases in runoff, or increases in demand on
infrastructure systems such that the construction of street or infrastructure
improvements are necessary for the purposes of protecting public safety and
health, the installation of street improvements and infrastructure shall be
required in accordance with the following and other current adopted standards,
subject to the review of the director. "Street improvements" include any or all
curb and gutter, sidewalks, streetlights, concrete driveway approaches,
drainage structures, paving, backfilling and preparation of the road surface to
rough grade for the placement of paving and other necessary improvements as
determined by the director.
      1.   Proof Of Access: Proof of legal and physical access is required.
         a.   Physical access is a route which is traversable in a standard (2-
wheel drive) sedan. Proof of physical access shall be determined by the
director.
         b.   Legal access is:
            (1)   A dedicated right of way;
            (2)   A dedication to the town of Yucca Valley and to the public in
general, an easement for public road, highway and public utility purposes of a
width as established by the circulation element of the general plan. The
easement or road constructed on the dedicated land shall not become a town
roadway until and unless the council, by appropriate resolution, has caused the
road to be accepted into the town maintained road system.
            (3)   An existing traveled way that is substantially in compliance
with town road standards, where a prescriptive right by the user has been
established for the public use by court decree.
            (4)   Private road easement.
         c.   When all feasible efforts to establish legal access in accordance
with subsection A1b of this section have been exhausted, the lot is an existing
legally created parcel, and the property owner has physical access, the
director may waive the requirement for legal access on the condition that the
property owner enters into an agreement in the form required by the town which
includes the property owner's: 1) representation that the owner has a right to
physical access; 2) acknowledgment that proof of legal access has not been
provided to the town's satisfaction; and 3) agreement to disclose to any
subsequent owners that legal access has not been established to the
satisfaction of the town. Notation of said agreement and conditions of waiver
shall also be included on the building permit.
      2.   Water:
         a.   Water Purveyor: Required when in the service area of a water
purveyor and the purveyor can supply the water.
         b.   Substantiated Well Water: If the subject parcel is not within the
service area of a water purveyor, well water may be allowed if all required
setbacks are met.
      3.   Sanitation:
         a.   Sewer: Project shall connect as required by the ordinances and
policies of the Hi-Desert water district.
         b.   Septic systems: Allowed in compliance with the local regional
water quality control board regulations.
      4.   Fire Flow: Adequate fire flow and fire safety measures in compliance
with the most current regulations adopted by San Bernardino County fire
department.
      5.   Street And Infrastructure Improvements: Street and infrastructure
improvements shall be required for all residential and nonresidential
subdivisions (parcel maps and tract maps) and commercial and industrial
projects in accordance with table 3-1 of this section.
   TABLE 3-1
   STREET AND INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENTS
             Residential3                  Nonresidential
Standards Less Than 1.0 Acres Or Larger
          1.0 Acres (Or Within Large          All Lot Sizes
                    Animal Overlay District)1
                            Residential3                     Nonresidential
Standards                Less Than    1.0 Acres Or Larger
                         1.0 Acres    (Or Within Large          All Lot Sizes
                                      Animal Overlay District)1
Paved access to nearest        YNo1                       Yes
paved road
Paved general plan roads
shown on the circulation       YYes                       Yes
plan within or abutting
the subdivision
Paved internal roadways,
other than general plan        YNo1                       Yes
roads
Curbs and gutters              YNo, except general plan   Yes
                                      roads
Sidewalks                      YNo, except general plan         Yes2
                                      roads
Streetlights                   YNo, except general plan   Yes
                                      roads
 
   Notes:
      1.    Residential parcel maps (4 lots or less) with resultant parcels
greater than 1 acre and more than 500 feet from the nearest paved road may be
exempted from this requirement.
      2.    Sidewalks are required both sides of the road, except sidewalks are
only required on 1 side of the roadway for local residential and industrial
roads, not including roads shown on the general plan circulation plan, where
the resultant parcels after subdivision are 1 acre or larger.
      3.    Lot sizes are the size of the resultant parcels after the
subdivision.
(Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.30.050: DELAYED IMPROVEMENTS; BONDING:
Such dedications and installation of street and infrastructure improvements
shall be required prior to the occupancy of the premises or commencement of the
above referenced uses. Where it is impractical to install the required
improvements at the time of the proposed development, an agreement in writing
shall be entered into with the town to make such improvements, and a cash
deposit, a surety bond or such other form of surety as may be acceptable to the
town in an amount equal to the estimated cost of the improvements as determined
by the director, shall be posted with the town in lieu thereof, to guarantee
the installation of such improvements. In the latter event, the actual
installation of street improvements may be delayed until written demand
therefor is made by the town. If surety bonds are submitted, they shall be
furnished by a surety company authorized to write such bonds in the state of
California. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.30.060: WAIVER OF REQUIREMENTS; PROCEDURES:
   A.   Requirements for all improvements in the public right of way will be
specified by the town. Request for a waiver of any of these requirements may be
made to the commission who shall have the authority to approve modifications or
reject any of the requirements.
      1.   Required Findings: Prior to waiving or modifying any improvement
requirement, the commission shall find as follows:
         a.   That the waiver or modification of the required improvement would
not adversely affect the public health and safety.
         b.   That neither the improvements being waived nor the modifications
authorized delete improvements which are a necessary prerequisite to the
orderly development of the surrounding area.
      2.   Written Agreement: Prior to waiving any improvement requirement, the
commission may require a written agreement from the applicant, agreeing to
participate in any street improvement program for the area in which the
property is located, whether privately or publicly initiated. This agreement
shall be recorded with the county recorder.
      3.   Appeal Of Action: Any decision by the commission pertaining to a
request to waive or modify required improvements may be appealed to the
council. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.30.070: DEPARTMENT DETERMINATION:
Prior to final inspection of any such building or structure, the department
shall determine the following:
   A.   That all of the required dedications have been provided.
   B.   That all of the required street improvements have either been installed
or that a cash deposit, surety bond or other form of acceptable surety in an
amount equal to the estimated cost of the street improvements has been posted
with the town to assure the installation of said street improvements. (Ord.
254, 12-16-2014)
9.30.080: UTILITY UNDERGROUNDING:
See title 8,
chapter 8.90, "Underground Utility Districts", of this code. (Ord. 254, 12-16-
2014)
CHAPTER 9.31
GENERAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
SECTION:
9.31.010: Purpose And Applicability
9.31.020: Clear Sight Triangle
9.31.030: Height Regulations And Exceptions
9.31.010: PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to ensure that all development
produces an environment of stable and desirable character that is harmonious
with existing and future development, and protects the use and enjoyment of
neighboring properties, consistent with the general plan.
   B.   Applicability: The standards of this chapter apply to all zones. These
standards shall be considered in combination with the standards for each zone
in article 2, "Zoning Districts And Development Standards", of this title.
Where there may be a conflict, the standards specific to the zone or specific
land use shall override these general standards. All structures, additions to
structures, and uses shall conform to the standards of this chapter, as
determined applicable by the director. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.31.020: CLEAR SIGHT TRIANGLE:
   A.   Visibility Required: To safeguard against vehicular, bicycle, and
pedestrian collisions caused by visual obstructions at street and alley
intersections, and at any point where a driveway intersects a street or alley,
there shall be no visual obstruction within the clear sight triangle
established in this section. Such space shall be kept free of buildings,
structures, and landscaping that constitutes a visual obstruction. In hillside
areas, clear sight triangle shall include such grading as may be necessary to
provide for reasonable intersection visibility.
   B.   Clear Sight Triangle Described: The clear sight triangle is defined as:
      1.   The triangular shaped area on a corner lot, or at a point where a
driveway intersects a street, formed by measuring the prescribed distance from
the intersection of the front (or rear) and street side property lines at an
intersecting street or alley, and connecting the lines diagonally across the
property making a ninety degree (90°) triangle; and
      2.   The triangular shaped area on each side of any driveway intersecting
a street or alley.
   FIGURE 3-1
   CLEAR SIGHT TRIANGLE GRAPHIC
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/36f3714c43e7ed5d919a0c9b7f62d682a315a495/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2654.gif]
   C.   Clear Sight Triangle Required Dimensions: Table 3-2, "Clear Sight
Triangle Required Dimensions", of this section identifies the required
dimensions for a clear sight triangle:
      TABLE 3-2
      CLEAR SIGHT TRIANGLE REQUIRED DIMENSIONS
 
                                 Required Dimension For
Type Of Intersection             A Clear Sight Triangle
                                 Standard Lot Irregular Lot With No
                                              Intersection Visibility
Street right of way and alley    15 feet      17 feet
2 intersecting alleys            15 feet      17 feet
Street right of way and driveway 10 feet      17 feet
Street and street                30 feet      35 feet
 
   D.   Maximum Height Requirement: The following shall not be erected, placed,
or planted, or allowed to grow over thirty inches (30") in height above the
nearest street curb elevation within a clear sight triangle:
      1.   Fences and walls.
      2.   Signs, see also
 chapter 9.36, "Sign Regulations", of this article 3.
      3.   Structures.
      4.   Mounds of earth.
      5.   Other visual obstructions.
   E.   Exceptions: The requirements for clear sight triangle shall not apply
to:
      1.   Traffic safety devices.
      2.   Trees trimmed from the ground surface up to eight feet (8') above
the adjoining curb.
      3.   Utility poles.
      4.   Other utility installed or maintained devices allowed by this
development code.
      5.   Freestanding sign when the lower edge of the sign face is at least
eight feet (8') above grade and where there are no more than two (2) posts or
columns, each with a maximum width or diameter of twelve inches (12"),
supporting the sign.
   F.   Prohibited:
      Political signs.
      Real estate signs.
      Sign twirlers. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.31.030: HEIGHT REGULATIONS AND EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   General Provisions: The maximum structure height development standards
established by the zoning districts may be increased as specified by this
section, provided such increase does not conflict with airport safety
regulations or approved conditions of approval.
   B.   Permitted Structural Height Increases:
      1.   Single-Family Dwelling Unit: Single-family dwelling units in zoning
districts that impose a height limitation of thirty five feet (35') or less may
exceed the height limit by up to twenty five percent (25%), when two (2) side
yards of at least twenty feet (20') are provided.
      2.   Institutional Structures: Institutional structures in zoning
districts that impose a height limitation of thirty five feet (35') or less may
exceed the height limit by up to twenty five percent (25%), when the required
front, side and rear yards are increased an additional one foot (1') in excess
of minimum requirements for each four feet (4') in height above thirty five
feet (35').
      3.   Miscellaneous Structures: The maximum structure height specified in
a zoning district may be exceeded by no more than fifty percent (50%) for
structures identified in table 3-3, "Structures That May Exceed Height Limit",
of this section, subject to an approved land use compliance review:
      TABLE 3-3
      STRUCTURES THAT MAY EXCEED HEIGHT LIMIT
      Barns, silos, grain elevators, and other farm buildings or structures in
open space, residential-hillside reserve, and rural living zoning districts.
      Birdhouses.
      Bulkhead and skylights.
      Church steeples and towers.
      Cooling towers, gas holders, smokestacks, or other structures in
industrial zoning districts which are required by permitted industrial
processes.
      Cupolas, domes, skylights, and gables.
      Distribution and transmission cables and towers.
      Elevator housing.
      Fire and hose towers.
      Fire or parapet walls.
      Flagpoles.
      Mechanical equipment and its screening.
      Monuments.
      Noncommercial antennas up to 65 feet in residential zoning districts.
      Observation and carillon towers.
      Ornamental towers and spheres.
      Outdoor theater screens.
      Penthouses.
      Radio and television station towers.
      Residential chimney, flues, smokestacks, and enclosures.
      Sign spires.
      Stairway housing.
      Water tanks and water towers.
      Other roof structures and mechanical equipment similar to those listed
above.
(Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
CHAPTER 9.32
LANDSCAPING AND WATER CONSERVATION
SECTION:
9.32.010: Purpose And Intent
9.32.020: Applicability
9.32.030: Exemptions From The Landscaping Requirements
9.32.040: Modification To The Landscaping Requirements
9.32.050: Landscape Documentation Package
9.32.060: Landscaping Area Requirements
9.32.070: Development Standards
9.32.080: Irrigation Scheduling And Maintenance Required
9.32.090: Landscape Certificate Of Completion Submittal
9.32.100: Nonpotable/Recycled Water
9.32.110: Stormwater Management
9.32.010: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The town promotes the value and benefits of landscapes while recognizing the
need to use water and other resources as efficiently as possible. In compliance
with applicable state standards and guidelines, this chapter establishes
minimum landscape standards for all uses for the purpose of enhancing the
appearance of developments, reducing heat and glare, controlling soil erosion,
conserving water, establishing a buffer and/or screen between residential and
nonresidential land uses, and ensuring the ongoing maintenance of landscape
areas. Water conservation measures shall be addressed through landscape and
irrigation design. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.32.020: APPLICABILITY:
The director may delegate authority for review, inspection and approval of
plans and installations, as well as other implementation of this chapter to the
local water purveyor in order to avoid duplication of processes and efforts
specific to allowable water use, irrigation system design, metering
requirements and other standards regulated by the local water purveyor.
A landscape document package shall be submitted for review and approval for the
following projects:
   A.   All new and rehabilitated landscapes associated with homeowner
installed residential uses (including single residential units/projects) with a
total landscape area that is five thousand (5,000) square feet or greater.
   B.   All new and rehabilitated landscapes associated with any developer
installed residential uses (including single and multiple residential projects)
with a total landscape area that is two thousand five hundred (2,500) square
feet or greater.
   C.   All new and rehabilitated landscapes associated with any owner and/or
developer installed commercial, institutional, and/or industrial uses with a
total landscape area that is two thousand five hundred (2,500) square feet or
greater.
   D.   All new and rehabilitated landscapes within cemeteries. These projects
need only prepare a water budget that specifies the facilities' maximum applied
water allowance (MAWA) and estimated annual water use (EAWU), and they must
meet the provisions set forth in sections
 9.32.060 and
9.32.070 of this chapter.
   E.   If existing physical constraints on the site (e.g., structures,
parking, circulation, etc.) limit the amount of landscaping that can be
provided, whatever additional landscaping the site can accommodate toward
meeting the landscape area requirements of this chapter shall be provided.
(Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.32.030: EXEMPTIONS FROM THE LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS:
The following projects shall be exempt from landscaping requirements:
   A.   Those properties that have been registered as local, state, and/or
federal historical sites.
   B.   Undisturbed portions of residential subdivisions, such as areas which
are to remain natural for native plant protection and/or management, for the
protection of a wildlife corridor, or for other natural resource management all
of which will not require supplemental water or the approval as a viable
landscape by the director.
   C.   Undisturbed portions of nonresidential project sites.
   D.   Those properties that are currently in agricultural production are
exempt from the requirements of this chapter. Commercial agriculture production
requiring more intense water usage shall be subject to separate water
efficiency standards as regulated by the state of California and local water
resource agencies.
   E.   Those properties that are part of an ecological restoration project(s)
and do not require the use of a permanent irrigation system.
   F.   Those properties that are part of a mined land reclamation project(s)
and do not require the use of a permanent irrigation system.
   G.   Those plant collections, as part of botanical gardens and arboretums
that are open to the public. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.32.040: MODIFICATION TO THE LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Director Approval: The director may approve modifications to the
requirements of this chapter. The modifications shall be limited to the
following:
      1.   Minor modifications to the approved landscape documentation package
that comply with the spirit and intent of the requirements, including, but not
limited to, revising or substituting plant varieties, container sizes, plant
locations, irrigation specifications, hardscape components, berm heights and/or
locations, slope features, and other similar changes.
      2.   Any minor modifications of planting, installation, and/or soil
preparation details as listed within the approved landscape documentation
package.
      3.   The occupancy of structures prior to the installation of landscaping
due to exceptional and unforeseen circumstances when a bond or other surety is
provided in compliance with subsection
9.32.050C, "Statement Of Surety", of this chapter.
   B.   Conditions Imposed In Connection With Modifications: In granting
modifications to any approved landscape documentation package, the director may
impose conditions as deemed necessary to comply with the spirit and intent of
these regulations. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.32.050: LANDSCAPE DOCUMENTATION PACKAGE:
   A.   Landscape Documentation Package Requirements: A landscape documentation
package shall be submitted for review and approval for those projects specified
in section
9.32.020, "Applicability", of this chapter, consisting of the following:
      1.   Title Sheet: Pertinent project information (i.e., applicant contact
information, representative contact information if applicable, assessor's
parcel number, etc.) shall be included on a title sheet. The following
statement is to be placed on the title sheet of the landscape documentation
package:
I agree that this landscape documentation package complies with the landscaping
requirements as outlined by
Chapter 9.32  of the Town of Yucca Valley Development Code; as well as any
other requirements as outlined in supporting documentation regarding water
efficient- landscaping requirements provided by the Town of Yucca Valley.
The title sheet shall bear the signature of a licensed professional authorized
to design landscape plans.
      2.   Demolition Plan: The landscape demolition plan, if applicable, shall
show all landscape elements, and/or hardscape elements, that will affect the
proposed landscaped areas, and identify each element to be removed or protected
in place. Any existing regulated native species shall be identified and shall
not be removed without a removal permit.
      3.   Construction Plan: The landscape construction plan shall detail the
hardscape elements, i.e., sidewalks, mow curbs, aesthetic elements, etc., that
are proposed as part of the landscape design.
      4.   Water Budget: A project's water budget shall be based on the
following calculations and shall be included on the irrigation plan:
         a.   Maximum Applied Water Allowance (MAWA): The MAWA for the project
shall be calculated using the following formula:
 
MAWA (in gallons) = (ETo)(0.62)[(0.7 x LA) + (0.3 x SLA)]
Where:     
          The project area specific reference evapotranspiration rate (inches),
(1) ETo:  as outlined in the California irrigation management information
          system (CIMIS), other equivalent data, or soil moisture sensor data.
(2) 0.62: The conversion factor, which converts acre-inches per acre per year
          to gallons per square foot per year.
          The ET adjustment factor, that, when applied to the ETo, adjusts for
          plant factors and irrigation efficiency, which are 2 major influences
          upon the amount of water that needs to be applied to the project's
          landscaped areas. Those areas using nonpotable/recycled water for
(3) 0.70: irrigation purposes may use the ET adjustment factor, which shall not
          exceed of 1.0. The ET adjustment factor is figured by dividing the
          average sitewide plant factor, found in the "Water Use
          Classifications Of Landscape Species", third edition (WUCOLS III),
          with the average irrigation efficiency of 0.71, as defined by state
          law;
(4) LA:   The project's total landscaped area (including SLA) in square feet;
          and
          The project's total special landscaped area (i.e., areas dedicated to
          edible plants, areas irrigated with nonpotable/recycled water, and
(5) SLA:  publicly accessible areas dedicated to active play such as parks,
          sports fields, golf courses, and where turf provides a playing field
          or where turf is needed for high traffic activities) in square feet.
 
         b.   Estimated Annual Water Use (EAWU): The EAWU for project specific
hydrozones shall be calculated using the following formula:
EAWU (in gallons) = (ETo)(0.62)[((PF x HA)/IE) + SLA]
Where:     
          The project area specific reference evapotranspiration rate (inches),
(1) ETo:  as outlined in the California irrigation management information
          system (CIMIS), other equivalent data, or soil moisture sensor data.
(2) 0.62: The conversion factor, which converts acre-inches per acre, per year
          to gallons per square foot, per year.
          The plant factor found in the "Water Use Classifications Of Landscape
(3) PF:   Species", third edition (WUCOLS III) publication, available from the
          department of water resources. The plant factors range from: low (0
          to 0.3), medium (0.4 to 0.6), and high (0.7 to 1.0).
          The hydrozone area in a square foot number based on water usage areas
          within the particular landscaping area (i.e., high, medium, and low,
          see above). If plants with low water requirements are used within a
(4) HA:   medium water use hydrozone (those plants that can also survive/
          flourish in a medium water use application), they shall be counted as
          a medium water use in the water budget calculations. The same
          requirement applies for those plants that can also be utilized in a
          high water use application.
          The irrigation efficiency of the projects irrigation systems. For the
          purposes of determining the EAWU, the average irrigation efficiency
(5) IE:   is assumed to be 0.71, based on state law. All project irrigation
          systems shall be designed, maintained, and managed to meet or exceed
          an average irrigation efficiency of 0.71, as defined by state law.
          The project's total special landscaped area (i.e., areas dedicated to
          edible plants, areas irrigated with nonpotable/recycled water, and
(6) SLA:  publicly accessible areas dedicated to active play such as parks,
          sports fields, golf courses, and where turf provides a playing field
          or where turf is needed for high traffic activities) in square feet.
          The landscaping plans shall provide the EAWU (in the same units as
(7)      the MAWA is provided) for each valve stationed on the project
          specific irrigation controller. The sum of the projected EAWU shall
          not exceed the projected MAWA for the project.
 
      5.   Landscape Planting Plan:
         a.   Plant Groupings: Plants selected for the landscape planting plan
shall have similar water needs and be grouped together in distinct hydrozones
for maximum water efficiency.
         b.   Plant Hardiness: Plants selected for the landscape planting plan
shall be selected based upon their adaptability to the climate in which the
project is located, as well as the geologic and topographical conditions. Where
possible, the preservation and protection of existing native plant species and
natural areas shall be encouraged.
      6.   Landscape Irrigation Plan: The plan shall include all components of
the irrigation system (i.e., valves, heads, sensors, etc.). The water budget
information shall be used in the preparation of the irrigation plan and shall
be included on the plan.
      7.   Hydrozone Plan: A separate hydrozone plan shall be prepared in
conjunction with the irrigation plan calling out the distinct hydrozone plant
groupings.
      8.   Landscape Grading Plan: If the proposed grading exceeds fifty (50)
cubic yards, the developer shall submit the most recent rough/precise grading
plans and elevations for the project site. These plans shall bear the signature
of a licensed professional authorized by law.
      9.   Soil Management Report: To help further reduce runoff and help
encourage healthy plant growth, a project specific soil management report with
soil amendment recommendations shall be submitted as part of the landscape
documentation package.
   B.   Review And Approval: Prior to the issuance of permits, the developer
shall submit a complete landscape documentation package for review and
approval.
   C.   Statement Of Surety: When required by the director, a statement of
surety in the form of cash, performance bond, letter of credit, or certificate
of deposit in an amount equal to one hundred twenty percent (120%) of the total
value of all plant materials, irrigation equipment, installation, and
maintenance shall be posted with the town for a two (2) year period. The
director may require statements of surety for phased development projects, a
legitimate delay in landscape installation due to seasonal requirements
(including adverse weather conditions) and similar circumstances where it may
not be advisable or desirable to install all of a project's landscaping before
occupancy of a site.
   D.   Local Water Purveyor: If special provisions have been arranged for a
local water purveyor to review and approve a specific project's landscape
documentation package, a stamped set of plans approved by the local water
purveyor shall be provided. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.32.060: LANDSCAPING AREA REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   General Requirements:
      1.   Setbacks: Setback and open space areas required by this development
code shall be landscaped based on the requirements of this chapter, except the
portion where a sidewalk or driveway occurs in the required setback. Required
setbacks that are screened from public view in commercial and industrial zones,
and are not adjacent to residentially zoned property, are exempt from the
provisions of this chapter.
      2.   Unused Areas: Areas of a project site not intended for a specific
use shall be landscaped based on the requirements of this chapter, unless
exempt in compliance with section
9.32.030, "Exemptions From The Landscaping Requirements", of this chapter.
      3.   Parking Areas: Parking areas shall be landscaped in compliance with
subsection
 9.33.110K, "Landscaping Requirements For Parking Areas", of this article 3 and
the water efficient landscaping requirements of this chapter.
   B.   Landscaping In Lieu Of Parking Spaces: Landscaping may be provided in
lieu of ten percent (10%) of the total number of parking spaces required,
provided the landscaping is arranged so that parking may be installed at a
later date if a demand arises, and further provided, that the owner agrees to
provide parking at the request of the reviewing agency. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.32.070: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Design Standards: The elements within the landscape documentation
package (i.e., planting, irrigation, construction, etc.) shall incorporate the
following:
      1.   Cohesive Landscape Design: Landscaped areas shall be made an
integral part of the overall project design and shall not be simply located in
excess space after parking areas and structures have been planned on site.
Additionally, landscaped areas should have a coordinating design that blends
with the architectural influence of the site. Larger developments may utilize a
variety of themes throughout landscaped areas to distinguish key areas and
elements within the development, yet these design concepts shall be consistent
with the unifying concept established for the development.
      2.   Scale And Character: Landscape materials (i.e., planting and
hardscape) shall be selected so that the scale and character are appropriate to
the site architecture and/or use of the site.
      3.   Functional Landscapes: Landscaped areas shall be utilized to enhance
and define entrances, sidewalks, and pedestrian areas. Additionally, landscaped
areas shall be utilized to control microclimates as well as enhance views.
Plant materials that provide seasonal color via flowers or foliage shall be
provided as an accent to entrances and sidewalks, and shall be considered
throughout the landscape.
      4.   Landscape Design Features: Aesthetic landscape design features such
as sculptures, decorative paving, benches, trellises, arbors, etc., shall be
strongly encouraged within landscaped areas. Aesthetic landscape design
features do not include driveways, parking areas, and/or storage areas.
      5.   Sidewalks: All sidewalks, where necessary and appropriate, shall be
shown on the landscape plans (i.e., planting, irrigation, construction, etc.).
This will ensure proper planting and irrigation design around proposed
sidewalks.
      6.   Alternative Hardscape Materials: Decomposed granite, pea gravel,
mulch, bark, recycled tire mulch, play area surfacing, and other similar
materials may be used in functional activity areas (i.e., patios, rear entry
walks, trails, etc.).
      7.   Water Features: If a water feature such as a pond or fountain is
used within a project's landscape then the project's water budget calculations
(MAWA) will need to include the surface area of the water feature with the
evaporation rate equivalent to that of a high water use plant. Where available,
if not utilized by the public as a recreation source, a nonpotable/recycled
water source shall be used for any decorative water features. Decorative water
features shall be on a recirculating system and shall be maintained on a
regular basis.
      8.   Screening: Planting material and/or hardscape material, such as
block walls, wood fencing, vinyl fencing, etc., shall be required to screen
storage areas, trash enclosures, parking areas, air conditioning units, and
other such elements (except residential driveways). Additionally, any
aboveground public utilities, such as, but not limited to, electrical
substations, water storage facilities, and treatment plants shall also be
provided with perimeter landscape screening to the extent possible.
      9.   Bioswales: Where possible, bioswales shall be incorporated into
landscaped areas to help maintain, manage, and prevent runoff. All bioswales
shall be a mixture of hardscape materials, i.e., rocks, boulders, riprap, and
plant materials suitable for bioswales; impermeable surfacing shall be avoided
in all bioswales.
      10.   High Maintenance Landscaping: High maintenance landscaped areas
shall be kept to a minimum. If high maintenance landscaped areas are proposed
as part of a project's landscaping, these areas shall be located near primary
uses and high activity areas.
      11.   Maximum Height For Clear Sight Triangles: Any planting material
and/or hardscape elements over thirty inches (30") in height shall not be
allowed within a clear sight triangle formed by the intersection of public
rights of way, parking lot entrances and exits, pedestrian rights of way,
driveways, or alleys as described in section
9.31.020, "Clear Sight Triangle", of this article 3.
      12.   Phased Development: Disturbed nonresidential project sites,
including those that have been approved with phasing, where future development
is intended within six (6) months of approval, or intended to begin within six
(6) months after the completion of a previous phase shall be hydroseeded with a
nonirrigated mix of annuals and natives. Supplemental water shall be provided
to the hydroseeded areas to establish plant health. The hydroseeded areas shall
be maintained in a weed free condition until development occurs on site. The
proposed hydroseed mix shall be submitted for review and approval.
   B.   Planting Plan Requirements: Planting plans shall include the following:
      1.   Plant Material Varieties: Plant materials shall include water
conserving trees (deciduous and evergreen), shrubs, and ground cover that are
attractive and useful for erosion control. The use of one predominant species
shall be avoided to prevent spread of disease and pests.
      2.   Plant Materials: Plant materials shall be a cohesive mix of
evergreen and deciduous trees, shrubs, ground covers, succulents, and native
plant material that are drought and infestation tolerant; turf is highly
discouraged and shall be minimized and be placed in compliance with this
chapter. Appropriate desert plant materials shall be selected based on their
appropriate plant hardiness climate zones as defined by "Sunset Western Garden
Book" and their classifications per the "Water Use Classifications Of Landscape
Species", third edition (WUCOLS III) publication, available from the department
of water resources.
      3.   Coordination Of Plant Materials: Plant types shall be grouped
together based on their water, soil, sun, and shade requirements, as well as
their relation to natural watercourses on site, existing vegetation that is to
remain, and their relationship to building orientation. Plant types with
different water needs shall be placed on separate irrigation valves within
specific hydrozones. Plant types with similar classifications such as high and
moderate, moderate and low, low and very low, per the WUCOLS III publication,
shall be grouped together in planting areas.
      4.   Native And Drought Tolerant Plant Materials: Native and drought
tolerant plant materials capable of surviving with a minimal amount of
supplemental water shall be utilized.
      5.   Landscaped Setbacks: The front yard and street side yard setback
areas of a parcel shall be landscaped using xeriscape landscaping techniques,
which combines drought tolerant plant and hardscape materials in a variety of
aesthetically pleasing designs. For sites where no disturbance of land within
setbacks is proposed, landscaping shall not be required.
      6.   Mulch: Where appropriate, use rock mulch including cobblestones,
crushed rock, and similar gravels in place of organic mulch. Rock mulch can
assist in dust control as well.
      7.   Dust Control: If grading takes place, then a dust control plan shall
be submitted for review.
      8.   Shade Trees: Where appropriate, shade trees shall be provided for
residential, commercial, institutional, and industrial buildings, parking lots,
open space areas, etc. The trees shall be incorporated to provide natural
cooling opportunities and water conservation.
      9.   Invasive Plants: The use of invasive plant materials shall be
avoided in areas near parks, buffers, conservation areas/reserves, and other
open space areas because of the potential to cause harm to environmentally
sensitive areas.
      10.   Vines: To aid in the prevention of graffiti, self-clinging vines
shall be planted to help ensure full coverage of the public-facing side of all
walls.
      11.   Edible Plants: If edible plant material is proposed as part of the
landscape design, it shall be clearly defined and kept separate from all other
plant material. Nonpotable/recycled water shall not be used to irrigate edible
plant material areas.
      12.   Fire Prone Plants: Plant materials that are fire prone and highly
flammable shall be avoided.
      13.   Plant Material Spacing: Trees proposed within the road right of way
shall be planted thirty (30) linear feet on center from one another, unless
another on center spacing is specified within the project's conditions of
approval. In open space areas, trees shall be planted in odd number groupings
to allow for a more natural look and feel. The on center spacing for shrub and
ground cover materials shall be based on the size of the specific plant species
at maturity. Careful consideration shall be given to proposed plant materials
height and spreads so that at maturity they do not interfere with service
lines, a driver's or pedestrian's view of public rights of way (e.g., the view
of approaching, merging, or intersecting traffic, etc.), or otherwise impair
public safety, or interfere with the safe operation of a motor vehicle on
public streets.
      14.   Plant Material Container Sizes: Plant materials shall be provided
in an array of several container sizes. Container sizes for plant material
shall include some of the following:
         a.   Trees: Fifteen (15) gallon, twenty four inch (24") box, thirty
six inch (36") box, forty eight inch (48") box, fifty two inch (52") box,
seventy two inch (72") box, ninety six inch (96") box, and field dug.
         b.   Palms: Six (6) to fifteen foot (15') brown trunk height (BTH).
         c.   Shrubs: One gallon, two (2) gallon, five (5) gallon, and fifteen
(15) gallon.
         d.   Ground covers: Flats and one gallon.
      15.   Plant Solar Orientation: Plant materials shall be planted in a
manner considerate of solar orientation to help maximize summer shade and water
conservation.
      16.   Turf: Turf is prohibited for use as aesthetic landscaping in
commercial and industrial projects. Turf is only allowed for limited uses
within parks, sports fields, golf courses, and where turf provides a playing
field or where turf is needed for high traffic activities. Where turf is
installed, the use of warm season turf shall be strongly encouraged.
Furthermore, unless subsurface or other low flow or nonspray irrigation is
proposed, all turf areas shall be a minimum twenty four inches (24") away from
nonpermeable surfaces as to minimize irrigation runoff and overspray.
      17.   Slope Design: Slopes with a five to one (5:1) ratio or greater; cut
slopes with a five foot (5') vertical height or greater; and fill slopes with a
three foot (3') vertical height or greater shall be protected against damage
from erosion. In addition to the stabilizing mulch, drought tolerant plant
material and hardscape features shall be utilized on slopes to promote water
retention and erosion control. Decorative boulders and other suitable hardscape
materials may be utilized on slopes, but the dominant visual character of the
slope shall be made up of drought tolerant plant materials. Shrubs shall be
used in combination with lateral spreading ground covers; trees shall be used
where slope exceeds fifteen feet (15') vertical height. Trees and shrubs shall
be planted in visually attractive groupings that provide a more natural
appearance.
   C.   Irrigation Plan Requirements: Irrigation plans shall include the
following:
      1.   Efficiency: Irrigation systems shall be designed, installed,
maintained, and managed to achieve the highest efficiency rate as possible, and
shall meet and maintain an average efficiency rate of 0.71, as defined by state
law. High efficiency methods of irrigation (i.e., drip irrigation, efficient
rotators, rotary nozzles, microsprays, etc.) are recommended within the
irrigation design.
      2.   Water Pressure: Static water pressure, dynamic, or operating
pressure and flow reading of the water supply shall be measured at the point of
connection (POC). These pressure and flow measurements shall be conducted at
the design stage to help aid in the design of the irrigation systems. If these
measurements are not available at the design stage, the measurements shall be
obtained at time of construction and the irrigation design adjusted
accordingly. The design of the irrigation systems will ensure that each
emission device is within the manufacturer's recommended dynamic pressure range
for optimal performance.
      3.   Variables In Static Pressure: If the measured static pressure is
above or below the required dynamic pressure for optimal performance of the
irrigation system then pressure regulating devices (i.e., inline pressure
regulators, booster pumps, etc.) shall be specified and installed in order to
meet the dynamic pressure required for optimal performance of the irrigation
systems.
      4.   Matched Precipitation Rates: Irrigation heads (i.e., spray heads,
rotors, etc.) and other emission devices shall have matched precipitation rates
unless otherwise directed by the manufacturer's specifications.
      5.   Capacity: The capacity of the irrigation system shall not exceed the
capacity required based on the water budget calculations for peak water demand,
meter capacity, and/or the backflow preventer type and device capacity. If the
project is served by a local water purveyor then it is recommended that the
project developer contact the water purveyor and inquire about peak water
demands (on the main water supply system) and any known water restrictions that
could possibly impact the effectiveness of the irrigation systems.
      6.   Runoff And Overspray: Soil types and infiltration rates shall be
taken into account when irrigation systems are designed and installed.
Irrigation systems shall be designed and installed to prevent runoff, low head
drainage, overspray, or other similar conditions where water flows onto
adjacent property, nonirrigated areas, sidewalks, roadways, or structures. The
use of check valves shall be required on all irrigation systems to prevent low
head drainage. Proper irrigation design, equipment, and schedules, including
repeating cycles, shall be used in order to match application rates and help
minimize runoff.
      7.   Head To Head Coverage: Irrigation systems shall be designed to
utilize head to head coverage with matched precipitation rate nozzles. Rotors
and spray heads shall be zoned separately. When using rotors, half arc rotors
and full rotors shall be zoned separately, unless matched precipitation rate
nozzles are utilized.
      8.   Water Waste: Water waste is the result of inefficient irrigation due
to runoff, overspray, low head drainage, and other similar conditions that
cause flows to run onto adjacent nonirrigated areas, walks, roadways, parking
lots, etc. It shall be the responsibility of the property owner to prevent
water waste on their property by properly maintaining, managing, and replacing
irrigation equipment per the regular maintenance schedule. Restrictions in
regards to overspray may be considered and modified if the following occur:
         a.   The landscaped area is directly adjacent to a permeable surface
and no runoff occurs; or
         b.   If the directly adjacent nonpermeable surfaces have been designed
and installed to drain entirely into a landscaped area on site.
      9.   Meters: Meters shall be provided in accordance with Hi-Desert water
district standards and requirements.
      10.   Valves: Separate valves shall be provided for those planting areas
with similar water uses, so plantings with similar water needs are on the same
irrigation valve. All turf areas shall be placed on a separate valve from
nonturf areas. Where feasible, trees shall be placed on a separate deep root
watering system with its own valve.
      11.   Equipment: All irrigation systems shall be equipped with the
following:
         a.   "Smart" Irrigation Controller: All irrigation systems shall be
equipped with a smart irrigation control, which automatically adjusts the
frequency and/or duration of irrigation events in response to changing
environmental conditions. Landscaped areas shall be zoned together in relation
to moisture control zones, which shall be based on similarity of water needs
(i.e., turf separate from shrubs and ground covers, sun exposure areas separate
from shade areas, top of slope separate from toe of slope, etc.).
         b.   Weather Sensing Devices: All irrigation systems shall be equipped
with weather sensing devices (i.e., rain, wind, freeze, etc.), either integral
or auxiliary, that suspend or alter system operations during unfavorable
weather conditions.
         c.   Flow Sensor: A flow sensing device is recommended for all
irrigation systems so that irregular flows within the system can be detected
and repaired.
         d.   Manual Shutoff Valves: All irrigation systems shall be equipped
with manual shutoff valves (i.e., gate valve, ball valve, butterfly valve,
etc.) that are located as close as possible to the irrigation system's point of
connection (POC) and also where jointed transitions occur on the mainline to
minimize water loss in case of an emergency and/or scheduled routine repair.
         e.   Pressure Regulator: All irrigation systems shall be equipped with
a pressure regulator that regulates when the static pressure is above or below
the recommended operating pressure for the designed irrigation system.
         f.   Backflow Preventers: All irrigation systems shall be equipped
with a backflow prevention device in accordance with Hi-Desert water district
and California building code standards and requirements.
         g.   Swing Joints/Riser Protection: In order to prevent damage that
may be caused to irrigation heads adjacent to hardscape and high traffic areas,
all irrigation systems shall utilize swing joints and other riser protection.
      12.   Soils: Relevant information provided in the soil management report,
such as soil types and infiltration rates shall be utilized when irrigation
systems are designed.
      13.   Nonpermeable Surfaces: Conventional spray irrigation shall not be
permitted within twenty four inches (24") of any nonpermeable surface.
Irrigation systems that are allowed within the twenty four inch (24") setback
from a nonpermeable surface range from drip, drip line, other low flow or
nonspray technology. If the landscape area is adjacent to permeable surfacing
and no overspray or runoff occurs then there shall be no restrictions on the
irrigation system type.
      14.   Irregular Shaped Areas: Those areas that are long, narrow, and/or
irregular shaped, including turf areas, less than eight feet (8') in any
direction shall be irrigated with low volume irrigation or subsurface
irrigation technology.
      15.   Irrigation On Slopes: Nonturf areas located on slopes greater than
twenty five percent (25%) shall be irrigated with a drip irrigation system or
other low volume irrigation technology. This requirement may be modified and an
alternative design and/or technology proposed if that design/technology
demonstrates that no runoff or erosion will occur.
      16.   Mulched Planting Areas: In planting areas that utilize a form of
mulch, the use of a low volume irrigation system shall be required in order to
maximize water infiltration into the plant's root zone.
      17.   Nonpotable/Recycled Water: Where available, the use of nonpotable/
recycled water to irrigate planting areas shall be utilized. If facilities are
made available, water systems for common open spaces (i.e., parks, preserves,
etc.) shall use nonpotable/recycled water. If nonpotable/recycled water is used
for irrigation systems then all systems shall be designed to meet all
applicable local agency and state codes regarding the use of nonpotable/
recycled water.
      18.   Hydrozones: Irrigation systems shall be zoned in accordance to
plant water use, slope aspects, and sun/shade microclimates.
   D.   Hydrozone Plan: Each irrigation design plan shall include a separate
hydrozone plan outlining the hydrozones that are valved separately within all
landscaped areas.
   E.   Grading Plan Requirements: For the efficient use of water, grading of
the project site shall be designed so that soil erosion, runoff, and water
waste are minimized. As part of the landscape documentation package, if a
project's grading exceeds fifty (50) cubic yards, then the project developer
shall submit the most recent rough and/or precise grading plan(s) that have
been prepared and signed by a licensed professional as authorized by law.
   F.   Soil Management Report: A soil management report is required as part of
the landscape documentation package when mass grading is not proposed. When
mass grading is proposed, the soil management report shall be submitted with
the certificate of completion.
      1.   Development Of The Soil Management Report: The steps listed below
are intended to help guide the developer in the preparation of the soil
management report:
         a.   Perform a preliminary site inspection;
         b.   To obtain the necessary sample, determine the appropriate level
of soil sampling and sampling method;
         c.   To determine the soil in the landscape area has sufficient depth
to support proposed plants perform a soil probe test; and
         d.   Obtain appropriate soil sample.
      2.   Soil Sample(s): Once a soil sample(s) has been obtained from the
project site it shall be submitted to the appropriate laboratory for analysis
and recommendations. Minimum requirements for the soil analysis should include
soil texture, infiltration rate determined by lab tests or soil texture
infiltration rate table, pH, total soluble salts, sodium, and any
recommendations. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.32.080: IRRIGATION SCHEDULING AND MAINTENANCE REQUIRED:
   A.   Landscape Maintenance: All landscaped areas shall be properly
maintained to ensure water use efficiency and overall plant health. A regular
maintenance schedule shall be submitted to the town and the local water
purveyor, if applicable, with the landscape certificate of completion for all
projects subject to the provisions of this chapter.
      1.   Responsibilities Of Property Owners: Property owners shall be
responsible for the installation and the regular maintenance and management of
landscaped areas on their property and within the contiguous landscaped rights
of way/parkways. Those rights of way/parkways that are maintained by the town
shall not be the responsibility of the property owner.
      2.   Maintenance Practices: The following maintenance practices shall be
part of the regular maintenance schedule and shall be performed on a regular
basis to ensure water use efficiency and overall plant health:
         a.   For the overall health of plant material pruning, cultivating,
weeding, fertilizing, watering, and replenishing mulch on a regular basis shall
be part of a regular maintenance schedule. All pruning shall be in compliance
with the adopted pruning standards of the western chapter of the International
Society Of Arboriculture.
         b.   The removal of dead, decayed, diseased, or hazardous trees and/or
shrubs, weeds, and debris constituting unsightly appearance, dangerous to
public safety and welfare or detrimental to neighboring properties or property.
         c.   Any dead or dying plant material shall be removed and replaced as
quickly as possible. Any accumulation of leaves, twigs, bark, and other similar
materials shall be removed on a regular basis. All landscaped areas shall be
kept in a weed free fashion at all times.
         d.   Litter removal from all landscaped areas shall be performed on a
regular basis.
         e.   All turf areas shall be mowed, aerated, and dethatched on a
regular basis to ensure the overall health of the turf.
         f.   Plantings shall be irrigated as often as necessary to maintain
healthy growing conditions. Damage to the landscaping and irrigation systems
shall be corrected as quickly as possible.
         g.   All irrigation systems, and components, shall be routinely
inspected, adjusted, and repaired. Any obstructions to emission devices shall
be removed. If repair to the irrigation equipment is necessary, the replacement
parts shall conform to all standards that govern the original irrigation
installation and/or approved landscaping plans.
         h.   Mulch shall be routinely replenished as part of the regular
maintenance schedule. The depth, type, and replenishment frequency of all mulch
within landscaped areas shall be listed as part of the regular maintenance
schedule.
         i.   The operation of the irrigation systems outside of the normal
watering window shall only be allowed for system auditing and maintenance.
         j.   The property owner is encouraged to implement sustainable and/or
environmentally friendly practices for overall landscape maintenance. If
sustainable and/or environmentally friendly landscape maintenance practices are
utilized then those practices shall be outlined within the regular maintenance
schedule.
      3.   Trimming To Prevent Encroachment Or Obstruction: Plant material
(i.e., trees and shrubs), when established, shall be trimmed so that they do
not encroach upon sidewalks, property lines, or streets. Plant materials shall
not encroach, impede and/or interfere with vehicle or pedestrian traffic, or
obstruct the illumination from any streetlight to the street or sidewalk. Refer
to section
 9.31.020, "Clear Sight Triangle", of this article 3, concerning clear sight
triangles and sections
9.07.120 and
9.09.040 of this title (permitted projections into required setback areas)
concerning projections into yards.
      4.   Trees:
         a.   In residential subdivisions, the developer shall guarantee street
trees for a minimum of one year after acceptance of the tract or until eighty
percent (80%) of the units are occupied, whichever is later. Maintenance of all
trees shall become the responsibility of the homeowner upon occupancy.
         b.   As necessary, all tree guys, stakes, etc., shall be adjusted on a
regular basis and replaced in order to maintain a neat appearance and to
prevent damage to trees. All tree guys, stakes, etc., shall be removed after
the first growing season to ensure the continuing health of the plant.
   B.   Irrigation Schedule: An irrigation schedule shall be developed for all
landscaped areas in order to ensure the efficient use of water. The site
specific irrigation schedule shall be developed, managed, and evaluated to
utilize the least amount of water required to ensure plant health. The site
specific irrigation schedule shall meet the following criteria:
      1.   Two Separate Irrigation Schedules: Two (2) site specific irrigation
schedules shall be prepared. The first schedule shall be for the initial
establishment period of six (6) months and the second schedule shall be for the
established landscape, and shall incorporate the specific water needs of on
site plant material throughout the calendar year.
      2.   Watering Window For Conventional (Overhead) Spray Systems: All
conventional (overhead) spray systems shall be scheduled to run between the
hours of eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. to nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. The project
developer shall check with the local water purveyor, if applicable, to
determine their suggested watering window, and the stricter of the two shall
apply. The operation of the irrigation systems outside of the normal watering
window shall only be allowed for system auditing and maintenance.
      3.   Maximum Applied Water Allowance (MAWA): The total water applied to
the site landscaping shall be less than or equal to the site specific maximum
applied water allowance (MAWA).
      4.   Copies Of Irrigation Schedule: A copy of the project specific
irrigation schedule shall be located within the irrigation controller enclosure
for maintenance purposes. Additionally, a copy of the schedule shall be given
to the property owner prior to occupancy. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.32.090: LANDSCAPE CERTIFICATE OF COMPLETION SUBMITTAL:
Prior to the issuance of the certificate of occupancy or final inspection for a
project that is subject to the requirements within this chapter, a landscape
certificate of completion shall be submitted to the community development
department certifying that the landscape has been installed in accordance with
the approved project specific landscape documentation package. The landscape
certificate of completion shall be signed and dated by the licensed
professional who prepared the plans and shall include the following
information:
   A.   Date.
   B.   Project information to include project name, project applicant name,
telephone and mailing address, project address, location, and assessor's parcel
number, and property owner name and mailing address.
   C.   A statement certifying that the landscaping has been installed in
accordance with the approved project specific landscape documentation package.
   D.   Evidence that the party who is responsible for the installation of the
irrigation systems has conducted a preliminary field inspection prior to
backfilling, and that the irrigation systems are in working order (evidence of
field inspection shall be attached).
   E.   An irrigation audit report indicating that a certified irrigation
auditor has performed and completed an irrigation audit on the installed
irrigation systems, and has ensured water efficiency, and that the irrigation
systems are not in excess of the site specific maximum applied water allowance
(MAWA) per the water budget.
   F.   Documentation that the specified smart irrigation controller has been
set according to the correct irrigation schedule.
   G.   Documentation that all on site irrigation systems have been adjusted to
maximize irrigation efficiency and eliminate irrigation runoff and overspray.
   H.   Documentation that a copy of both of the project specific irrigation
schedules have been given to the property owner for future maintenance and
management obligations.
   I.   If mass grading occurred on the site, a soil management report shall be
included. "Mass grading" is defined as a reconfiguration of existing landform
to where drainage patterns are altered and a substantial amount of clearing is
done. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.32.100: NONPOTABLE/RECYCLED WATER:
Where available, the installation of nonpotable/recycled water irrigation
systems (i.e., dual distribution systems, purple pipe, and interchangeable
components) shall be required to allow for the current and future use of
nonpotable/recycled water. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.32.110: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT:
   A.   Stormwater management practices minimize runoff and increase
infiltration which recharges groundwater and improves water quality.
Implementing stormwater best management practices into the landscape and
grading design plans to minimize runoff and to increase on site retention and
infiltration are encouraged.
   B.   Project applicants shall refer to the local agency or regional water
quality control board for information on any applicable stormwater ordinances
and stormwater management plans.
   C.   Rain gardens, cisterns, and other landscape features and practices that
increase rainwater capture and create opportunities for infiltration and/or on
site storage are recommended. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
CHAPTER 9.33
PARKING AND LOADING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9.33.010: Purpose And Intent
9.33.020: Basic Requirements For Off Street Parking And Loading
9.33.030: Off Street Loading Spaces Requirements
9.33.040: Off Street Parking Spaces Requirements
9.33.050: Parking Spaces For People With Physical Disabilities
9.33.060: Bicycle Parking
9.33.070: Parking Area Design Standards
9.33.080: Location And Design Of Off Street Loading Spaces
9.33.090: Parking Area Plan Required
9.33.100: Standards For Truck Parking
9.33.110: Parking Design Guidelines
9.33.010: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   Ensure that off street parking and loading facilities are provided for
new land uses, and for major alterations and enlargements of existing uses in
proportion to the need for such facility created by each use.
   B.   Ensure that off street parking and loading facilities are designed in a
manner that will ensure efficiency, protect the public health, safety, and
welfare, and where appropriate, insulate surrounding land uses from the adverse
impacts of parking facilities and ingress/egress.
   C.   To ensure improved health, safety, and welfare for the motoring public
through controlling areas to and from public roadways. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.33.020: BASIC REQUIREMENTS FOR OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
   A.   Facilities Required: Off street parking and loading facilities are
required based on the following:
      1.   New Construction: For all new construction, off street parking,
loading, ingress and egress shall be provided in accordance with this chapter.
      2.   Expansion Of Existing Structures: For any expansion/addition to an
existing building that creates the need for additional parking facilities,
parking shall be provided for the existing structure and the expansion area in
accordance with this chapter.
      3.   Change In Use Of An Existing Structure With Existing Parking:
Parking shall be provided in accordance with this chapter for any change in use
that results in the requirement for an increase in the number of parking
spaces:
         a.   No additional parking will be required where the total number of
spaces required for the change in use is less than ten percent (10%) of the
number of spaces required and existing for the use prior to such change. A
change in occupancy is not a change of use unless the new occupant is
considered a different land use classification than the former occupant.
      4.   Change In Use When No Paved Parking Exists: Where a change in use
requires additional parking on a site where there is no existing paved parking,
fifty percent (50%) of the required number of parking spaces shall be improved
in accordance with this chapter.
   B.   Nonconforming Parking Or Loading: No existing use of land or structure
shall be deemed to be nonconforming solely because of the lack of off street
parking or loading facilities required by this chapter, provided that
facilities being used for off street parking and loading as of the date of
adoption of this chapter is not being reduced.
   C.   Spaces Required For Multiple Uses: In the case of mixed occupancies for
all new development, the total requirements for off street parking shall be the
sum of the requirements for the various uses computed separately. Development
projects with uses having different peak hours may be eligible for a reduction
in parking up to a maximum of twenty percent (20%).
   D.   Location And Ownership: Parking required to serve a residential use
shall be on the same site as the use served, except that subject to approval of
the director, parking for interim housing may be located on a different site
under the same or different ownership provided it is adjacent to the use
served. Parking required to serve a nonresidential use shall be on the same
site as the use served or different site under same or different ownership with
an approved parking agreement. Any required landscape setback shall not be used
to meet off street parking requirements.
   E.   Common Loading Facilities: The off street loading facilities required
by this chapter may be satisfied by the permanent allocation of the prescribed
number of spaces for each use in a common truck loading facility, provided that
the total number of spaces shall not be less than the sum of the individual
requirements.
   F.   Computation Of Spaces Required: If, in the application of the
requirements of this chapter, a fractional number is obtained, the number shall
be rounded up or down to the nearest whole number.
   G.   Mixed Use Developments: For planned mixed use developments which
consist of retail, office, and theater or hotel, or other similar combination
of uses parking may be reduced by a maximum of twenty percent (20%) provided
documentation is provided which demonstrates sufficient parking is being
provided. Reduced parking would not be considered for development consisting of
only retail and office. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.33.030: OFF STREET LOADING SPACES REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The required number of loading spaces shall be provided in accordance
with table 3-4, "Required Loading Spaces", of this section.
   B.   References to spaces per square foot are to be computed on the basis of
gross floor area unless otherwise specified, and shall include allocations of
shared restroom, halls, and lobby area, but shall exclude area for stairs or
elevators.
      TABLE 3-4
      REQUIRED LOADING SPACES
Gross Floor Area Loading Spaces Required
Gross Floor Area                                 Loading Spaces Required
General commercial and institutional uses:        
 Less than 5,000 square feet                    None required
 5,000 to 20,000 square feet                    1 loading space
 Each additional 20,000 square feet             1 additional loading space
Professional office uses:                         
 Less than 10,000 square feet                   None required
 10,000 to 99,999 square feet                   1 loading space
 Each additional 100,000 square feet            1 additional loading space
Manufacturing, wholesale, warehousing, and other  
industrial uses:
 Less than 20,000 square feet                   1 loading space
 Each additional 20,000 square feet             1 additional loading space
 
   C.   Loading spaces shall not be allocated or located in required parking
areas or within minimum driveway aisles. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.33.040: OFF STREET PARKING SPACES REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Residential Parking Space Requirements: The required number of parking
spaces for residential uses is provided in table 3-5, "Residential Parking
Space Requirements", of this section.
      TABLE 3-5
      RESIDENTIAL PARKING SPACE REQUIREMENTS
Use Parking Spaces Required
Use                         Parking Spaces Required
Daycare home, large         1 space per 6 children, maximum enrollment based on
                            maximum occupancy load
Duplex dwelling unit        1 space per dwelling unit within a garage or
                            carport
                            1 space per sleeping room plus 1 per 100 square
Interim housing             feet used for assembly purposes or for common
                            sleeping areas
                            2 spaces per unit, 1 covered; tandem parking is
Mobilehome park             permitted, plus 1 space per 8 units which must be
                            designed for guest parking
                            1.5 spaces for each unit containing 1 bedroom; 2
Multi-family                spaces for each unit containing 2 or more bedrooms.
                            At least 1 of the spaces required for each unit
                            shall be within a garage or carport
Residential related:         
 Boarding house            1 space per sleeping room or 1 space per bed,
                            whichever is greater
 Senior housing            1 space per unit within a carport or garage
 Bed and breakfast         1 space per room available for rent in addition to
                            that required for the primary residence
 Residential care          1 space per 3 licensed beds
Second dwelling unit        1 per second unit; a minimum of 2 spaces covered
                            per site (in association with primary unit)
Single-family dwelling unit 2 spaces within a garage or carport
 
   B.   Commercial Parking Space Requirements: The required number of parking
spaces for commercial uses is provided in table 3-6, "Commercial Parking Space
Requirements", of this section.
      TABLE 3-6
      COMMERCIAL PARKING SPACE REQUIREMENTS
Use Parking Spaces Required
Use                                       Parking Spaces Required
Commercial retail and services:            
 Ambulance service                       1 space per 500 square feet plus 1
                                          space per ambulance
 Animal service:                          
  Animal boarding                       1 space per 400 square feet
  Animal grooming                       1 space per 400 square feet
  Animal hospital                       1 space per 400 square feet
 Auto rental                             1 space per 300 square feet of lot
                                          area, plus 1 per rental vehicle
 Auto repair and service                 6 spaces plus 3 spaces per bay
                                          1 space per 5,000 square feet of lot
 Auto storage                            area, plus a minimum of 2 spaces
                                          outside any perimeter fence or secure
                                          area
                                          1 space per 2,000 square feet of open
                                          area devoted to display or sales;
  Automobile sales, boat sales,           provided that where such areas exceed
 mobilehome sales and other similar uses 10,000 square feet, only 1 space
                                          needed to provide for each 5,000
                                          square feet above the first 10,000
                                          square feet contained in such area
 Bingo parlors                           1 space per 2 seats
 Car wash:                                
                                          1 space per 200 square feet of sales,
  Full service                          office, or waiting area; plus a 5
                                          space stacking lane per washing
                                          station
  Self-service                          1 space per stall, plus 2 space
                                          stacking lane in front of each stall
 Catering services                       1 space per 400 square feet
 Communications facility                 1 space per 500 square feet
                                          1 space per each employee or teacher,
 Daycare center                          and 1 space for each 5 children that
                                          the facility is designed to
                                          accommodate
 Fitness center                          1 space per 200 square feet of gross
                                          floor area
 Funeral and interment services          1 space per 50 square feet of seating
                                          area
 Furniture store, appliance store, home  1 space per 300 square feet
  improvement
                                          1 space per guestroom, plus 1 space
                                          per 3 employees on largest shift,
 Hotel/motel                             plus, 1 space per 50 square feet of
                                          banquet seating area, plus parking
                                          for other uses and facilities as
                                          required by this schedule
                                          1 space per 300 square feet of
 Lumberyards and plant nurseries         interior space plus 1 space per 1,000
  (nonwarehouse retail facilities)        square feet of outdoor or open area
                                          used for display or service
 Maintenance and repair (no autos)       1 space per 400 square feet
                                          1 space per 50 square feet of seating
                                          area (including outdoor dining), plus
                                          a stacking area to accommodate a
                                          minimum of 10 cars for drive-through
                                          service independent of any on site
                                          parking, parking maneuvering areas,
 Restaurants (fast food with drive-      and trafficways. The drive-through
  through)                                lanes shall be protected and/or
                                          defined by a curbed landscape strip
                                          not less than 3 feet wide or the
                                          driveway shall be segregated so as to
                                          not interfere with pedestrian or
                                          vehicle traffic and parking as
                                          approved by the commission
  Restaurants (including cafes,           1 space per 50 square feet of seating
 nightclubs, bars, taverns and other     area (including outdoor dining)
  similar establishments)
 Restaurants (takeout service - no       1 space per 250 square feet
  seating)
 Retail sales                            1 space per 250 square feet
 Shopping centers                        1 space per 250 square feet
                                          1 space per employee, plus 1 space
 Studio (art, dance, martial arts,       per 2 students at maximum capacity
  music)                                  based on occupancy of the building
                                          per California building code
 Swap meet                               1 space per 1,000 square feet of lot
                                          area
                                          1 space per 4 fixed seats for up to
 Theaters, movie, or live performance    800 seats, plus 1 per 8 fixed seats
                                          for seats in excess of 800 seats
Commercial recreation:                     
                                          5 spaces per alley, 2 per pool/
 Bowling alleys                          billiard table, plus 1 per 250 square
                                          feet of public assembly and retail
                                          areas
 Driving range                           3 spaces plus 1 space per tee
 Golf course                             4 spaces per hole, plus as required
                                          for any accessory use
 Gymnasium                               1 space per 600 square feet of floor
                                          area plus 1 per employee
 Miniature golf                          3 spaces per hole, plus as required
                                          for any accessory use
                                          2 spaces per pool/billiard table,
 Pool/billiards hall                     plus 1 space per 250 square feet of
                                          public assembly area
                                          1 per 5 fixed seats, or 1 per 35
                                          square feet of seating area if there
 Skating rink (ice or roller)            are no fixed seats; plus 1 per 250
                                          square feet of additional public
                                          assembly area and retail sales
                                          (excluding rink area)
 Tennis/racquetball courts               2 per court, plus as required for any
                                          accessory uses
                                          1 space per 200 square feet or 1
 Video arcade, internet cafe             space per computer terminal,
                                          whichever is greater
Offices:                                   
 General office                          1 space per 250 square feet, minimum
                                          of 4 spaces
 Medical and dental                      1 space per 200 square feet, minimum
                                          of 4 spaces
 
   C.   Industrial Parking Space Requirements: The required number of parking
spaces for industrial uses is provided in table 3-7, "Industrial Parking Space
Requirements", of this section.
      TABLE 3-7
      INDUSTRIAL PARKING SPACE REQUIREMENTS
Use Parking Spaces Required
Use                                  Parking Spaces Required
                                     1 per 350 square feet of industrial use
General manufacturing and industrial plus 1 per 350 square feet of office use
uses                                 plus 1 per vehicle operated in
                                     conjunction with the business
                                     1 space for each 4,000 square feet of
                                     outdoor storage of material or 1 space
Hazardous waste facility             for 250 square feet of office space or 1
                                     space for each 500 square feet of indoor
                                     storage, whichever is greater
                                     6 spaces plus 2 for caretaker, when
Ministorage/public storage           meeting fire department drive aisle width
                                     requirements
                                     1 space for each 4,000 square feet of
Recycling facility (large and small  outdoor storage of material or 1 space
collection facilities)               for 250 square feet of office space or 1
                                     space for each 500 square feet of indoor
                                     storage, whichever is greater
Research and development             1 per 500 square feet
                                     1 per 5,000 square feet of lot area, plus
Salvage and wrecking yard            1 per 300 square feet for office and
                                     sales area
                                     1 per 1,000 square feet plus 1 per 250
Warehousing                          square feet for auxiliary office and
                                     sales uses
 
   D.   Public Facilities Parking Space Requirements: The required number of
parking spaces for public facility uses is provided in table 3-8 of this
section.
      TABLE 3-8
      PUBLIC FACILITIES PARKING SPACE REQUIREMENTS
Use Parking Spaces Required
Use                                     Parking Spaces Required
                                        As specified by conditional use permit
Airports/heliports                      (
                                        chapter 9.63 of this title)
Convalescent facilities, congregate     1 space per 4 licensed beds plus 1 per
care, assisted living facility          employee on largest shift plus 1 per
                                        staff doctor
Cultural institutions/museums           1 space per 300 square feet
Hospitals                               1 space per patient bed
Park facilities                         5 spaces per acre
                                        1 space for every 4 permanent seats in
                                        principal assembly area or room. Where
                                        no permanent seats are provided, 1
Places of assembly                      space for every 30 square feet of floor
                                        area in principal assembly room. 24
                                        linear inches of bench or pew shall be
                                        considered a fixed seat
Retirement or rest homes                1 space per 3 beds plus 1 per employee
                                        on largest shift
Schools (public/private):                
 Nursery/preschool                     1 space per staff member, plus 1 space
                                        per 10 children
 K to 8th grades                       2 spaces per classroom
 9th to 12th grades                    7 spaces per classroom
 Community college                     10 spaces per classroom
                                        10 spaces per classroom, plus 1 space
 University                            per faculty member and employee on the
                                        largest shift
                                        1 space per 1.3 faculty, support staff,
Vocational, trade, or technical schools students during largest attendance
                                        period
 
(Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.33.050: PARKING SPACES FOR PEOPLE WITH PHYSICAL DISABILITIES:
   A.   Compliance: All parking facilities shall comply with the requirements
of the California administrative code (title 24) and with the sign requirements
of the California Vehicle Code section 22511.7. One space shall be provided for
each dwelling unit designated for individuals with physical disabilities.
Parking for individuals with physical disabilities shall be provided for all
other projects on the basis of total parking provided on site as shown in table
3-9, "Required Number Of Parking Spaces For People With Physical Disabilities",
of this section.
      TABLE 3-9
      REQUIRED NUMBER OF PARKING SPACES
      FOR PEOPLE WITH PHYSICAL DISABILITIES
Number Of Required Required Disabled
Parking Spaces     Parking Spaces
Number Of Required Required Disabled
Parking Spaces     Parking Spaces
      1 - 25 1
      26 - 502
      51 - 753
      76 - 104
      101 - 150
      151 - 260
      201 - 370
      301 - 480
      401 - 590
      Over 50   Add 1 space per each additional 200 spaces
 
   B.   Disabled Parking Lot Dimensions: Table 3-10, "Disabled Parking Space
Dimensions", of this section identifies the dimensions for disabled parking
areas.
   C.   Access Aisles: One in every eight (8) required accessible spaces, but
not less than one, shall be served by an access aisle ninety six inches (96")
wide minimum and shall be designed as "Van Accessible". See table 3-10 of this
section for van accessible spaces parking dimensions.
      TABLE 3-10
      DISABLED PARKING SPACE DIMENSIONS
 
Disabled                   Parking Area         Loading Area/       Total Depth
Parking Space                                   Access Aisle
Each parking space         9'                   5'                  14'   19'
2 adjoining parking spaces 9' for each space (2 5' (shared)         23'   19'
                           spaces)
Van accessible spaces      9'                   8' (passenger side) 17'   19'
 
(Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.33.060: BICYCLE PARKING:
Bicycle racks may be required for all commercial, industrial, public, and
semipublic projects. Bicycle parking would be in addition to automobile parking
spaces pursuant to
chapter 9.41, "Trip Reduction Requirements", of this article 3. (Ord. 254, 12-
16-2014)
9.33.070: PARKING AREA DESIGN STANDARDS:
   A.   Parking Space Dimensions: Each off street parking stall shall consist
of minimum dimensions identified in table 3-11, "Parking Spaces Dimensions", of
this section, including standard spaces and compact spaces.
      TABLE 3-11
      PARKING SPACES DIMENSIONS
 
Parking Space    Width    Depth  Number Of Required    Other Requirements
                                 Spaces
Standard parking 9 ft.    19 ft. See tables 3-4 to 3-  n/a
space                            9 of this chapter
                                 In parking lots which
                                 exceed 10 spaces'     All compact spaces
                                 capacity and serve    shall be clearly
Compact space    71/2 ft. 15 ft. nonresidential uses,  marked and be posted
                                 25% of the required   with signs stating
                                 spaces may be         "Compact Cars Only"
                                 allocated for compact
                                 parking
 
   B.   Wheel Stops: Any parking adjacent to any building or structure, wall,
or fence shall have wheel stops not less than six inches (6") in height and a
distance not less than three feet (3') from said building or structure, wall,
or fence.
   C.   Striping: Individual parking stalls shall be clearly striped and
permanently maintained with double or hairpin lines on the surface of the
parking facility, with the two (2) lines being located an equal nine inches
(9") on either side of the stall sidelines.
   D.   Minimum Aisle Widths:
      1.   One-Way Traffic: One-way access drives leading to aisles within a
parking area shall be a minimum width of twelve feet (12'), and within the
aisles as shown in table 3-12, "One-Way Traffic Standards", of this section.
      TABLE 3-12
      ONE-WAY TRAFFIC STANDARDS
 
Parking Stall Angle Minimum Aisle
(Degrees)           (Feet)
Parallel            12
1 to 45             14
46 to 60            17
61 to 90            26
 
      2.   Two-Way Traffic: The aisles and the two-way access drives leading to
aisles within a parking area shall be a minimum width of twenty six feet (26').
      3.   Fire Department Requirements: Drive aisle widths shall comply with
all fire department requirements, which may result in modifications to the
standards listed in table 3-12 of this section.
   E.   Paving: All off street parking and loading areas for commercial and
industrial development and outdoor vehicle sales areas, including driveways,
aisles, turning and maneuvering areas and parking spaces shall be paved with
not less than two and one- half inches (21/2") of asphalt concrete or an
equivalent surfacing and shall be graded and drained so as to dispose of all
surface water, and shall be maintained in good repair.
   F.   Lighting/Security: All parking areas shall be well lit with sufficient
lighting to illuminate all areas for security and safety and shall comply with
the provisions of title 8,
 chapter 8.70, "Outdoor Lighting", of this code.
   G.   Buffering: All street frontage parking shall have a three foot (3')
high wall, solid hedge or landscape berm or a combination thereof or an
alternate buffer may be used subject to approval of the director, to buffer off
street parking, loading areas, and outdoor sales display areas. The buffer
shall be measured from the grade of the parking, loading, outdoor sales area
and in the case of hedges, shall be situated at the rear of the landscape
setback. This subsection shall not apply to single-family residence or a two-
unit duplex.
   H.   Landscaping Required For More Than Twenty Spaces: Where more than
twenty (20) parking spaces are required in a commercial, office, or multi-
family zone, the parking area shall be landscaped a minimum five percent (5%)
of the net off street parking area.
   I.   Shade Trees: Drought tolerant, desert compatible shade trees and other
landscape material shall be included in the parking lot design in order to
reduce the visual effects of large asphalt areas and to assist in improving the
appearance of the property from street frontage.
   J.   Maintenance: Parking area shall be maintained at all times in a clean,
neat, and orderly condition.
   K.   Accessibility: All spaces in a parking facility, except single-family
and multi-family dwellings with up to two (2) dwellings, shall be accessible
and all circulation shall be internal without reentering a public right of way
unless it is determined by the director to be physically impossible to provide
for such access. However, an alley may be used as maneuvering space for access
to off street parking. Off street parking shall generally be located so as to
be more convenient and accessible than on street parking with respect to
entrances of buildings and pedestrian circulation on the site served.
   L.   Nonresidential Abutting Residential: Nonresidential parking, loading,
or sales areas which abut residential land use districts, shall be separated by
a solid fence or wall six feet (6') in height, measured from finish grade of
parking lot. However, such fence or wall shall be reduced to a maximum four
feet (4') in height within the required front or street side yard. Where no
front or street side yard is required, such wall or fencing shall be four feet
(4') high within ten feet (10') of the right of way.
   M.   Driveways: In single-family residential land use districts where the
parcel abuts a paved street or road, the driveway shall be surfaced with a
minimum of two inches (2") of road mixed surfacing, except for single-family
residential uses on lots of eighteen thousand (18,000) square feet or larger,
in which case the driveway shall be dustproof with materials which may include
slag, gravel, or similar materials. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.33.080: LOCATION AND DESIGN OF OFF STREET LOADING SPACES:
   A.   Each loading space shall not be less than ten feet (10') in width,
twenty feet (20') in length.
   B.   Required loading spaces shall not be within a building, but shall be on
the site of the use served or on an adjoining site. On a site adjoining an
alley, a required loading space shall be accessible from the alley unless an
alternative access is approved by the director. A required loading space shall
be accessible without backing a truck across property lines unless the director
determines that provision of turnaround space is feasible and approves
alternative access. An occupied loading space shall not prevent access to a
required off street parking space. A loading area shall not be located in a
required landscape setback.
   C.   Except in the industrial district, a loading facility which serves a
project(s) in excess of fifty thousand (50,000) square feet that is visible
from any public rights of way shall be screened from view. (Ord. 254, 12-16-
2014)
9.33.090: PARKING AREA PLAN REQUIRED:
Prior to the construction of an off street parking area for a nonresidential
use or a multi-family dwelling with four (4) or more units, a plan shall be
submitted to the planning division for the purpose of indicating compliance
with the provisions of this chapter. This plan shall include:
   A.   The location and placement of required landscaped areas, including a
computation of the required area;
   B.   A planting plan including a list of plants by name and size keyed to
their location on the parking area;
   C.   Location and description of fencing and architectural screen walls;
   D.   Layout and method of irrigation of landscaped areas;
   E.   Location and placement of parking stalls, including bumpers, striping
and circulation, and directional signs, and all dimensions to permit comparison
with approved parking standards;
   F.   Placement and illumination data of parking area lights, including
photometric study; and
   G.   Method of drainage. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.33.100: STANDARDS FOR TRUCK PARKING:
Excluding pickup trucks and sport utility vehicles, it shall be unlawful for
any commercial vehicle having an unladen vehicle weight (as defined under the
California Vehicle Code) of ten thousand (10,000) pounds or more to be parked
in a residential land use district except for tow trucks which comply with the
following requirements:
   A.   Tow Truck Operator: A tow truck operator may apply for a commercial
vehicle parking permit subject to the following standards:
      1.   The tow truck must be registered to a permanent tow truck business
located within a commercial or industrial land use district.
      2.   The tow truck shall be used for emergency calls only between the
hours of five o'clock (5:00) P.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and on weekends
and legal holidays. No parking shall occur at the residence between eight
o'clock (8:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) P.M., except on weekends and legal
holidays.
      3.   Trucks shall not be parked within the required front yard setback of
the district in which it is located and must be parked a minimum of fifteen
feet (15') from any side or rear property line. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.33.110: PARKING DESIGN GUIDELINES:
   A.   Purpose: The following design guidelines are intended as reference to
assist the designer in understanding the town's goals and objectives for
parking and loading design. These guidelines complement the mandatory parking
and loading regulations contained in this chapter by providing good examples of
potential design solutions and by providing design interpretations of various
regulations.
The design guidelines are general and may be interpreted with some flexibility
in their application to specific projects. The guidelines will be utilized to
encourage the highest level of design quality while at the same time providing
the flexibility necessary to encourage creativity on the part of project
designers.
   B.   General Design Principles: A well designed parking facility depends on
a variety of desirable elements, including:
      1.   Ease and convenience to all users;
      2.   The best utilization of available space;
      3.   Ease of access;
      4.   Good internal circulation;
      5.   Easy parking maneuvers;
      6.   Public transit;
      7.   Safety; and
      8.   Aesthetics.
   C.   Access:
      1.   Locate driveways with left turn movements with special attention to
spacing driveways relative to the nearest point of street traffic control,
especially a signal. Left turn movements are relatively hazardous.
      2.   Locate driveways with right turn entry movements with special
attention to their location relative to street traffic control. Such movements
which may impede through traffic shall be minimized.
      3.   Driveway design should be directly related to the layout of the
parking area, amount of stacking distance (e.g., drive-in service facilities),
type of loading facility, circulation pattern, building placement, and relation
to the design of the public street, traffic control devices, traffic volumes
and placement of other driveways.
      4.   Driveway "throat" distance should be sufficient to minimize any
effect on traffic movements on adjacent streets.
      5.   Avoid locating entry and exit points where vehicles entering or
leaving the site would conflict with large numbers of pedestrians.
      6.   The access points should be limited to minimize the number of
potential conflict points with public streets.
      7.   Driveway distance should be sufficient to prevent vehicles from
backing into the public street.
      8.   Access roads and aisles for parking should be kept at the maximum
distance possible from residential units.
   D.   Parking Lot Layout:
      1.   When possible, segregate employee parking from customer parking.
Employees will generally walk farther from parking to their work destinations
than shoppers will walk from parking to stores.
      2.   Larger parking lots should be broken into smaller modules to reduce
the size and visual impact of expansive parking areas or should be designed
with additional shade trees/landscaping and other material to assist in
minimizing the visual effect of large parking facilities.
      3.   Minimize the number of continuous parking spaces without
interruption.
      4.   Consolidated parking lots for multiple uses are encouraged where
practical.
      5.   Parking should be designed so that backing and turning movements
associated with parking layout will not obstruct or conflict with traffic,
either on or off site.
      6.   Parking lots shall be designed with adequate room to allow vehicles
to turn around within the parking lot and enter an adjoining street in a
forward direction.
      7.   Parking shall be provided with curbs, wheel stops or other barriers
to prevent vehicles from extending beyond the perimeter of the parking lot and
to prevent vehicles from contacting a wall, a fence or a sidewalk.
      8.   Access aisles should be designed to allow the user to walk directly
toward, rather than parallel to, the building front.
      9.   End islands should be used to enhance the functional and aesthetic
qualities of a parking lot in the following ways:
         a.   Delineating on site circulation roadways;
         b.   Ensuring adequate sight distance at the intersections of the
parking aisles and driveways;
         c.   Defining the area and geometry of intersections of parking aisles
and driveways;
         d.   Protecting the vehicles at the end of a parking bay; and
         e.   Providing aesthetic enhancement of the site design.
   E.   Parking Stalls:
      1.   In apartment parking lots, parking stalls should be located to
protect the privacy of residents by providing buffers, e.g., fences, walls or
landscaping, from the effects of engine noise, automobile headlights and
vehicle emissions.
      2.   Apartment parking stalls should generally be located no farther than
one hundred fifty feet (150') from the entrance to each dwelling unit to avoid
cars from parking on the street and to provide convenient access for unit
residents.
      3.   Whenever possible all parking stalls should be aligned with the same
orientation. Having one section at right angles to another tends to create
confusion and can produce accident prone intersections.
   F.   Loading:
      1.   Loading and unloading facilities should be located on site and not
within public right of way. There shall be no backing of vehicles onto the
public right of way from loading areas.
      2.   Loading areas should be screened from entrances and other highly
visible areas of the site. Adequate turnaround and backing areas shall be
provided without disruption of circulation or parking facilities.
   G.   Lighting:
      1.   All parking lot and loading facility lighting shall be shielded in
accordance with title 8,
chapter 8.70, "Outdoor Lighting", of this code so that substantially all the
directly emitted light falls within the property line.
      2.   No illumination is to be designed or used which produces direct, or
reflected light that interferes with the safe movement of motor vehicles on
public streets including:
         a.   Any light fixture not designed for street illumination that
produces light that could interfere with the operation of a motor vehicle;
         b.   Any light that may be confused with or construed as a traffic
control device; or
         c.   Any animated, flashing, or changing intensity lights, except for
temporary holiday displays.
   H.   Pedestrian:
      1.   A system of interior pedestrian paths or sidewalks integrated with
the parking lot should link the different parts of the development with one
another and with transit stops.
      2.   Provide clearly discernible pedestrian walkways where there is
adequate vehicular sight distance. The use of textured or colored pavement and
signage should be used.
   I.   Transit:
      1.   Large scale commercial developments and employment centers should
provide transit access as near as possible to the main entrance to the
facility.
      2.   Transit stops should be designed as an integrated component of the
site and feature pedestrian amenities and shelter. Secured transit information
centers or kiosks with bus routes and schedule information should be provided
if feasible.
      3.   Nonresidential development should orient the front or main entrance
to the facility toward major streets with transit facilities.
      4.   Where parking areas separate the front or main entrance of the
building from the transit facility, a separate pedestrian walkway or sidewalk
may be required.
   J.   Bicycles:
      1.   Bicycle parking facilities should be located outside of a vehicular
or pedestrian way and be protected and separated from motor vehicle traffic and
parking lots by either a five foot (5') separation distance or a curb or other
physical barrier.
      2.   Bicycle parking facilities should be made out of a durable and
strong material, be permanently anchored to the ground and be designed so as to
allow bikes to be locked to it.
      3.   Bicycle parking facilities should be sufficiently illuminated.
   K.   Landscaping Requirements For Parking Areas:
      1.   Precast and other masonry planters may be used to provide for some
buffering for existing parking areas. Landscaping should be used to enhance the
safety of parking lots by guiding the circulation of cars and people and by
ensuring that the driver's vision is unobstructed.
      2.   Use of landscaping to control access to parking lots, to make
traffic diverters prominent and to direct the flow of traffic within the lot.
      3.   Parking lots should be screened from surrounding public streets,
sidewalks, parks and other public properties. Berms, walls, fences, plants,
planters or similar means should be used to create the parking lot screen.
      4.   Whenever structures such as walls or fences are used to create a
screen, plants should be located on the sides of the structure which can be
seen from surrounding streets, sidewalks, parks and other public properties.
      5.   All areas within the perimeter of parking lots not used for parking,
loading, circulation, transit or pedestrian facilities should be landscaped to
minimize the feeling of expansive hard surfaced areas and to improve the
parking lot appearance. Landscape design shall provide for adequate plant
aeration and traffic safety.
      6.   Plant materials should be placed on islands, entry drives,
pedestrian walls and along end islands which separate parking from drive
aisles. Xeriscape landscaping shall be used.
      7.   Two feet (2') at the end of landscape islands should be left
unplanted. The use of cobbles, patterned concrete, or brick pavers should be
considered in these end areas.
      8.   Protect the root zones of trees at maturity by retaining a planted
area encompassing the drip line. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
CHAPTER 9.34
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
SECTION:
9.34.010: Purpose
9.34.020: Applicability
9.34.030: Modification Of Standards
9.34.040: Air Quality
9.34.050: Electrical Disturbances
9.34.060: Fire Hazards
9.34.070: Heat
9.34.080: Noise
9.34.090: Vibration
9.34.100: Waste Disposal
9.34.110: Hazardous Materials
9.34.010: PURPOSE:
This chapter establishes performance standards to guard against the use of any
property or structure in any zone in any manner which would create any
dangerous, injurious, noxious, or otherwise objectionable fire, explosive, or
other hazards; noise or vibration; smoke, dust, odor or other form of air
pollution; heat, cold, dampness; electrical or other substance, condition or
element in such a manner that adversely affects the health and safety of the
public and the surrounding area or adjoining premises. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.34.020: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   These performance standards shall apply to all uses in all zones,
except for legal nonconforming uses which, based on a written opinion of the
town attorney, have an established right not to comply with the provisions of
this chapter.
   B.   Compliance may be waived by the commission if a condition created under
prior ordinances physically precludes the reasonable application of the
standards. Additional categorical exemptions from compliance with the
performance standards are as follows:
      1.   Temporary Activity: Festivals and other special events with approved
temporary use permits or other required permits, where such activities
otherwise comply with other applicable provisions of this development code.
      2.   Emergency Activities: Any emergency activity on the part of the town
or a private party.
      3.   Construction Activity: Temporary construction activity is exempted
except where such activity is explicitly regulated by other regulations of this
code. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.34.030: MODIFICATION OF STANDARDS:
   A.   Modification By Specific Reference: The provisions of this chapter
shall prevail should they conflict with the provisions of a land use zoning
district or specific plan, unless the land use zoning district or plan standard
specifically overrides or modifies the provisions of this chapter by specific
reference.
   B.   Modification By Establishment Of Overlay Or Approval Of Planned
Development, Specific Plan Or Variance: An overlay, approved planned
development, specific plan or approved variance may modify the provisions of
this chapter. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.34.040: AIR QUALITY:
   A.   Equipment Permit And Inspection Requirements: Required permits shall be
obtained from the Mojave Desert air quality management district. Before the
equipment may be constructed, plans and specifications shall be submitted to
the MDAQMD for approval.
   B.   Permits From Air Quality Management Districts: Permits shall be
obtained from the Mojave Desert air quality management district. If requested
by the director, uses, activities, or processes that require air quality
management district approval to operate shall file a copy of the permit with
the department within thirty (30) days of its approval.
   C.   Diesel Exhaust Emissions Control Measures: The following emissions
control measures shall apply to all discretionary land use projects approved by
the town on or after January 15, 2009:
      1.   On Road Diesel Vehicles: On road diesel vehicles are regulated by
the state of California air resources board.
      2.   Off Road Diesel Vehicle/Equipment Operations: All business
establishments and contractors that use off road diesel vehicle/equipment as
part of their normal business operations shall adhere to the following measures
during their operations in order to reduce diesel particulate matter emissions
from diesel fueled engines:
         a.   Off road vehicles/equipment shall not be left idling on site for
periods in excess of five (5) minutes. The idling limit does not apply to:
            (1)   Idling when queuing;
            (2)   Idling to verify that the vehicle is in safe operating
condition;
            (3)   Idling for testing, servicing, repairing or diagnostic
purposes;
            (4)   Idling necessary to accomplish work for which the vehicle was
designed (such as operating a crane); and
            (5)   Idling required to bring the machine system to operating
temperature.
         b.   Use reformulated ultra low sulfur diesel fuel in equipment and
use equipment certified by the U.S. environmental protection agency (EPA) or
that predates EPA regulations.
         c.   Maintain engines in good working order to reduce emissions.
         d.   Signs shall be posted requiring vehicle drivers to turn off
engines when parked.
         e.   Any requirements or standards subsequently adopted by the Mojave
Desert air quality management district or the California air resources board.
         f.   Provide temporary traffic control during all phases of
construction.
         g.   On site electrical power connections shall be provided for
electric construction tools to eliminate the need for diesel powered electric
generators, where feasible.
         h.   Maintain construction equipment engines in good working order to
reduce emissions. The developer shall have each contractor certify that all
construction equipment is properly serviced and maintained in good operating
condition.
         i.   Contractors shall use ultra low sulfur diesel fuel for stationary
construction equipment as required by air quality management district (AQMD)
rules 431.1 and 431.2 to reduce the release of undesirable emissions.
         j.   Substitute electric and gasoline powered equipment for diesel
powered equipment, where feasible.
      3.   Project Design: Distribution centers, warehouses, truck stops and
other facilities with loading docks where diesel trucks may reside overnight or
for periods in excess of three (3) hours shall be designed to enable any
vehicle using these facilities to utilize on site electrical connections to
power the heating and air conditioning of the cabs of such trucks, and any
refrigeration unit(s) of any trailer being pulled by the trucks, instead of
operating the diesel engines and diesel refrigeration units of such trucks and
trailers for these purposes. This requirement shall also apply to recreational
vehicle parks (as defined in subsection
9.08.060B of this title) and other development projects where diesel engines
may reasonably be expected to operate on other than an occasional basis. (Ord.
254, 12-16-2014)
9.34.050: ELECTRICAL DISTURBANCES:
No use shall be permitted where such use results in electric or electromagnetic
interference that adversely affects the operation of any equipment other than
that belonging to the creator of such interference, or that does not conform to
the regulations of the federal communications commission. (Ord. 254, 12-16-
2014)
9.34.060: FIRE HAZARDS:
This section establishes standards for storage of solid materials susceptible
to fire hazards and flammable liquids and gases where allowed in compliance
with article 2, "Zoning Districts And Development Standards", of this title.
   A.   Combustible Solids: Land uses that include the storage of solid
materials susceptible to fire hazards shall be subject to the following storage
standards in the indicated land use zoning districts:
      1.   Industrial (I) zoning district:
         a.   Inside Storage: A structure utilized for the storage,
manufacture, or use of flammable solid materials shall be located no less than
forty feet (40') from any lot line and any other on site structures or shall
adhere to standards specified in subsection A2 of this section.
         b.   Outdoor Storage: Outdoor storage of flammable solid materials
shall be no less than fifty feet (50') from any lot line and any other on site
structures.
      2.   All other manufacturing or industrial uses legally established
within any other land use zoning district. The storage, manufacture, or use of
highly flammable solid materials shall take place in enclosed spaces having
fire resistance of no less than two (2) hours and protected with an automatic
fire extinguishing system and shall comply with San Bernardino County fire
department requirements.
   B.   Flammable Liquids And Gases: Land uses that involve the storage of
flammable liquids and gases shall be subject to the following standards when
established within the land use zoning districts indicated:
      1.   Setbacks: Setback requirements for flammable liquids and gases shall
be in accordance with fire department requirements.
      2.   Storage Capacity: The total storage capacity of flammable liquids
and gases on a parcel shall not exceed the quantities indicated in table 3-13,
"Storage Standards For Flammable Liquids And Gases", of this section.
      TABLE 3-13
      STORAGE STANDARDS FOR FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS AND GASES
Stored Substance Zoning District Maximum Capacity
Stored Substance           Zoning District            Maximum Capacity
                           Industrial district        120,000 gallons
                           All other manufacturing or
Liquids                    industrial uses legally    60,000 gallons
                           established within any
                           other zoning district
                           All manufacturing or
                           industrial uses legally    Per fire department
                           established within zoning  requirements
                           district
Liquid petroleum gas       All commercial uses        15,000 gallons per tank
                           legally established within 20,000 gallons' maximum
                           zoning district            aggregate total
                           All agricultural uses      15,000 gallons per tank
                           legally established within aggregate total
                           zoning district
                                                      300,000 standard cubic
                           Industrial district        feet above ground
                                                      600,000 standard cubic
Gases other than liquefied                            feet below ground
petroleum gas              All other manufacturing or 150,000 standard cubic
                           industrial uses legally    feet above ground
                           established within any     300,000 standard cubic
                           other zoning district      feet below ground
 
   C.   Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG):
      1.   General Requirements:
         a.   Agricultural, Commercial, Industrial, Or Manufacturing Uses And
Zoning Districts: Liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) storage and distribution
facilities for agricultural, commercial, industrial, or manufacturing uses
shall be allowed subject to a conditional use permit in compliance with article
2, "Zoning Districts And Development Standards", of this title. The location,
installation, operation, and maintenance of LPG storage and distribution
facilities shall be subject to:
            (1)   The standards in this subsection.
            (2)   The conditions, requirements, and standards imposed by the
review authority in compliance with this chapter.
         b.   Residential Uses And Zoning Districts: Standards for residential
uses and residential land use zoning districts for LPG storage shall be in
accordance with fire department requirements.
         c.   Conflict Between Zoning District And Use Permit Requirements: In
the event of a conflict between the provisions of this subsection C and the
provisions of a land use zoning district, including the requirement for a
conditional use permit, the provisions of this subsection shall prevail and
control.
      2.   Fire Protection Requirements For All Parcels:
         a.   Setbacks for LPG storage and distribution facilities from
structures and property lines shall be those specified by fire department
requirements.
         b.   LPG storage tanks shall be centrally located on the parcel to the
satisfaction of the fire department.
      3.   Additional Fire Protection Requirements For Specific Types Of
Parcels: For parcels that have no more than one occupied structure less than
five thousand (5,000) square feet in size and where the water system provides
substandard flows per International Standards Organization (ISO) standards for
structure protection, additional fire protection requirements shall be as
follows:
      TABLE 3-14
      ADDITIONAL FIRE PROTECTION
 
Parcel Size        LPG Storage                  Fire Flow
                   Tank Standards
10.1 acres or more n/a                          Fire flow shall be calculated
                   A 1 hour approved protective for exposures only in
5.1 to 10 acres    coating shall be applied to  compliance with the San
                   the LPG storage tank         Bernardino County code title 2,
                   A 2 hour approved protective division 3 (fire protection and
2.5 to 5 acres     coating shall be applied to  explosives and hazardous
                   the LPG storage tank         materials)
 
      4.   Additional Fire Protection Requirements For Any Parcel With Adequate
Fire Flow Available Per ISO Standards:
         a.   Fire Hydrants: Fire hydrant(s) shall serve the parcel in
compliance with fire department requirements.
         b.   Protection: Fire flow shall provide for exposure protection (ISO
calculation) and LPG storage tank protection/suppression.
            (1)   Sprinklers shall use calculations, as adopted by fire
department requirements.
            (2)   Hose lines shall use the formula:   GPM = 5 times the square
root of the tank capacity.
         c.   Additional Protection:
            (1)   Where the fire chief determines that water can be applied to
the tank or exposures by the fire department in required amounts in eight (8)
minutes or less, no additional protection shall be required.
            (2)   Where the fire chief determines that water cannot be applied
to the tank or exposures by the fire department in required amounts in eight
(8) minutes or less, one of the following protection measures shall be
required:
               (A)   One hour approved protective coating shall be applied to
the LPG storage tank; or
               (B)   A fixed spray water system shall be installed as approved
by the fire department.
      5.   Additional Fire Protection Requirements For Any Parcel Not Included
In Either Subsections C3 Or C4 Of This Section:
         a.   Either a one hour or more protective coating shall be applied to
the LPG storage tank, as required by the fire department, or a fixed spray
water system shall be installed instead of coating the tank.
         b.   Fire flow shall be calculated for exposure only, in compliance
with fire department requirements. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.34.070: HEAT:
Land uses in industrial districts shall not emit heat that would cause a
temperature increase on any adjacent property in excess of ten degrees
Fahrenheit (10°F), whether the change is in the air, on the ground, or in a
structure. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.34.080: NOISE:
This section establishes standards concerning acceptable noise levels for both
noise sensitive land uses and for noise generating land uses.
   A.   Noise Measurement: Noise shall be measured:
      1.   At the property line of the nearest site that is occupied by, and/or
zoned or designated to allow the development of noise sensitive land uses;
      2.   With a sound level meter that meets the standards of the American
National Standards Institute (ANSI section SI4 1979, type 1 or type 2);
      3.   Using the "A" weighted sound pressure level scale in decibels (ref.
pressure = 20 micro newtons per meter squared). The unit of measure shall be
designated as dB(A).
   B.   Noise Impacted Areas: Areas within the town shall be designated as
noise impacted if exposed to existing or projected future exterior noise levels
from mobile or stationary sources exceeding the standards listed in subsections
C1, "Noise Standards For Stationary Noise Sources", and C3, "Noise Standards
For Adjacent Mobile Noise Sources", of this section. New development of
residential or other noise sensitive land uses shall not be allowed in noise
impacted areas unless effective mitigation measures are incorporated into the
project design to reduce noise levels to these standards. Noise sensitive land
uses shall include residential uses, schools, hospitals, nursing homes,
religious institutions, libraries, and similar uses.
   C.   Noise Standards: The following legend is for use with all tables in
this section:
 
        Equivalent energy level. The sound level corresponding to a steady
Leq   = state sound level containing the same total energy as a time varying
        signal over a given sample period, typically 1, 8 or 24 hours.
        A-weighted sound pressure level. The sound pressure level, in decibels,
        as measured on a sound level meter using the A-weighting filter
dB(A) = network. The A-weighting filter deemphasizes the very low and very high
        frequency components of the sound, placing greater emphasis on those
        frequencies within the sensitivity range of the human ear.
        Day-night noise level. The average equivalent A-weighted sound level
        during a 24 hour day obtained by adding 10 decibels to the hourly noise
Ldn   = levels measured during the night (from 10:00 P.M. to 7:00 A.M.). In
        this way Ldn takes into account the lower tolerance of people for noise
        during nighttime periods.
        Community noise equivalent level. The average equivalent A-weighted
        sound level during a 24 hour day, obtained after addition of
CNEL  = approximately 5 decibels to sound levels in the evening from 7:00 P.M.
        to 10:00 A.M. and 10 decibels to sound levels in the night before 7:00
        A.M. and after 10:00 P.M.
 
      1.   Noise Standards For Stationary Noise Sources: Table 3-15, "Noise
Standards For Stationary Noise Sources", of this section describes the noise
standard for emanations from a stationary noise source, as it affects adjacent
properties:
      TABLE 3-15
      NOISE STANDARDS FOR STATIONARY NOISE SOURCES
 
Affected Land Uses    7:00 A.M. To   10:00 P.M. To
                      10:00 P.M. Leq 7:00 A.M. Leq
Residential           55 dB(A)       45 dB(A)
Professional services 55 dB(A)       55 dB(A)
Other commercial      60 dB(A)       60 dB(A)
Industrial            70 dB(A)       70 dB(A)
 
      2.   Noise Limit Categories: No person shall operate or cause to be
operated a source of sound at a location or allow the creation of noise on
property owned, leased, occupied, or otherwise controlled by the person, which
causes the noise level, when measured on another property, either incorporated
or unincorporated, to exceed any one of the following:
         a.   The noise standard for the receiving land use as specified in
subsection B, "Noise Impacted Areas", of this section, for a cumulative period
of more than thirty (30) minutes in any hour.
         b.   The noise standard plus five (5) dB(A) for a cumulative period of
more than fifteen (15) minutes in any hour.
         c.   The noise standard plus ten (10) dB(A) for a cumulative period of
more than five (5) minutes in any hour.
         d.   The noise standard plus fifteen (15) dB(A) for a cumulative
period of more than one minute in any hour.
         e.   The noise standard plus twenty (20) dB(A) for any period of time.
      3.   Noise Standards For Adjacent Mobile Noise Sources: Noise from mobile
sources may affect adjacent properties adversely. When it does, the noise shall
be mitigated for any new development to a level that shall not exceed the
standards described in table 3-16, "Noise Standards For Adjacent Mobile Noise
Sources", of this section.
      TABLE 3-16
      NOISE STANDARDS FOR ADJACENT MOBILE NOISE SOURCES
                Ldn (Or CNEL)
Categories Uses dB(A)
                Interior1 Exterior2,3
                                                          Ldn (Or CNEL)
Categories           Uses                                 dB(A)
                                                          Interior1 Exterior2,3
Residential          Single-family, multi-family, duplex, 45        60
                     mobilehomes
Commercial           Amphitheater, concert hall,          45        n/a
                     auditorium, movie theater
                    Commercial retail, bank, restaurant  50        n/a
                    Hotel, motel, transient housing      45        60
                    Office building, research and        45        65
                     development, professional offices
                     Hospital, nursing home, school
Institutional/public classroom, religious institution,    45        65
                     library
Open space           Park                                 n/a       65
 
   Notes:
       1.    The indoor environment shall exclude bathrooms, kitchens, toilets,
closets and corridors.
       2.    The outdoor environment shall be limited to:
         Hospital/office building patios
         Hotel and motel recreation areas
         Mobilehome parks
         Multi-family private patios or balconies
         Park picnic areas
         Private yard of single-family dwellings
         School playgrounds
       3.    An exterior noise level of up to 65 dB(A) (or CNEL) shall be
allowed provided exterior noise levels have been substantially mitigated
through a reasonable application of the best available noise reduction
technology, and interior noise exposure does not exceed 45 dB(A) (or CNEL) with
windows and doors closed. Requiring that windows and doors remain closed to
achieve an acceptable interior noise level shall necessitate the use of air
conditioning or mechanical ventilation.
   D.   Increases In Allowable Noise Levels: If the measured ambient level
exceeds any of the first four (4) noise limit categories in subsection C2 of
this section, the allowable noise exposure standard shall be increased to
reflect the ambient noise level. If the ambient noise level exceeds the fifth
noise limit category in subsection C2 of this section, the maximum allowable
noise level under this category shall be increased to reflect the maximum
ambient noise level.
   E.   Reductions In Allowable Noise Levels: If the alleged offense consists
entirely of impact noise or simple tone noise, each of the noise levels in
table 3-15, "Noise Standards For Stationary Noise Sources", of this section
shall be reduced by five (5) dB(A).
   F.   Exempt Noise: The following sources of noise shall be exempt from the
regulations of this section:
      1.   Motor vehicles not under the control of the commercial or industrial
use.
      2.   Emergency equipment, vehicles, and devices.
      3.   Temporary construction, maintenance, repair, or demolition
activities between seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.,
except Sundays and federal holidays.
   G.   Noise Standards For Other Structures: All other structures shall be
sound attenuated against the combined input of all present and projected
exterior noise to not exceed the criteria shown in table 3-17, "Noise Standards
For Other Structures", of this section.
      TABLE 3-17
      NOISE STANDARDS FOR OTHER STRUCTURES
 
Typical Uses                                      12 Hour Equivalent Sound
                                                  Level (Interior) In dB(A) Ldn
Educational, institutions, libraries, meeting     451
facilities, and similar
General office, reception, and similar            501
Retail stores, restaurants, and similar           551
Other areas for manufacturing, assembly, testing, 651
warehousing, and similar
 
   Note:
      1.    In addition, the average of the maximum levels on the loudest of
intrusive sounds occurring during a 24 hour period shall not exceed 65 dB(A)
interior.
(Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.34.090: VIBRATION:
   A.   Vibration Standard: No ground vibration shall be allowed that can be
felt without the aid of instruments at or beyond the lot line, nor shall any
vibration be allowed which produces a particle velocity greater than or equal
to 0.2 inch per second measured at or beyond the lot line.
   B.   Vibration Measurement: Vibration velocity shall be measured with a
seismograph or other instrument capable of measuring and recording displacement
and frequency, particle velocity, or acceleration. Readings shall be made at
points of maximum vibration along any lot line next to a parcel within a
residential, commercial and industrial land use zoning district.
   C.   Exempt Vibrations: The following sources of vibration shall be exempt
from the regulations of this section:
      Motor vehicles not under the control of the subject use.
      Temporary construction maintenance or demolition activities between seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.34.100: WASTE DISPOSAL:
   A.   Liquid Waste Disposal And Runoff Control: No liquids of any kind shall
be discharged into a public or private sewage or drainage system, watercourse,
body of water, or into the ground, except in compliance with applicable
regulations of this code and related federal regulations. (Ord. 254, 12-16-
2014)
9.34.110: HAZARDOUS MATERIALS:
   A.   Regulated By State Of California And The U.S. EPA: The use, handling,
storage, and transportation of hazardous and extremely hazardous materials
shall comply with the provisions of the California hazardous materials
regulations (California administrative code, title 22, division 4). The U.S.
environmental protection agency and the California department of health
services identify hazardous materials and prescribe handling, use, and disposal
practices. The use, storage, manufacture, and disposal of hazardous materials
shall be regulated and monitored according to the standards established by
these agencies and any delegated government agencies.
   B.   Combustibles And Explosives:
      1.   The use, handling, storage, and transportation of combustibles and
explosives shall comply with the provisions of title 19 of the California code
of regulations chapter 10 (explosives).
      2.   No gasoline or other inflammables or explosives shall be stored
unless the location, plans, and construction conform to the laws and
regulations of the state of California and have the approval of the town.
   C.   Maintenance Of Equipment:
      1.   Objects such as vehicle motor parts containing grease, oil or other
hazardous substances, and unsealed receptacles containing hazardous materials,
shall not be stored in areas susceptible to runoff.
      2.   Any machine which is to be repaired or maintained in an uncovered
outdoor area shall be placed on a pad of absorbent material to contain leaks,
spills or small discharges.
      3.   Machinery and equipment, including motor vehicles, which are leaking
significant amounts of oil or fluid must be repaired. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
CHAPTER 9.35
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE STANDARDS
SECTION:
9.35.010: Purpose
9.35.020: Applicability
9.35.030: Relationship To Other Laws
9.35.040: General Maintenance Provisions
9.35.050: Residential Structure Maintenance
9.35.060: Fencing And Walls
9.35.070: Visible Storage Or Maintenance
9.35.080: Litter And Refuse
9.35.090: Parking Areas And Driveways
9.35.100: Landscaping And Vegetation
9.35.110: Maintenance Responsibility
9.35.010: PURPOSE:
This chapter sets forth comprehensive minimum maintenance standards for
residential structures, yards, land, landscaping, facilities, and equipment for
the purpose of protecting the health, safety, and welfare of the public, and
helping to preserve property values. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.35.020: APPLICABILITY:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all private and public
residential property within the town of Yucca Valley. Property maintenance
standards shall apply to all residential development, whether constructed
before or after the effective date of this section. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.35.030: RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER LAWS:
In the event of any inconsistency between this chapter and any other provisions
or other sections of this code, including title 6,
chapter 6.08, "Maintenance Of Abandoned Properties", title 11,
chapters 11.10, "Vehicle Abatement",
11.20 "Graffiti Abatement",
11.60, "Dumping Waste; Nuisance Vehicles", and
11.70, "Litter And Littering", of this code or in the event that this chapter
conflicts with laws of the state or other town ordinances, the higher standard
- the standard that provides for a higher level of property maintenance - shall
prevail, unless otherwise specified. This chapter shall supplement and be an
addition to the other relevant regulatory codes, statutes, and ordinances
enacted by the town of Yucca Valley, state of California, or any other legal
entity or agency having jurisdiction. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.35.040: GENERAL MAINTENANCE PROVISIONS:
   A.   General: All residential properties within the town shall be kept and
maintained in a clean, neat, orderly, operable, and usable condition that is
safe both to occupants and passersby. This requirement applies to structures,
portions of structures, paving, fences, walls, landscaping, water, earth, and
any other structure or natural feature.
   B.   Prohibition On Attractive Nuisances: Any property which can be easily
accessed by children must be kept clear of attractive nuisances that create a
danger for children and other persons, including, but not limited to,
inoperative vehicles, abandoned, neglected, or broken equipment, machinery,
appliances, refrigerators or freezers; construction materials and construction
equipment; and hazardous pools, ponds, and excavations. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.35.050: RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURE MAINTENANCE:
All structures and paved areas shall be kept and maintained in a manner so as
to not detract from the appearance of surrounding properties, and that protects
the health, safety and welfare of the user, occupant, and the general public.
All such structures and paved areas shall be deemed substandard and in
violation of this chapter, as determined by the building official or code
compliance officer, when such structures or paved areas display evidence of
dilapidated conditions including, but not limited to, the following:
   A.   Faulty, sagging, or leaking roof, missing roof tiles, or other visible
roofing materials such that the roof is structurally unsafe or allows
penetration of water to the substructural elements such as sheathing, roofing
felt, rafters or ceiling, or exposes substructural elements to view;
   B.   Substantial areas of deteriorated structure siding materials including,
but not limited to, dry rot, termite infestation, dented or rusting metal
siding, broken or missing pieces of stucco, or other siding materials such that
the building or structure is unsightly;
   C.   Broken or missing windows which constitute a hazard and an invitation
to trespassers or vagrants;
   D.   Inadequate site drainage and/or standing water which causes hazardous
or unsightly conditions, a breeding area for insects, or erosion of structure
foundations or soil;
   E.   Broken, inoperable or abandoned sanitary and plumbing facilities and/or
fixtures;
   F.   Broken or missing foundation;
   G.   Broken, damaged or missing window screens, attic vent screens, or
underfloor vents, rendering these items unusable and causing an attractive
nuisance;
   H.   Structural defects such as warped, bowed or sagging structural members
including, but not limited to, headers, sills, beams, eaves, doorways, door
jambs, and similar structural or architectural elements;
   I.   Damaged woodwork or wall coverings, including, but not limited to,
unpainted surfaces, weathered or peeling paint, damaged brickwork, stonework or
stucco, such that the affected area is in excess of the following:
      1.   Ten percent (10%) of the total exposed material used for trim,
fascia, rafters and rain gutters;
      2.   Five percent (5%) of wall surfaces as measured along any single
plane of the building. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.35.060: FENCING AND WALLS:
All fences and walls shall be kept and maintained in a manner that does not
detract from the appearance of the immediate neighborhood, and that protects
the health, safety, and welfare of the user, occupant, and general public.
Fences and walls shall be deemed substandard and in violation of this chapter
when they display evidence of dilapidation or other conditions, such as any or
all of the following:
   A.   Sagging, broken, rotted, or defective support posts or other structural
members;
   B.   Missing or broken fence boards;
   C.   Damaged or missing blocks from a block wall;
   D.   Substantial areas of deterioration including dry rot, broken or missing
pieces of stucco, holes, or warped or leaning fence or wall areas;
   E.   Chainlink fence material which is damaged or broken;
   F.   Portions of the fence or wall which are substantially defaced with
graffiti;
   G.   Any condition of deterioration or any fault resulting in the fence or
wall being structurally unsound or otherwise hazardous to property owners,
occupants, or passersby;
   H.   Height extensions of walls or fences in violation of this development
code. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.35.070: VISIBLE STORAGE OR MAINTENANCE:
Parking, storage, stockpiling, or maintenance of any of the following items on
private property must be screened from any public right of way and adjoining
properties, except as provided in subsection C of this section. Objects and
activities will be considered "screened" when they are either: a) not visible
from a public right of way, or b) behind a solid six foot (6') high fence or
wall.
   A.   Furniture And Other Equipment: Furniture or other equipment, including,
but not limited to, couches and chairs, household appliances, sinks, heaters,
boilers, tanks, other household equipment, or any parts thereof.
   B.   Materials: Building materials, including, but not limited to, packing
boxes, lumber, dirt piles, wood, landscape materials, or debris.
   C.   Exceptions: The following may be allowed in front yards under the noted
circumstances:
      1.   Waste haulers and recycling containers may be placed for pick up in
accordance with section
9.07.120 of this title.
      2.   Portable on demand storage containers (PODS) used for the temporary
storage of personal property owned or rented by the occupants may be allowed
for a period not to exceed two (2) weeks.
      3.   Building materials, vehicles, equipment, or construction tools may
be placed in yards during construction with a valid building permit.
      4.   Personal property owned or rented by the occupants may be repaired,
washed, cleaned, and serviced, subject to any other relevant regulations,
provided that vehicles are parked in a driveway and that all work is completed
within thirty (30) days.
      5.   Barbecues and furniture that is designed and intended for outdoor
use may remain on a porch or patio. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.35.080: LITTER AND REFUSE:
All yards, landscaped areas, and other areas of private property surrounding
structures shall be kept free of trash, old building materials, junk,
unregistered or inoperative vehicles, broken or discarded furniture, boxes,
salvage materials, shopping carts, and other such material and equipment which,
by its appearance, location or use, makes it incompatible with the principal
use or other predominate principal uses in the immediate neighborhood. (Ord.
254, 12-16-2014)
9.35.090: PARKING AREAS AND DRIVEWAYS:
   A.   All parking areas and driveways shall be kept and maintained so as to
not detract from the appearance of surrounding properties, and to protect the
health, safety and welfare of the user, occupant and general public. Such areas
shall be kept in a neat and clean condition, free of inoperative vehicles,
abandoned items, trash, debris or rubbish, furniture, equipment, play
equipment, or similar materials, and free of potholes, sinkholes, standing
water, cracks, and/or broken areas.
   B.   When any paved area, which includes sidewalks, driveways, and private
roadways, is dilapidated, deteriorated or destroyed to such an extent as to no
longer be effective it shall be deemed substandard and in violation of this
chapter. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.35.100: LANDSCAPING AND VEGETATION:
   A.   All landscaped areas shall be kept and maintained in a manner that does
not detract from the appearance of the surrounding properties, and that
protects the health, safety, and welfare of the user, occupants, and general
public.
   B.   Landscaped areas shall be kept in a neat and clean condition, free of
weeds, debris and dead, diseased or dying vegetation, and broken or defective
decorative elements of the landscaped area.
   C.   Vegetation in landscaped areas shall be mowed, groomed, trimmed,
pruned, and watered as to keep the same in a healthy, growing condition.
Irrigation systems shall be kept in good working condition and repair so as to
prevent leaks or public health hazards.
   D.   Vegetative overgrowth shall not be permitted in a manner that is likely
to harbor rodents, vermin, insects, or other nuisances; or impede, obstruct, or
deny pedestrian or other lawful travel on sidewalks, walkways or other public
rights of way. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.35.110: MAINTENANCE RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.   It shall be the responsibility of any owner of any structure,
residence, property, grounds or lots to ensure or compel compliance with the
property maintenance standards set forth in this chapter.
   B.   It shall be the responsibility of any owner, tenant, lessee, or
occupant of any structure, residence, property, grounds or lots to remove
debris and remove any vegetation that is in violation of this chapter that has
accumulated on any streets within the town, if such person(s) placed the debris
on such private property or streets, or otherwise owns, is occupying, or has
custody or control over such private property or streets. (Ord. 254, 12-16-
2014)
CHAPTER 9.36
SIGN REGULATIONS
(Reserved)
(Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
CHAPTER 9.37
SOIL EROSION AND DUST CONTROL
SECTION:
9.37.010: Purpose
9.37.020: Applicability
9.37.030: Exempt Activities
9.37.040: Soil Erosion, Sediment And Dust Control Plans
9.37.050: Windborne Soil Erosion
9.37.060: Erosion Control, Runoff Control, And Enforcement
9.37.010: PURPOSE:
This chapter establishes uniform standards and processes for regulating
development that disturbs the surface of lands. The intent of these provisions
is to ensure conservation of soil, water, and other valuable natural resources,
reduce erosion and maintain soil productivity, maintain healthy environments
and air quality, and guide the planning and evaluation of proposed development.
(Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.37.020: APPLICABILITY:
Each section in this chapter describes activities that disturb land surfaces;
identifies required permits and plans for the activities; and provides
regulations to mitigate the adverse impact of the activities from new
development. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.37.030: EXEMPT ACTIVITIES:
The intent of this section is not to invalidate existing discretionary permits
issued by the town, but rather to prevent or mitigate accelerated erosion. The
following activities shall be exempt from the provisions of this chapter:
   A.   Activities Not Resulting In Land Disturbance: Activities where the
director recognizes that no land disturbance will take place or otherwise
determines activities to be exempt, including:
      1.   Change of use permits where there would be no expansion of land
disturbing activities.
      2.   Construction within an existing structure.
   B.   Agricultural Activities: Agricultural grading and routine agricultural
activities (e.g., plowing, harrowing, disking, ridging, listing, land planning,
and similar operations to prepare a field for a crop, including routine
clearing to maintain existing rangeland, etc.).
   C.   Land Clearing Activities For Fire Prevention: Land clearing and
vegetation clearance around structures as required by state and local fire
codes and fire prevention guidelines. Land clearing shall be limited to that
required to comply with applicable fire codes and regulations.
   D.   Septic System And Well Installation And Repair Activities: Activities
in compliance with a valid permit for septic system installation and repair or
well drilling.
   E.   Soil Testing Activities: Routine testing of soil type and
characteristics to determine soil suitability, water percolation, or similar
soil tests; provided, however, that sediment from these activities shall not be
allowed to enter a stream, drainage course, body of water, or onto adjacent
properties.
   F.   Installation Or Repair Of Utility Services Within Public Rights Of Way:
When necessary to grade, trench, or otherwise install, repair or replace
utility services within the boundaries of utility or public rights of way when
the activities are completed within seventy two (72) hours. (Ord. 254, 12-16-
2014)
9.37.040: SOIL EROSION, SEDIMENT AND DUST CONTROL PLANS:
This section provides regulations for project planning, preparation of soil
erosion, sediment and dust control plans, runoff control, and land clearing to
control disturbances to fragile desert soils in order to reduce the amount of
fugitive dust that may (for long periods of time) adversely affect those who
own, possess, control, or use parcels of land; and those who are located
downwind of a parcel of land whose surface is being disturbed.
   A.   Applicability: The provisions in this section apply to development
applications on parcels that are one acre or greater in size or have a slope of
greater than ten percent (10%).
   B.   Permit Requirements: No person except as provided in this chapter,
shall commence with a disturbance of land (e.g., grading or land clearing) or
construction activity that has the potential to cause erosion without first
obtaining approval of erosion control measures to ensure that erosion would not
reasonably be expected to occur. Best management practices (BMPs) shall be
implemented at all land disturbance sites, regardless of the area of
disturbance. A land use permit shall not be required for grading, land
clearing, or vegetation removal activities that comply with subsection C, "Dust
Control Standards", of this section. If more extensive grading, land clearing,
or vegetation removal activities are proposed than allowed in subsection C of
this section, the activities shall require approval of a site plan and design
review permit in compliance with
 chapter 9.68, "Site Plan And Design Review", of this title.
      1.   Permit Application: An application for the grading permit shall be
made in writing to the department on forms provided by the town. The
application shall be accompanied by specified plans and supporting data/
materials and a fee established by resolution of the council to cover the costs
of handling and processing the application.
      2.   Conditions: The grading permit shall be subject to conditions that
the director may impose to ensure that surface protection is provided before,
during, and/or after the time of the disturbance of the surface or subsurface
of the land. Protective measures required by the director shall be provided by
means of measures or any other effective method, or combination of methods, of
holding the soil in place.
      3.   Annual Permit Renewals And Fee Payments: Annual renewal and payment
of appropriate fees shall be required until the director releases the permittee
from the permittee's obligations under the permit in compliance with subsection
B4, "Continuing Obligation To Prevent Erosion Until Release", of this section.
      4.   Continuing Obligation To Prevent Erosion Until Release: In order to
prevent the soil on the land from being eroded by wind and blown onto public
roads or other public or private property, the permittee's obligations under
the grading permit shall continue in force and effect, regardless of whether
the permit has been renewed as required by subsection B3, "Annual Permit
Renewals And Fee Payments", of this section until the town has notified the
permittee in writing that the permittee's obligations under the grading permit
are released.
   C.   Dust Control Standards: Land shall be cleared or natural vegetation
shall be removed only in order to provide for the installation of building
pads, driveways, landscaping, agriculture, or some other structure or allowed
use normally related or accessory to residential uses. No person, except as
provided in this chapter, shall commence with a disturbance of land (e.g.,
grading or land clearing) without first obtaining approval to assure that said
disturbance will not result in a significant increase of fugitive dust. Said
approval may be in the form of a development permit. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.37.050: WINDBORNE SOIL EROSION:
This section provides regulations to conserve soil resources and to minimize
the injurious effects of dust storms.
   A.   Statement Of Hazardous Wind Erosion Conditions:
      1.   Existence Of Hazardous Wind Erosion Conditions: Serious and
hazardous wind erosion problems exist within the town creating conditions that
adversely affect the health, safety, welfare, and property of residents of the
town.
      2.   Reasons For Hazardous Wind Erosion Conditions: These conditions
exist because of:
         a.   Improper and untimely disturbance of the surface or subsurface of
land, the soil of which is coarse textured and of a sandy nature; and
         b.   The character and the presence of strong prevailing winds,
seasonal and otherwise, that progressively erode land and blow soil in
substantial quantity onto public and private property.
      3.   Public Nuisance: The hazardous wind erosion conditions constitute a
public nuisance.
      4.   Areas Of Hazardous Wind Erosion Conditions: Hazardous wind erosion
conditions are prevalent and in need of correction within the town.
   B.   Dust Prevention Required: To conserve the soil resources and to
minimize the injurious effects of dust storms, the owner and all persons in
possession of real property subject to any development permit within the town
shall take reasonable measures and means to prevent dust blowing from the
property.
   C.   Enforcement: Enforcement of this section shall be pursuant to the
provisions of section
9.37.060, "Erosion Control, Runoff Control, And Enforcement", of this chapter.
(Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.37.060: EROSION CONTROL, RUNOFF CONTROL, AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   General Erosion Control Requirements:
      1.   Conditions Causing Accelerated Erosion Prohibited: No person shall
cause, or allow the continued existence of, a condition on a site that is
causing or is likely to cause accelerated erosion as determined by the
director.
      2.   Notification To Control Erosion: Upon notification by the director,
the responsible person shall take appropriate measures to control erosion on
the site within a reasonable period of time as determined by the director.
      3.   Plan/Permit Approval: The director may require that a property
owner, whose property has been cited in noncompliance with subsection A2,
"Notification To Control Erosion", of this section, file and obtain approval of
a soil erosion and sediment control plan and grading permit in compliance with
subsection
9.37.040B of this chapter (soil erosion and sediment control plans).
      4.   Cessation Of Activities Due To Inclement Weather: The director may
require that a particular operation, process, or construction be stopped during
periods of inclement weather if the director determines that erosion problems
are not adequately being controlled.
   B.   Runoff Control Measures: Activities subject to a development permit
(e.g., conditional use permit, building permit, grading permit, planned
development permit, site plan and design permit, temporary use permit, etc.)
shall implement measures to control runoff in order to prevent erosion.
Measures shall be adequate to control runoff from a 100-year storm.
      1.   Prevention Of Sediment Discharge: Erosion control and surface flow
containment facilities shall be constructed and maintained to prevent discharge
of sediment to surface waters or storm drainage systems.
      2.   Permeability Rate:
         a.   More Than Two Inches Per Hour: Where soils have a permeability
rate of more than two inches (2") per hour, runoff shall be retained on the
site by methods and in quantities approved by the building official, at the
level of increment plus ten percent (10%) that percolates within forty eight
(48) hours. This may be accomplished through the use of infiltration basins,
percolation pits or trenches, or other suitable means. This requirement may be
waived where the director determines that high groundwater, slope stability
problems, etc., would inhibit or be aggravated by on site retention, or where
retention will provide no benefits for groundwater recharge or erosion control.
The runoff water shall be discharged over nonerodible surfaces or at a velocity
that will not erode.
         b.   Two Inches Per Hour Or Less: Where soils have a permeability rate
of two inches (2") per hour or less and on site percolation is not feasible,
runoff shall be detained or dispersed over nonerodible vegetated surfaces so
that the runoff rate does not exceed the predevelopment level, while
implementing measures designed to retain increment plus ten percent (10%)
retained that percolates within forty eight (48) hours where feasible. The
runoff water shall be discharged over nonerodible surfaces or at a velocity
that will not erode. The director shall require on site detention unless the
applicant shows that the runoff will not contribute to downstream erosion,
flooding, or sedimentation.
      3.   On Site Percolation Devices: Concentrated runoff that cannot be
effectively dispersed over nonerodible channels or conduits to the nearest
drainage course shall be contained within on site percolation devices.
      4.   Energy Dissipaters At Point Of Discharge: Where water will be
discharged to natural ground or channels, appropriate energy dissipaters shall
be installed to prevent erosion at the point of discharge.
      5.   Detention Or Filtration Mechanisms: Runoff from disturbed areas
shall be detained or filtered by berms, vegetated filter strips, catch basins,
or other means necessary to prevent the escape of sediment from the disturbed
area.
      6.   Deposition Of Earth Or Materials Prohibited: No earth, organic, or
construction material shall be deposited in or placed where it may be directly
carried into a stream, lake, marsh, slough, lagoon, or body of water.
      7.   Buffer Zone Along Land/Water Margin: Where land disturbing
activities are in proximity to lakes or natural watercourses, a buffer zone
shall be required along the land/water margin of sufficient width to confine
visible siltation within twenty five percent (25%) of the buffer zone nearest
the land disturbing activities.
   C.   Authority:
      1.   Authorized Actions: The town shall have authority, at all reasonable
times, to enforce this chapter and to:
         a.   Enter upon any property to investigate for violations of this
chapter.
         b.   Issue temporary stop work orders.
         c.   Issue a citation to a person committing a misdemeanor or an
infraction offense under this chapter within the presence of the director.
      2.   Inspection Or Abatement:
         a.   The inspection or abatement of a structure or private property
shall be made:
            (1)   With the consent of the owner or occupant of the property; or
            (2)   If consent is refused, with a warrant issued in compliance
with California Code Of Civil Procedure section 1822.50 (title 13 [inspection
warrants] of part 3 [special proceedings of a civil nature]).
         b.   However, in the event of an emergency affecting the public health
or safety, an inspection or abatement may be made without consent or the
issuance of a warrant.
   D.   Abatement Of Hazardous Conditions:
      1.   Notice Of Hazardous Conditions: When land presents a hazardous
condition that may affect the health, safety, and welfare of neighboring
residents (because of the condition of the land with regard to loose soil and
windy conditions), the landowners of record shall be notified by the director
in writing by first class mail of the conditions.
      2.   Deadline For Abatement: If these conditions are not corrected within
thirty (30) days of the mailing of the notice, the director may order the
conditions to be corrected as reasonably and economically as possible at the
discretion of the director. However, when time is of the essence and emergency
action is necessary to put into effect these protective provisions, the
director may take immediate steps to abate the hazardous soil erosion
condition.
   E.   Temporary Stop Work Orders:
      1.   Issuance: The director may issue a temporary stop work order and the
subject soil disturbing operation shall immediately be stopped, whether a
permit has been issued or not, when:
         a.   A permit has been issued, but not all of the permit requirements
have been complied with. The temporary stop work order may require that all
work cease until all the permit requirements have been met.
         b.   Operations are in progress, with a permit or not, and weather
conditions are causing substantial dust to be carried into the air. The
temporary stop work order may require the cessation of all work until the
current dust air pollution is abated.
         c.   Operations are in progress, regardless of weather conditions, and
a soil disturbance permit has not been issued.
      2.   Appeal Not Allowed: A temporary stop work order shall not be subject
to an appeal. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
CHAPTER 9.38
TEMPORARY SPECIAL EVENTS
SECTION:
9.38.010: Purpose
9.38.020: Duration And Frequency
9.38.030: Permit Required
9.38.040: Standards And Regulations
9.38.050: Requests For Law Enforcement Services At Special Events
9.38.060: Temporary Special Event Amendment
9.38.070: Temporary Special Event Revocation
9.38.010: PURPOSE:
This chapter provides development standards for temporary special events to
ensure that basic health, safety, and community welfare standards are met,
while approving suitable temporary special events with the minimum necessary
conditions or limitations consistent with the temporary nature of the activity.
A temporary special event permit allows short term activities that might not
meet the normal development or use standards of the applicable zoning district,
but may be considered acceptable because of their temporary nature. These
activities are regulated to avoid incompatibility between the proposed activity
and surrounding areas. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.38.020: DURATION AND FREQUENCY:
   A.   Permitted Events: Temporary special events shall be permitted with a
temporary special event permit as specified in the table below which indicates
each temporary special event permitted, the zones in which the use is allowed,
the maximum number of days each use is allowed and the maximum number of
occurrences in each calendar year:
   TABLE 3-24(A)
   SPECIAL EVENTS
 
Permitted       Land Use       Maximum
Special Event   District       Number of  Maximum Number of Events Per Calendar Year Per Location And/Or Vendor
(With A Special Permitted      Days Per
Event Permit)                  Event
                All C, I, and
                public/ quasi-
                public land
                use districts, 2 days per Permit is valid for 1 year - no more than 2 farmers’ markets may occur on
Farmers’marketall land use   week       the same day(s) within the town
                districts in
                Old Town
                Specific Plan
                area
Church tent     All land use
revival         districts      10         3
meetings
                All C, I, and
                public/ quasi-
                public land
Circus,         use districts,
carnival        all land use   10         4
                districts in
                Old Town
                Specific Plan
                area
                All C, I, and
Fair, concerts, public/ quasi-
parades,        public land
exhibits, car   use districts,
shows, street   all land use   10         10
fairs or        districts in
similar events  Old Town
                Specific Plan
                area
                All C, I, and
                public/quasi-
                public land
                use districts,
                all land use
Parking lot     districts in
sales           Old Town       2          2
                Specific Plan
                area, and
                institutional
                sites in all
                land use
                districts
Seasonal                       See
holiday sales   Nonresidential subsection 3
facilities      districts      D of this
                               section
 
   TABLE 3-24(B)
   SPECIAL EVENTS IN RESIDENTIAL AREAS
 
                                                          Maximum    Maximum
Class Type Description  Permit      Review    Minimum     Number of  Number of
                        Required    Authority Parcel Size Guests Per Events Per
                                                          Event      Year
           Minor
           special
           events
           including
           health and
           wellness     Class I
           events,      Special
           yoga,        Event
           meditation,  Permit
Class I    culinary or  (TSTVR      Staff     0.50 acre   20         50
           music        exempt
           instruction, within
           art or       permitted
           writing      occupancy
           workshops,   limits)
           or any
           similar
           activities.
           (No Notice
           Required)
           Minor
           special
           events
           including
           weddings,
           parties or
           similar      Class II
           events when  Special
Class II   attendance   Event       Staff     1 acre      50         39
           is between   Permit
           21 and 50
           people,
           excluding
           serving
           staff,
           officiant,
           etc.
           Major
           special
           events
           including
           weddings,
           parties or
           similar      Class III
           events when  Special     Planning
Class III  attendance   Event       Commissi  5 acre      100        26
           is between   Permit      on
           51 and 100
           people,
           excluding
           serving
           staff,
           officiant,
           etc.
           Major
           special
           events
           including
           weddings,
           parties or
           similar
           events but
           taking place
           at non-      Class IV    Planning
Class IV   residential  Conditional Commissi  1 acre      100        39
           structure,   Use Permit  on
           and where
           attendance
           is up to 100
           people,
           excluding
           serving
           staff,
           officiant,
           etc.
 
   B.   Interpretation: Where uncertainty exists regarding the interpretation
of any provision of this chapter or its application to a specific special event
which may not be listed, the director shall determine the intent of the
provision and/or determine whether the proposed event is consistent with the
provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Multiple Events: Multiple temporary special events may be combined into
a single permit, however certified farmers' markets shall comply with the
California code of regulations, section 1392 and obtain all required permits
from the town.
   D.   Seasonal Holiday Sales Facilities: Seasonal holiday sales activities
(e.g., Christmas, Halloween, Thanksgiving, etc.) including temporary residence/
security trailers, on nonresidential properties, for up to forty five (45)
days.
      1.   Date Of Opening: A Christmas tree sales facility shall not be open
for business during any calendar day before Thanksgiving. Other holiday sales
facilities shall not be open more than thirty (30) days before the holiday.
      2.   Additional Permits: The applicant shall secure an electrical permit
if the facility is to be energized and the proper permits from the building
division for any temporary structure or shelter.
      3.   Fire Prevention: Each Christmas tree/holiday sales facility shall
comply with fire prevention standards as approved and enforced by the fire
chief, including any burning or open fires or flocking or painting.
      4.   Maintenance: Seasonal holiday sales facilities shall be kept clean
and free of debris at all times during use of the property.
      5.   Merchandise: A seasonal holiday sales facility shall not engage in
the sale of any merchandise not directly associated with the holiday identified
by the applicant as the basis for the seasonal holiday facility.
      6.   Off Street Parking: The director shall approve all public access.
      7.   Removal Of Facility: The seasonal holiday facility shall be removed
within fourteen (14) days after Christmas or other holiday.
   E.   Standards for Temporary Single-Family Special Events:
      1.   A Temporary Single-Family Special Event is defined as follows: a
wedding ceremony/reception, birthday, quinceañera, baby shower, bridal shower,
bar mitzvah/bat mitzvah, anniversary, bachelor/bachelorette party, celebration
of life, graduation celebration, or any other similar event where fees are
charged to participants, attendees, guests, hosts, or operators, either
directly or indirectly, such as the collection of donations. Temporary Single-
Family Special Events shall not include the following: concert, rave, sporting
event, or any other event which the Planning Commission deems to be
inconsistent with this code.
      2.   Temporary special events are allowed in the following zoning
districts: R-S, RL, and R-HR.
      3.   Class I and Class II events are subject to a 3-day maximum time
limit, with a minimum of 4 days between events. Class III and Class IV are
subject to a 2-day maximum time limit, with a minimum of 5 days between events.
      4.   A legally established single-family residential dwelling unit is
eligible to obtain a Class I, Class II, or Class III Temporary Special Event
Permit. No other types of structures or uses are eligible to obtain a Class I,
Class II, or Class III Temporary Special Event Permit.
      5.   A Class I, Class II, or Class III Temporary Single-Family Special
Event permit is valid for a maximum of three (3) years.
      6.   Multi-family residential structure(s) are not eligible for a
Temporary Special Event Permit.
      7.   Properties that are 10 acres or greater in size may exceed the
maximum number of guests per event by up to 50 guests (not including employees
or staff), at the discretion of the Planning Commission.
      8.   One (1) standard-size parking stall is required for every two (2)
guests, and one (1) parking stall is required for each employee or staff
member. Parking stall size and parking lot design shall comply with the
standards provided in
Chapter 9.33 , Parking and Loading Regulations, of the Town’s Development Code,
including required parking spaces for people with physical disabilities.
Parking shall be allowed on-site only.
      9.   All Temporary Single-Family Special Events shall comply with
Chapter 9.34 , Performance Standards, of the Town’s Development Code.
      10.   Amplified sound or music shall be conducted within an enclosed
permitted structure. No outdoor amplified sound or music shall be allowed,
except in the case of amplified sound for the purpose of public address. Sound
levels, including public address, shall not exceed those provided in Chapter
9.34.080  of the Town’s Development Code.
      11.   Health Department approval shall be required for all events
providing food, regardless of who is providing the food.
      12.   Any event with temporary structures shall require County Fire
Department Approval.
      13.   Temporary Single-Family Special Events shall comply with all County
Fire Department standards and regulations, including but not limited to
restrictions on fireworks and bonfires.
      14.   Sheriff’s Department approval may be required for those events as
determined necessary by the Director or Planning Commission.
      15.   Temporary Single-Family Special Events which may exceed the
standards presented in
Table 3-24 (B)  may be approved subject to the review and approval of a
conditional use permit by the Planning Commission.
      16.   Class I Temporary Single-Family Special Events do not require
public noticing.
      17.   Class II Temporary Single-Family Special Events require a notice to
all surrounding property owners within a 300' radius.
      18.   Class III Temporary Single-Family Special Events require public
hearing noticing pursuant to Town of Yucca Valley Development Code,
Chapter 9.85  Public Notices and Hearings.
      19.   Class IV - (Conditional Use Permit) require public hearing noticing
pursuant to Town of Yucca Valley Development Code,
Chapter 9.85  Public Notices and Hearings.
      20.   Permits issued under this chapter are subject to revocation
procedures established in Town of Yucca Valley Development Code,
Chapter 9.85  Permit Revocations, and are also subject to enforcement
procedures authorized within the Town of Yucca Valley Municipal Code and Town
of Yucca Valley Development Code. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014; Ord. 310, 2-6-2024;
Ord. 326, 2-4-2025)
9.38.030: PERMIT REQUIRED:
Except as otherwise provided by the town of Yucca Valley or state law, no
person or entity shall operate, maintain, conduct, advertise, or provide
admission for any temporary special event within the town of Yucca Valley
without possessing an unexpired, unsuspended and unrevoked permit from the
planning division for each such temporary special event.
To ensure cleanup and restoration of the site, an applicant may be required to
post a deposit at the time the application is submitted. Upon the completion of
the event and inspection of the site by the town, the deposit may be returned
to the applicant if the cleanup and restoration of the site has been determined
by the town to be sufficient. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.38.040: STANDARDS AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Change Of Date: Upon the request of the applicant, the issuing
authority shall have the power, upon a showing of good cause, to change the
date for which the permit has been issued provided established limitations are
complied with in respect to time and location. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.38.050: REQUESTS FOR LAW ENFORCEMENT SERVICES AT SPECIAL EVENTS:
Any person or entity required to obtain a permit in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter may request law enforcement services to preserve the
peace at special events. Such application shall be made to the sheriff's
department and shall be in writing, stating the name and address of the
applicant, the place where the special event is to be held, the estimated
number of persons to be present and the purpose of the special event. Upon
receipt of said application, the sheriff's department shall determine whether
law enforcement services are necessary to preserve the peace, and if the
sheriff's department so determines, and if the services will not reduce the
normal and regular ongoing service that the town would otherwise provide, the
sheriff's department shall contract with the applicant to provide the services
at an amount to include all costs to the town of Yucca Valley. (Ord. 254, 12-
16-2014)
9.38.060: TEMPORARY SPECIAL EVENT AMENDMENT:
Refer to
chapter 9.83, "Permit Amendments", of this title. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.38.070: TEMPORARY SPECIAL EVENT REVOCATION:
Refer to
chapter 9.84, "Permit Revocations", of this title. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
CHAPTER 9.39
TEMPORARY USES AND STRUCTURES
SECTION:
9.39.010: Purpose And Intent
9.39.020: Applicability
9.39.030: Exempt Temporary Structures And Uses
9.39.040: Structures And Uses Allowed With Temporary Use Permit
9.39.050: Permitted Temporary Uses
9.39.060: Additional Development Standards
9.39.070: Interim Operation Of Activities Requiring A Conditional Use Permit
9.39.080: Camping Or Occupancy Of Temporary Structure Prohibited
9.39.090: Temporary Use Amendment
9.39.100: Temporary Use Revocation
9.39.010: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide development and use standards for
temporary structures and uses that might not meet the normal development or use
standards of the applicable land use zoning district, but may otherwise be
acceptable because of their temporary nature, and to prohibit the use of
vehicles as substitutes for structures unless otherwise allowed, permitted, or
exempted. The intent of these standards is to minimize the potential
incompatibility of a temporary structure or use of a vehicle in lieu of such
structures and to regulate the location, operation, and/or duration to protect
the public convenience, health, interest, safety, and general welfare. (Ord.
254, 12-16-2014)
9.39.020: APPLICABILITY:
This chapter provides development and use standards for structures and uses
that fall within the categories in section
9.39.040, "Structures And Uses Allowed With Temporary Use Permit", of this
chapter. Regulations for temporary special events are provided in
chapter 9.38, "Temporary Special Events", of this article 3. See
chapter 9.72, "Temporary Use Permits", of this title for permit requirements
and procedures. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.39.030: EXEMPT TEMPORARY STRUCTURES AND USES:
The temporary structures and uses listed in this section shall be exempt from
obtaining a temporary use permit. Temporary structures and uses that do not
fall within the following categories shall comply with section
9.39.040, "Structures And Uses Allowed With Temporary Use Permit", of this
chapter.
   A.   Construction Yards; On Site: On site contractors' construction yards,
for an approved construction project. The construction yard shall be removed
immediately upon completion of the construction project, or the expiration of
the building permit authorizing the construction project, whichever first
occurs.
   B.   Emergency Facilities: Emergency public health and safety needs/land use
activities, as determined by the town.
   C.   Events On Sites Approved For Public Assembly: An event on the site of,
or within, a golf course, meeting hall, religious facility, school, theater, or
other similar facility designed, and approved by the town for public assembly.
   D.   Location Filming: The temporary use of a specific site for the location
filming of commercials, movies, videos, and similar filming, for the time
specified by the director. Even though this use is exempt from a temporary use
permit, it may require a film permit issued by the community development
department.
   E.   Public Property Or Public Right Of Way: Construction and maintenance
activities conducted on public properties that are authorized by an
encroachment permit issued by the department of public works. (Ord. 254, 12-16-
2014)
9.39.040: STRUCTURES AND USES ALLOWED WITH TEMPORARY USE PERMIT:
The temporary structures and uses identified in this section shall be allowed
in any land use zoning district subject to the standards in this section and a
temporary use permit issued in compliance with
chapter 9.72, "Temporary Use Permits", of this title.
   A.   Batch Plants: Batch plants necessary for the construction of major
public infrastructure improvements provided proper review in compliance with
the California environmental quality act (CEQA) is completed.
   B.   Construction Yards; Off Site: Off site contractors' construction yards,
for an approved construction project. The construction yard shall be removed
immediately upon completion of the construction project, or the expiration of
the building permit authorizing the construction project, whichever first
occurs. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.39.050: PERMITTED TEMPORARY USES:
An application for a temporary use permit shall be required for the following
temporary uses and shall be subject to conditions established in this code and
any other additional conditions as may be prescribed by the director. The
following temporary uses may be permitted subject to the approval of a
temporary use permit:
   A.   Temporary Residential Quarters: Manufactured homes and self- contained
recreational vehicles may be used for temporary residential quarters only in
the following instances and for a period of time not to exceed one year with
one year extensions; not to exceed an aggregate total of four (4) years:
      1.   Temporary residential quarters for individuals involved in the
construction of the first permanent dwelling unit on the same parcel. Such
temporary use permits may be approved when construction permits have been
issued by the building and safety division;
      2.   Temporary residential quarters for security personnel for
construction projects for which construction permits have been issued by the
building and safety division;
      3.   Temporary residential quarters for security personnel for the short
term protection of permitted commercial, commercial agricultural, industrial or
institutional use;
The provisions of this section shall not apply to public school property;
Temporary use permits issued pursuant to this subsection A shall become invalid
upon the cancellation of the building permit or the completion of the
construction project for which the building permit and temporary use permit
were issued.
   B.   Temporary Nonresidential Quarters: Manufactured homes, commercial
coaches, self-contained recreational vehicles, mobile office vehicles or other
appropriate and approved structures may be used for temporary nonresidential
quarters as an accessory use to a primary permitted use. Such temporary
nonresidential quarters may be used to provide temporary office, retail,
meeting, assembly, wholesale, manufacturing and/or storage space for
commercial, commercial agricultural, industrial or institutional uses for a
period of time not to exceed one year with one year extensions; not to exceed
an aggregate total of four (4) years.
      1.   The town shall determine that the proposed use complies with the
development standards in article 2, "Zoning Districts And Development
Standards", of this title including:
         a.   Adequate access, circulation, and parking.
         b.   Appropriate buffering from abutting uses.
         c.   Fencing.
         d.   Landscaping.
         e.   Lighting.
      2.   Under exceptional or extraordinary circumstances, a temporary use
permit for temporary nonresidential structures may be extended beyond the five
(5) year limitation at the discretion of the town.
   C.   Temporary Construction Office Quarters: In conjunction with approved
construction projects, manufactured homes, commercial coaches, self-contained
recreational vehicles, mobile office vehicles or other appropriate and approved
structures may be used for temporary construction office quarters for a period
of time not to exceed one year with one year extensions; not to exceed an
aggregate total of four (4) years. Temporary use permits issued pursuant to
this subsection shall become invalid upon the cancellation of the building
permit or the completion of the construction project for which the building
permit and temporary use permit were issued.
   D.   Temporary Real Estate Model Home/Sales Offices: Dwelling units located
in residential developments and subdivisions may be used for temporary real
estate model home/sales office. Said model home/sales office may be used only
for conducting the activities necessary for the initial sale or lease of the
land or structure located within the residential development or subdivision in
which the model home/sales office is located.
      1.   Model Homes: A model home or model home complex may be authorized
before the completion of subdivision improvements in compliance with the
following standards:
         a.   The sales office and any off street parking shall be converted
back to residential use and/or removed before the issuance of the final
occupancy permit or within fourteen (14) days from the close of escrow of the
last parcel in the subdivision, whichever first occurs.
         b.   The model home complex shall be used to sell only units within
the development within which the complex is located.
         c.   Model home permits and model home sign permits will be finalized
and the model homes will be allowed to be open to the public only after all
required bonding has been accomplished and accepted by the town and a temporary
use permit has been issued.
         d.   At least one model home shall be fully landscaped with drought
tolerant xeriscape materials.
         e.   The town may require other conditions of approval deemed
necessary to protect the public health, safety, and general welfare of persons
residing or working in the neighborhood.
      2.   Real Estate Sales Offices: A temporary real estate sales office
(modular structure) may be established within the area of an approved
subdivision, solely for the first sale of homes. An application for a temporary
real estate office may be approved for a maximum of twelve (12) months from the
date of approval.
   E.   Temporary On-Your-Lot Builder Model Home/Sales Office: Single- family
dwelling units may be used for temporary on-your-lot builder model homes/sales
offices subject to a temporary use permit and the provisions of this chapter,
including the following:
      1.   Intent: The provisions of this section are intended to regulate the
use of a single-family dwelling unit when used as a temporary sales office and
model home for the sale of construction services to build single-family
residential units on vacant lots. These provisions are not intended to allow a
permanent or temporary real estate office involved in real estate sales other
than those involving lots sold in conjunction with the construction services
being offered;
      2.   Finding: Prior to the issuance of a temporary use permit, the
reviewing authority shall find and justify that the proposed on- your-lot
builder model home/sales office structure is located fronting on a roadway
designated by the circulation plan of the general plan as identified in
subsection E5 of this section.
      3.   Activities Restricted To Construction Services And Related Sales Of
Vacant Lots: The on-your-lot builder model home/sales office shall be used only
for the sale of construction services to build single-family residential
dwelling units on vacant lots and related real estate sales. Real estate sales
shall be limited to the sale of vacant lots in conjunction with the sale of
construction services for the same lot. Real estate sales shall be an accessory
and subordinate use to the primary use of construction service or sales.
      4.   Inspection Annually By Fire Department: An annual inspection shall
be made by the fire department in order to ensure compliance with conditions of
approval of the temporary use permit.
      5.   Location Of Structure: The on-your-lot builder model home/sales
office structure shall be located fronting on a roadway designated by the
general plan in the circulation element as one of the following:
         a.   Highway (6 lanes divided);
         b.   Highway (4 lanes divided);
         c.   Arterial (4 lanes divided);
         d.   Collector (4 lanes);
         e.   Collector (2 lanes);
         f.   Industrial (2 lanes).
      6.   Parking: A minimum of two (2) paved and two (2) other alternate
parking spaces shall be provided. The town shall approve alternate parking
spaces subject to surfacing requirements and possible alternate locations
(e.g., on street parking) where it is deemed necessary and appropriate.
      7.   Performance Bond: A bond shall be required to ensure removal of any
signs or flags and to reconvert, where necessary, any garage conversion.
      8.   Xeriscape: The model home shall be fully landscaped with drought
tolerant xeriscape materials.
      9.   Transfer Of Permit: A temporary use permit for an on-your-lot
builder model home/sales office may be transferred to another party. A transfer
shall not entitle the new owner to use the temporary use permit for a longer
time period than five (5) years from the issuance of the original permit. The
code enforcement division shall be notified of any transfer of ownership.
         a.   Agreement To Terminate A Temporary Use: Before the issuance of
the temporary use permit for the first year and as a condition of the permit
approval, the permittee shall enter into an agreement with the town, which
shall be recorded in the official records of the county by the county recorder.
The agreement shall establish the responsibility of the permittee to comply
with the provisions of this chapter. This will include acknowledgment that the
permittee shall terminate the model home/sales office no later than five (5)
years from the date of the initial permit and shall restore the structure to a
use allowed by the current land use zoning district in which the subject
property is located.
   F.   Temporary Outdoor Storage Or Sales: Interim operation of an exterior
storage area or short term exterior sales display area. Provisions regulating
seasonal sales lots are in subsection
9.38.020D, "Seasonal Holiday Sales Facilities", of this article 3.
   G.   Temporary Work Trailers: A trailer or mobilehome used as a temporary
work site for employees of a business; provided, that:
      1.   The use is authorized by a building permit for the trailer or
mobilehome, and the building permit for the permanent structure;
      2.   The use is appropriate because:
         a.   The trailer or mobilehome will be in place during construction or
remodeling of a permanent commercial or manufacturing structure for a maximum
of twelve (12) months, or upon expiration of the building permit for the
permanent structure, whichever first occurs; or
         b.   The applicant has demonstrated that the temporary work site is a
short term necessity for a maximum of twelve (12) months, while a permanent
work site is being obtained.
      3.   The trailer or mobilehome is removed before final building
inspection or the issuance of a certificate of occupancy for the permanent
structure.
      4.   A temporary use permit issued in conjunction with a construction
project shall become invalid upon:
         a.   Cancellation of the building permit for the approved temporary
structure or use; or
         b.   Completion of the building permit for the approved temporary
structure or use; or
         c.   Expiration of the time for which the approval has been granted.
   H.   Temporary Signs: See
chapter 9.36 of this article 3 (temporary signs).
   I.   Temporary Transportable Treatment Units: Temporary transportable
treatment units (TTTU) used for treating hazardous waste or groundwater
contamination.
      1.   Temporary transportable treatment units shall only be allowed in
either of the following instances:
         a.   The site where a TTTU will be located and operated complies with
the siting criteria and procedures identified in the San Bernardino County
hazardous waste management plan; or
         b.   The county environmental health services division determines that
the proposed TTTU use does not create additional health risks as demonstrated
by a site specific health risk assessment and a land use compliance review is
issued and recorded in compliance with
 chapter 9.66, "Land Use Compliance Review", of this title.
      2.   A temporary use permit issued in conjunction with a TTTU shall
become invalid upon the occurrence of one of the following:
         a.   Violation of a permitting requirement; or
         b.   Completion of the project; or
         c.   Expiration of the time for which the approval has been granted.
      3.   The county environmental health services division shall conduct an
annual inspection in order to ensure compliance with any conditions of
approval.
      4.   A temporary use permit for a temporary transportable treatment unit
shall not be granted or extended for a period of time to exceed five (5) years
after the date the temporary use permit was first issued.
   J.   Accessory Storage Structures: A detached, accessory storage structure,
where the primary use does not yet exist, shall only be allowed with
appropriate bonding to remove the accessory structure if the primary use is not
completed within two (2) years.
   K.   Similar Temporary Activities: A temporary activity that the director
determines is similar to the other activities listed in this section and
compatible with the applicable land use zoning district and surrounding land
uses. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.39.060: ADDITIONAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Additional Standards: In addition to the standards in section
9.39.050, "Permitted Temporary Uses", of this chapter, the director shall
establish the following additional standards for a proposed temporary structure
or use, using the requirements of the applicable zoning district and article 2,
"Zoning Districts And Development Standards", of this title for guidance:
      1.   Structure And Property Development Improvements: Access, floor
areas, heights, landscaping, off street parking, setbacks, signs, utilities,
and other structure and property development improvements and features;
      2.   Removal Of The Activity And Site Restoration: Measures for removal
of the activity and site restoration, to ensure that no changes to the site
would limit the range of possible future land uses otherwise allowed by this
development code. Performance security may be required before installation of
the temporary structure or initiation of the temporary use to ensure cleanup
after the structure is removed or the use is finished in compliance with
section
9.80.030, "Performance Guarantees", of this title; and
      3.   Time Limitation: Limitation on the duration of an approved
"temporary structure", to a maximum of twelve (12) months, so that it shall not
become a permanent or long term structure.
   B.   Display Of Permit And Approvals: A valid temporary use permit shall be
prominently displayed so that it is visible at all times from the exterior of
the permitted structure or use and available for inspection. A permitted
temporary structure shall provide evidence of approval by the state department
of housing and community development as required by the Health And Safety Code
or the U.S. department of housing and urban development, where applicable.
   C.   Other Regulations: Installation of a permitted structure or use shall
comply with the requirements and regulations of the department and the
following:
      1.   Development code.
      2.   Building and safety division.
      3.   Fire department.
      4.   Environmental health services division.
      5.   Applicable state and federal regulations. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.39.070: INTERIM OPERATION OF ACTIVITIES REQUIRING A CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT:
   A.   Interim Operation Of Activities Requiring A Conditional Use Permit: A
temporary use permit may be issued for the interim operation of any use
requiring a conditional use permit for a period of time not to exceed twelve
(12) months, provided the temporary use permit does not authorize the
construction or establishment of new permanent structures and the review
authority makes the findings required for approval of a conditional use permit
in compliance with
chapter 9.63, "Conditional Use Permit", of this title.
   B.   Concurrent Application Filing: The temporary use permit application
shall be filed concurrently with an application for conditional use permit,
where appropriate. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.39.080: CAMPING OR OCCUPANCY OF TEMPORARY STRUCTURE PROHIBITED:
   A.   Prohibited Use:
      1.   Prohibition: It shall be unlawful to place, install, build,
maintain, use, or occupy any temporary structure on any parcel of real property
subject to the provisions of this development code for the purpose of camping,
dwelling, maintaining or establishing temporary or permanent residency unless
such placement, installation, construction, maintenance, use, or occupancy is
first authorized by a temporary use permit, special event permit, or other land
use approval required by this development code or as otherwise made an
exception herein.
   B.   Applicability: This section shall apply to the following temporary
structure:
      1.   Any tent, lean-to, box, or other makeshift building or enclosure
constructed of any material for which no building permit has been issued and no
temporary use permit, special use permit, or other land use approval has been
granted;
      2.   Any vacant building, temporary or permanent, deemed substandard
pursuant to title 6,
chapter 6.08, "Maintenance Of Abandoned Properties", of this code; and
      3.   Any building under construction and unfinished, regardless of
whether or not building (plumbing, etc.) permits have been issued.
   C.   Camping In Vehicle Prohibited:
      1.   Prohibition: It shall be unlawful to place, maintain, use, or occupy
any vehicle on any parcel of real property for the purpose of camping,
dwelling, or maintaining or establishing a temporary or permanent residency
unless such placement, maintenance, use, or occupancy is authorized pursuant to
this chapter.
   D.   Vehicle Applicability: This section shall apply to the following
vehicle types:
      1.   All recreational motor vehicles;
      2.   Recreational towed vehicles;
      3.   Mobilehomes;
      4.   Commercial coaches;
      5.   Office trailers;
      6.   Park trailers;
      7.   Passenger vehicles;
      8.   Trailers;
      9.   Campers; and
      10.   Commercial vehicles.
   E.   Notice To Abate:
      1.   The director may issue to any person occupying any structure or
vehicle parked in violation of this section a notice, including an order to
vacate the structure or vehicle after thirty (30) days of the date of the
notice.
      2.   If deemed necessary by the director to prevent or remedy an
immediate threat to health and safety of the public or occupants of the
structure, the director may issue any person occupying any structure or vehicle
prohibited in violation of this section an order to vacate the structure or
vehicle with less than thirty (30) days' notice; or institute any appropriate
action or proceeding to prevent, restrain, correct, or abate the violation or
nuisance. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.39.090: TEMPORARY USE AMENDMENT:
Refer to
chapter 9.83, "Permit Amendments", of this title. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.39.100: TEMPORARY USE REVOCATION:
Refer to
 chapter 9.84, "Permit Revocations", of this title. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
CHAPTER 9.40
SURFACE MINING AND LAND RECLAMATION
SECTION:
9.40.010: Purpose
9.40.020: Incorporation Of SMARA And State Regulations
9.40.030: Applicability
9.40.040: Permit, Plan, And Financial Assurance Requirements
9.40.050: Vested Rights
9.40.060: Application Filing, Processing, And Review
9.40.070: Additional Conditions Of Approval
9.40.080: Financial Assurances
9.40.090: Reclamation Standards
9.40.100: Interim Management Plans
9.40.110: Annual Report
9.40.120: Inspections
9.40.130: Violations; Penalties
9.40.140: Postapproval Procedures
9.40.010: PURPOSE:
   A.   Extraction Of Minerals Essential To Town Economic Well Being: The town
recognizes that the extraction of minerals is essential to the continued
economic well being of the town and its residents and to societal needs and
that the reclamation of mined lands is necessary to prevent or minimize adverse
effects on the environment and to protect the public health and safety.
   B.   Surface Mining In Diverse Areas: The town also recognizes that surface
mining takes place in diverse areas where the geologic, topographic, climatic,
biological, and social conditions are significantly different and that
reclamation operations and their related specifications may vary accordingly.
   C.   Purpose And Intent: The purpose and intent of this chapter is to ensure
the continued availability of important mineral resources, while regulating
surface mining operations as required by:
      1.   California's surface mining and reclamation act of 1975 1  (SMARA).
      2.   Public Resources Code section 2207 (relating to annual reporting
requirements).
      3.   State mining and geology board regulations ("state regulations") for
surface mining and reclamation practice (California code of regulations section
3500 et seq.) to ensure that:
         a.   Adverse environmental effects are prevented or minimized and that
mined lands are reclaimed to a usable condition that is readily adaptable for
alternative land uses.
         b.   The production and conservation of minerals are encouraged, while
giving consideration to values relating to recreation, watershed, wildlife,
range and forage, and aesthetic enjoyment.
         c.   Residual hazards to the public health and safety are eliminated.
(Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
 
Notes
1 1. PRC § 2710 et seq.
9.40.020: INCORPORATION OF SMARA AND STATE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Incorporation Of SMARA And State Regulations: The provisions of the
California surface mining and reclamation act of 1975 1 , Public Resources Code
section 2207, and the regulations implementing the act (California code of
regulations section 3500 et seq.) ("state regulations") are made a part of this
chapter by reference with the same force and effect as if the provisions were
specifically and fully contained in this chapter; except that when the
provisions of this chapter are more restrictive than correlative state
provisions, this chapter shall prevail.
   B.   Amendments To SMARA: In the event that the state amends SMARA to the
extent that it adds to or conflicts with this chapter, state law shall prevail.
(Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
 
Notes
1 1. PRC § 2710 et seq.
9.40.030: APPLICABILITY:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all public and private property
in the town. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.40.040: PERMIT, PLAN, AND FINANCIAL ASSURANCE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Approval Of Conditional Use Permit, Reclamation Plan, And Financial
Assurance Required: Unless exempted by SMARA, state regulations, or subsection
B, "Exemptions", of this section, any person who proposes to engage in surface
mining operations shall, before the commencement of the operation, obtain town
approval of a conditional use permit, reclamation plan, and financial
assurances for reclamation in compliance with this chapter. An exemption from
these approval requirements shall not automatically exempt a project or
activity from the application of other town regulations, ordinances, or
policies (e.g., the application of CEQA; the requirements of conditional use
permits or other permits; the payment of development impact fees; the
imposition of other dedications and exactions as may be allowed under the law;
etc.).
   B.   Exemptions: This chapter shall not apply to the following activities,
subject to the exceptions noted in subsection A of this section:
      1.   Excavations or grading conducted for farming or for the purpose of
restoring land following a flood or natural disaster.
      2.   On site excavation and on site earthmoving activities that are an
integral and necessary part of a construction project and that are undertaken
to prepare a site for construction of structures, landscaping, or other land
improvements, including the related excavation, grading, compaction, or the
creation of fills, road cuts, and embankments, whether or not surplus materials
are exported from the site, subject to all of the following conditions:
         a.   All required permits for the construction, landscaping, or
related land improvements have been approved by a public agency in compliance
with applicable provisions of state law and locally adopted plans and
ordinances, including the California environmental quality act (CEQA).
         b.   The town's approval of the construction project:
            (1)   Is consistent with the general plan.
            (2)   Included consideration of the on site excavation and on site
earthmoving activities in compliance with CEQA.
         c.   Surplus materials shall not be exported from the site unless and
until the site accepting the surplus materials has also been approved for
development according to the appropriate procedures of the agency having land
use jurisdiction.
         d.   Surplus materials shall not be exported from the site unless and
until actual construction work has commenced and shall cease if it is
determined that construction activities have terminated, have been indefinitely
suspended, or are no longer being actively pursued.
      3.   Operation of a plant site used for mineral processing, including
associated on site structures, equipment, machines, tools, or other materials,
including the on site stockpiling and on site recovery of mined materials,
subject to all of the following conditions:
         a.   The plant site is located on lands with an appropriate land use
zoning district designation commensurate with the activity according to the
general plan (e.g., industrial (I)).
         b.   None of the minerals being processed are being extracted on site.
         c.   Reclamation work has been completed in compliance with the
approved reclamation plan for mineral extraction activities that occurred on
site after January 1, 1976.
      4.   Prospecting for, or the extraction of, minerals for commercial
purposes and the removal of overburden in total amounts of less than one
thousand (1,000) cubic yards in any one location of one acre or less.
      5.   Limited surface mining operations that are required by federal law
in order to protect a mining claim, if those operations are conducted solely
for that purpose (otherwise known as "assessment work").
      6.   Other surface mining operations that the state mining and geology
board determines to be of an infrequent nature and that involve only minor
surface disturbances.
      7.   Emergency excavations or grading conducted by the department of
water resources or the reclamation board for the purpose of averting,
alleviating, repairing, or restoring damage to property due to imminent or
recent floods, disasters, or other emergencies.
      8.   Road construction and maintenance for timber or forest operations,
if the land is owned by the same person or entity and if the excavation is
conducted adjacent to timber or forest operation roads. This exemption shall
only be available if slope stability and erosion are controlled in compliance
with state mining and geology board reclamation regulations and, upon closure
of the site, the person closing the site implements, where necessary,
revegetation measures and postclosure uses in consultation with the department
of forestry and fire protection. This exemption shall not apply to on site
excavation or grading that occurs within one hundred feet (100') of a class one
watercourse or seventy five feet (75') of a class two watercourse, or to
excavations for materials that are, or have been, sold for commercial purposes.
(Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.40.050: VESTED RIGHTS:
   A.   Pre-SMARA And Post-SMARA Right To Conduct Surface Mining Operations: A
conditional use permit shall not be required for any person who has obtained a
vested right to conduct surface mining operations before January 1, 1976, as
long as the vested right continues and as long as no substantial changes have
been made in the operation except in compliance with SMARA, state regulations,
and this chapter. Where a person with vested rights has continued surface
mining in the same area subsequent to January 1, 1976, the person shall obtain
town approval of a reclamation plan covering the mined lands disturbed by the
subsequent surface mining. In those cases where an overlap exists (in the
horizontal and/or vertical sense) between pre-SMARA and post-SMARA mining, the
reclamation plan shall require reclamation proportional to that disturbance
caused by the mining after January 1, 1976 (i.e., the effective date of SMARA).
   B.   Other Requirements Applicable To Vested Mining Operations: All other
requirements of state law and this chapter shall apply to vested mining
operations. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.40.060: APPLICATION FILING, PROCESSING, AND REVIEW:
   A.   Application Filing:
      1.   Applications for a conditional use permit and/or reclamation plan
for surface mining or land reclamation projects shall be made on forms provided
by the department and filed in compliance with
 chapter 9.61, "Application Processing Procedures", of this title.
      2.   The forms for reclamation plan applications shall require, at a
minimum, each of the elements required by SMARA 1  and other state regulations,
and any other requirements deemed necessary to facilitate an expeditious and
fair evaluation of the proposed reclamation plan, to be established at the
discretion of the director. For surface mining operations that are exempt from
a conditional use permit in compliance with this chapter, the reclamation plan
application shall include information concerning the mining operation that is
required for processing the reclamation plan. All documentation for the
reclamation plan shall be submitted to the town at one time.
      3.   As many copies of the conditional use permit application and the
reclamation plan application as may be required by the director shall be
submitted to the department.
      4.   Applications shall include all required environmental review forms
and information prescribed by the director.
   B.   Fees:
      1.   Establishment Of Fees: The town shall establish processing fees that
it deems necessary to cover the reasonable costs incurred in implementing this
chapter and the state regulations (e.g., costs of processing of applications,
annual reports, inspections, monitoring, enforcement, compliance, etc.). The
fees shall be included in the planning fee schedule.
      2.   Payment Of Fees: The fees shall be paid by the operator, as required
by the town, at the time of filing of the conditional use permit application,
reclamation plan application, and at other times that are determined by the
town to be appropriate in order to ensure that reasonable costs of implementing
this chapter are borne by the mining operator.
   C.   Processing:
      1.   Within thirty (30) days of acceptance of an application for a
conditional use permit for surface mining operations and/or a reclamation plan
as complete, the department shall notify the state department of conservation
of the filing of the application(s).
      2.   Whenever mining operations are proposed in the 100-year floodplain
of any stream, as shown in zone A of the flood insurance rate maps issued by
the federal emergency management agency, and within one mile, upstream or
downstream, of any state highway bridge, the department shall also notify the
state department of transportation that the application has been received.
      3.   The department shall process the application(s) through
environmental review in compliance with the California environmental quality
act 1  and the town's environmental review guidelines.
      4.   Subsequent to the appropriate environmental review, the department
shall prepare a staff report with recommendations for consideration by the
commission.
      5.   Before final approval of a reclamation plan and financial assurances
(as required in this chapter), or any amendments to the reclamation plan or
existing financial assurances, the director shall:
         a.   Certify to the state department of conservation that the
reclamation plan and/or financial assurance complies with the applicable
requirements of state law, and
         b.   Submit the reclamation plan, financial assurances, or amendments
to the state department of conservation for review.
         c.   Review by commission and state.
      6.   In compliance with Public Resources Code section 2774(d), the state
department of conservation (DOC) shall be given:
         a.   Thirty (30) days to review and comment on the reclamation plan;
and
         b.   Forty five (45) days to review and comment on the financial
assurance.
      7.   The commission shall evaluate written comments received, if any,
from the DOC during the comment periods.
      8.   Staff shall prepare a written response describing the disposition of
the major issues raised by the state for the commission's approval. In
particular, when the commission's position is at variance with the
recommendations and objections raised in the state's comments, the written
response shall address, in detail, why specific comments and suggestions were
not accepted. The commission staff report including the staff prepared
responses to the DOC, along with the minutes of the hearing, shall constitute
the written response to the state.
   D.   Public Hearing: Upon completion of the environmental review procedure
and filing of documents required by the director, a public hearing before the
commission shall be held to consider approval of the conditional use permit or
reclamation plan for the proposed or existing surface mine in compliance with
Public Resources Code section 2774.
   E.   Action By Commission: The commission shall then take action to approve,
conditionally approve, or deny the conditional use permit and/or reclamation
plan, and to approve the financial assurances in compliance with Public
Resources Code section 2770(d).
   F.   Conditional Approval: If a conditional use permit is being processed
concurrently with the reclamation plan and it becomes necessary to comply with
permit processing deadlines, the commission may conditionally approve the
conditional use permit with the condition that the department shall not issue
the conditional use permit for the mining operations until cost estimates for
financial assurances have been reviewed by the state department of conservation
and final action has been taken on the reclamation plan and financial
assurances.
   G.   Approved Conditional Use Permit And Reclamation Plan Copies Provided To
State: The department shall forward a copy of each approved conditional use
permit for mining operations and/or approved reclamation plan, and a copy of
the approved financial assurances to the state department of conservation
within thirty (30) days of approval.
   H.   Statement Of Responsibility: Before commencing mining operations, the
property owner and/or mining operator shall sign a statement of responsibility
accepting responsibility for reclaiming mined lands in compliance with the
reclamation plan. The department shall retain the statement of responsibility
in the mining operation's permanent record. Upon sale or transfer of the
operation, the new operator shall submit a new statement of responsibility in
compliance with subsection I, "Transfer Of Ownership", of this section.
   I.   Transfer Of Ownership: Upon sale or transfer of a mining operation and
for the purpose of documenting a transfer of ownership of an approved
conditional use permit or reclamation plan, a new property owner and/or mining
operator of a mining operation shall submit the following documents before
taking over a mining operation:
      1.   The new operator of a mining operation shall file a transfer of
ownership application with the department. The director shall approve the
application and the transfer of ownership form shall be placed in the
department's permanent record.
      2.   The new property owner and/or mining operator of a mining operation
shall file a new statement of responsibility with the department. The director
shall approve the statement of responsibility and the new statement of
responsibility shall be placed in the department's permanent record.
   J.   Findings For Approval Of Permits And Plans:
      1.   Conditional Use Permits: In addition to the findings required by
 chapter 9.63, "Conditional Use Permit", of this title, conditional use permits
for surface mining operations shall include a finding that the project complies
with the provisions of SMARA and state regulations.
      2.   Reclamation Plans: In order to approve reclamation plans, all of the
following findings shall be made in the affirmative:
         a.   The reclamation plan complies with SMARA 1 .
         b.   The reclamation plan complies with applicable requirements of
state regulations (California code of regulations sections 3500 - 3505 and 3700
- 3713).
         c.   The reclamation plan and potential use of land reclaimed in
compliance with the plan are consistent with this chapter and the general plan
and any applicable resource plan or element.
         d.   The reclamation plan has been reviewed in compliance with CEQA
and the town's environmental review guidelines, and all significant adverse
impacts from reclamation of the surface mining operations are mitigated below a
level of significance or to the maximum extent feasible.
         e.   The land and/or resources, such as water, will be reclaimed to a
condition that is compatible with, and blends in with, the surrounding natural
environment, topography, and other resources, or suitable off site development
will compensate for related disturbance to resource values.
         f.   The reclamation plan will reclaim the mined lands to a usable
condition which is readily adaptable for alternative land uses consistent with
the general plan and applicable resource plan.
         g.   A written response to the state department of conservation has
been prepared, describing the disposition of major issues raised by that
department. Where the town's position is at variance with the recommendations
and objections raised by the state department of conservation, the response
shall address, in detail, why specific comments and suggestions were not
accepted. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
 
Notes
1 1. PRC §§ 2772 - 2773.
1 1. PRC § 21000 et seq.
1 1. PRC §§ 2772 - 2773 and any other applicable provisions.
9.40.070: ADDITIONAL CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL:
   A.   Protection Of Mines From Incompatible Uses: Mine development is
encouraged in compatible areas before encroachment of conflicting uses. Mineral
resource areas that have been classified by the state department of
conservation's division of mines and geology or designated by the state mining
and geology board as mineral resource zones (MRZ), as well as existing surface
mining operations that remain in compliance with the provisions of this
chapter, shall be protected from intrusion by incompatible land uses that may
impede or preclude mineral extraction or processing, to the extent possible for
consistency with the general plan. Before approving a use that would otherwise
be incompatible with mineral resource protection, conditions of approval may be
applied to encroaching development projects to minimize potential conflicts.
   B.   Mapping Of Identified Resources Areas: In compliance with Public
Resources Code section 2762, the general plan and resource maps shall be
updated to reflect mineral information (classification and/or designation
reports) within twelve (12) months of receipt from the state mining and geology
board of the information. Land use decisions within the town shall be guided by
information provided on the location of identified mineral resources of
regional significance. Conservation and potential development of identified
mineral resource areas shall be considered and encouraged. Recordation on
property titles of the presence of important mineral resources within the
identified mineral resource areas may be encouraged as a condition of approval
of any development project in the impacted area. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.40.080: FINANCIAL ASSURANCES:
   A.   Security Required As Condition Of Approval: To ensure that reclamation
will proceed in compliance with the approved reclamation plan, the town shall
require as a condition of approval security that will be released upon
satisfactory performance.
      1.   Acceptable Types Of Security: The applicant may post security in the
form of a surety bond, trust fund, irrevocable letter of credit from an
accredited financial institution, or other method acceptable to the town and
the state mining and geology board as specified in state regulations, and that
the town reasonably determines are adequate to perform reclamation in
compliance with the surface mining operation's approved reclamation plan.
      2.   Required Payees: Financial assurances shall be made payable to the
town and the state department of conservation. In the case where the approved
reclamation plan involves unpatented land under the control of the bureau of
land management (BLM), national park service, or U.S. forest service, the
appropriate agency shall also be added as a third payee.
   B.   Purpose Of Security: Financial assurances shall be required to ensure
compliance with elements of the reclamation plan, including the following:
      1.   Revegetation and landscaping requirements.
      2.   Reclamation of aquatic or wildlife habitat.
      3.   Reclamation of water bodies and water quality.
      4.   Slope stability and erosion and drainage control.
      5.   Disposal of hazardous materials.
      6.   Removal of equipment and buildings that are not part of an approved
end use.
      7.   Other measures, if necessary.
   C.   Cost Estimates For Security:
      1.   Cost estimates for the financial assurance shall be submitted to the
department for review and approval before the operator actually obtains
financial assurances.
      2.   The director shall forward a copy of the cost estimates, together
with supporting documentation, to the state department of conservation for
review.
      3.   If the state department of conservation does not comment within
forty five (45) days of receipt of these estimates, it shall be assumed that
the cost estimates are adequate, unless the town has reason to determine that
additional costs may be incurred.
      4.   The director shall have the discretion to approve the financial
assurance if it meets the requirements of this chapter, SMARA, and state
regulations.
   D.   Cost Estimates To Determine Amount Of Security Required:
      1.   The amount of the financial assurance shall be based upon the
estimated costs of reclamation stipulated in the approved reclamation plan,
including any maintenance of reclaimed areas as may be required, subject to
adjustment for the actual amount required to reclaim lands disturbed by surface
mining activities since January 1, 1976, and new lands to be disturbed by
surface mining activities in the upcoming year.
      2.   Cost estimates shall be prepared by the mine operator, a licensed
engineer, or other professional experienced in the reclamation of mined lands.
      3.   The estimated amount of the financial assurance shall be based on
the following:
         a.   An analysis of physical activities necessary to implement the
approved reclamation plan.
         b.   The unit costs for each of the physical activities.
         c.   The number of units of each of the physical activities.
         d.   The actual administrative costs.
      4.   Financial assurance to ensure compliance with revegetation,
reclamation of water bodies, reclamation of aquatic or wildlife habitat, and
other elements of the approved reclamation plan shall be based upon cost
estimates that include:
         a.   Labor.
         b.   Equipment.
         c.   Materials.
         d.   Mobilization of equipment.
         e.   Administration.
         f.   Reasonable profit by a commercial operator other than the
permittee.
      5.   A contingency factor of ten percent (10%) shall be added to the cost
of financial assurances to cover the town's reasonable expenses for the
administrative and legal fees required to foreclose on the financial assurance
instrument.
      6.   In projecting the costs of financial assurances, it shall be assumed
without prejudice or insinuation that the surface mining operation could be
abandoned by the operator and, consequently, the town or state department of
conservation may need to contract with a third party commercial company for
reclamation of the site.
   E.   Time Period That Security Required To Remain In Effect: The financial
assurance shall remain in effect for the duration for the surface mining
operation and any additional period specified in the reclamation plan for the
purpose of monitoring until reclamation is completed (including any maintenance
required).
   F.   Annual Adjustment In Amount Of Security: The amount of financial
assurances required of a surface mining operation for any one year shall be
adjusted annually to account for new lands disturbed by surface mining
operations, inflation, and giving credit for reclamation of lands accomplished
in compliance with the approved reclamation plan. The financial assurances
shall include estimates to cover reclamation for existing conditions and
anticipated activities during the upcoming year, excepting that the permittee
may not claim credit for reclamation scheduled for completion during the coming
year. The annual SMARA inspection by the town shall, in most cases, be used to
validate the submitted estimate.
   G.   Submittal Of Revised Security Figures: Revisions to financial
assurances shall be submitted to the director each year before the anniversary
date for approval of the financial assurances. The financial assurance shall
cover the cost of existing disturbance and anticipated activities for the next
calendar year, including any required interim reclamation. If revisions to the
financial assurances are not required, the operator shall explain, in writing,
why revisions are not required. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.40.090: RECLAMATION STANDARDS:
   A.   Applicable State Law:
      1.   Reclamation plans shall comply with the provisions of SMARA 1  and
state reclamation regulations (California code of regulations sections 3500 -
3505).
      2.   Reclamation plans approved after January 15, 1993, reclamation plans
for proposed new mining operations and any substantial amendments to previously
approved reclamation plans shall also comply with the reclamation standards in
California code of regulations sections 3700 - 3713.
   B.   Additional Performance Standards: The performance standards in this
article 3 shall apply to reclamation plans. In addition, the applicable review
authority may impose additional performance standards as developed in review of
individual projects, as warranted.
   C.   Phasing Of Reclamation:
      1.   Reclamation activities shall be initiated at the earliest possible
time on those portions of the mined lands that will not be subject to further
disturbance. Interim reclamation may also be required for mined lands that have
been disturbed and that may be disturbed again in future operations.
Reclamation may be done on an annual basis, in stages compatible with
continuing operations, or on completion of all excavation, removal, or fill, as
approved by the town.
      2.   Each phase of reclamation shall be specifically described in the
reclamation plan and shall include all of the following information:
         a.   The beginning and expected ending dates for each phase.
         b.   All reclamation activities required.
         c.   Criteria for measuring completion of specific reclamation
activities.
         d.   Estimated costs for completion of each phase of reclamation.
(Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
 
Notes
1 1. PRC §§ 2772 - 2773.
9.40.100: INTERIM MANAGEMENT PLANS:
   A.   Deadline For Submittal Of Interim Management Plan (IMP): Within ninety
(90) days of a surface mining operation becoming idle, the operator shall
submit to the department a proposed interim management plan (IMP).
   B.   IMP Submittal Requirements:
      1.   The proposed IMP shall fully comply with the requirements of SMARA
and all conditional use permit conditions and shall provide measures the
operator will implement to maintain the site in a stable condition, taking into
consideration public health and safety.
      2.   The proposed IMP shall be submitted on forms provided by the
department and shall be processed as an amendment to the reclamation plan.
      3.   An IMP shall not be considered a project for the purposes of
environmental review.
   C.   Continuation Of Security Required: Financial assurances for idle
operations shall be maintained as though the operation were active, or as
otherwise approved through the idle mine's IMP.
   D.   State Department Of Conservation Review: Upon receipt of a complete
proposed IMP, the department shall forward the IMP to the state department of
conservation for review. The IMP shall be submitted to the state department of
conservation at least thirty (30) days before approval by the director.
   E.   Director's Action On IMP: Within sixty (60) days of receipt of the
proposed IMP, or a longer period mutually agreed upon by the director and the
operator, the director shall review and approve or deny the IMP in compliance
with this chapter. The operator shall have thirty (30) days, or longer period
mutually agreed upon by the operator and the director, to submit a revised IMP.
The director shall approve or deny the revised IMP within sixty (60) days of
receipt. If the director denies the revised IMP, the operator may appeal that
action in compliance with
 chapter 9.81, "Appeals", of this title.
   F.   Duration Of Approved IMP: The IMP may remain in effect for a period not
to exceed five (5) years, at which time the director may renew the IMP for
another period not to exceed five (5) years, or require the surface mining
operator to commence reclamation in compliance with its approved reclamation
plan. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.40.110: ANNUAL REPORT:
Surface mining operators shall forward an annual surface mining report to the
state department of conservation and to the department on a date established by
the state department of conservation, upon forms furnished by the state mining
and geology board. New mining operations shall file an initial surface mining
report and any applicable filing fees with the state department of conservation
within thirty (30) days of initial permit approval, or before commencement of
operations, whichever is sooner. Applicable fees, together with a copy of the
annual inspection report, shall be forwarded to the state department of
conservation at the time of filing the annual surface mining report. (Ord. 254,
12-16-2014)
9.40.120: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Inspection Within Six Months Of Annual Report: The department shall
arrange for inspection of a surface mining operation within six (6) months of
receipt of the annual report required in section
 9.40.110, "Annual Report", of this chapter, to determine whether the surface
mining operation is in compliance with the approved conditional use permit and/
or reclamation plan, approved financial assurances, and state regulations.
   B.   Minimum One Inspection Per Calendar Year: In no event shall less than
one inspection be conducted in any calendar year.
   C.   Eligible Inspectors: The inspections may be made by a state registered
geologist, state registered civil engineer, state licensed landscape architect,
or state registered forester, who is experienced in land reclamation and who
has not been employed by the mining operation in any capacity during the
previous twelve (12) months, or other qualified specialists, as selected by the
director.
   D.   Inspection Forms: Inspections shall be conducted using a form approved
and provided by the state mining and geology board.
   E.   Notification Of Inspection To State: The department shall notify the
state department of conservation within thirty (30) days of completion of the
inspection that the inspection has been conducted, and shall forward a copy of
the inspection notice and any supporting documentation to the mining operator.
   F.   Payment For Inspection: The operator shall be solely responsible for
the reasonable cost of the inspection. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.40.130: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
If the director, based upon an annual inspection or otherwise confirmed by an
inspection of the mining operation, determines that a surface mining operation
is not in compliance with this chapter, the applicable conditional use permit,
and/or the reclamation plan, the town shall follow the procedures outlined in
Public Resources Code sections 2774.1 and 2774.2 concerning violations and
penalties, as well as the provisions of
 chapter 9.82, "Enforcement And Violations", of this title, for initiating
enforcement action, which could include the revocation of a conditional use
permit. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.40.140: POSTAPPROVAL PROCEDURES:
   A.   Transfer Of Ownership And Statement Of Responsibility: See subsections
9.40.060H, "Statement Of Responsibility", and I, "Transfer Of Ownership", of
this chapter, for provisions governing ongoing postapproval responsibilities
and evidence of transfer of property ownership.
   B.   Other Postapproval Procedures: The procedures and requirements in
article 5, "Administration", of this title, related to permit implementation,
time limits, extensions, appeals, and revocations, shall apply following the
decisions on conditional use permits and reclamation plans. (Ord. 254, 12-16-
2014)
CHAPTER 9.41
TRIP REDUCTION REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
9.41.010: Purpose
9.41.020: Nonresidential Projects
9.41.030: Multiple-Family Dwellings
9.41.040: Modifications
9.41.010: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to reduce vehicle trips thereby reducing air
congestion and pollutants and improving air quality, to comply with state law,
and to promote an improved quality of life. This chapter is intended to satisfy
the legal requirements of chapter 5 of the San Bernardino County congestion
management plan (CMP) as adopted by the San Bernardino Associated Governments
(SANBAG). (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.41.020: NONRESIDENTIAL PROJECTS:
The following trip reduction measures shall be implemented for nonresidential
projects requiring a site plan and design review or conditional use permit:
   A.   Bicycle Racks: A bicycle rack, locker, or other secure bicycle facility
shall be provided for every thirty (30) parking spaces within a project and at
least one bicycle rack capable of holding three (3) bicycles shall be provided
for all projects. Safe and convenient access to bicycle racks must be provided
from public streets.
   B.   Pedestrian And Bicycle Connection To Streets: On site pedestrian
walkways and bicycle facilities are to be provided connecting each building in
a development to public streets.
   C.   Passenger Loading Areas: A passenger loading area in a location close
to the main building entrance shall be provided for projects with one hundred
(100) or more parking spaces. The area devoted to loading and unloading of
passengers shall be equivalent to a minimum of five (5) parking spaces.
   D.   Carpool/Vanpool Parking: A parking space located in close proximity to
the building entrance shall be reserved for use by potential carpool/vanpool
vehicles for projects with one hundred (100) or more parking spaces. All
preferential parking spaces for carpool/vanpool shall be signed and striped.
Such spaces shall be accessible to vanpool vehicles. If a vanpool parking space
is located within a parking structure, a minimum vertical clearance of nine
feet (9') shall be maintained.
   E.   Transit Facilities: Transit facilities, such as bus shelter, bus
pullouts, and bus pads, shall be provided if the director, in consultation with
local transit providers, determines they are needed to serve the development.
   F.   Videoconferencing: On site videoconferencing facilities for office
buildings with a capacity of one thousand (1,000) employees or greater is
required.
   G.   Shower Facilities: A minimum of one shower facility accessible to both
men and women shall be provided for persons bicycling or walking to work for
each project which exceeds the following thresholds:
 
Use        Threshold
Commercial 250,000 sq. ft.
Industrial 325,000 sq. ft.
Office     125,000 sq. ft.
 
(Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.41.030: MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLINGS:
The following trip reduction measures shall be implemented for multiple-family
dwellings of four (4) units or more:
   A.   Bicycle Racks: A bicycle rack, locker, or other secure bicycle parking
facility is to be provided for every thirty (30) parking spaces. Each project
is to include a minimum of one bicycle rack capable of holding three (3)
bicycles.
   B.   Sidewalks: Sidewalks shall be provided from the public streets to each
building within the complex.
   C.   Passenger Loading Areas: A passenger loading area in a location close
to the building entrances shall be provided for projects with one hundred (100)
or more parking spaces. The area devoted to loading and unloading of passengers
shall be equivalent to five (5) parking spaces.
   D.   Transit Facilities: Transit facilities, such as bus shelters, bus
pullouts, and bus pads, shall be provided if the director, in consultation with
local transit providers, determines they are needed to serve the development.
(Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.41.040: MODIFICATIONS:
The commission, or council, as appropriate, may modify all or part of the trip
reduction measures for new projects.
   A.   Findings: A modification may be approved only if the following findings
are made by the reviewing authority:
      1.   One or more of the measures are not applicable due to special
circumstances, including, but not limited to, the location or configuration of
the project, the implementation of existing trip reduction measures and
transportation demand strategies or other specific factors which make
implementation infeasible or reduce the effectiveness of the prescribed
measures.
      2.   An alternative trip reduction and transportation demand management
strategy will be implemented to reduce an equal amount of trips as would have
occurred as a result of imposition of the prescribed measures. Implementation
of the alternative strategy shall be a condition of project approval.
   B.   Credits: Credit may be granted for trip reduction and transportation
demand programs and facilities, as follows:
      1.   Existing trip reduction and transportation demand programs and
facilities in a development program may satisfy all or in part the requirements
of this section as pertaining to new construction within the complex, subject
to the approval of the commission or council, as appropriate. The amount of
credit given shall be determined through an assessment of how the existing
facilities would meet the requirements of this section if based on the gross
floor area of the entire complex.
      2.   The commission may determine that a reduction in the required number
of parking spaces for the proposed use or uses is acceptable because
implementation of the trip reduction and transportation demand management
measures would eliminate some of the demand for parking. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
CHAPTER 9.42
ACCESSORY SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS
SECTION:
9.42.010: Purpose
9.42.020: Applicability
9.42.030: Development Standards
9.42.040: Plan Approval Required
9.42.010: PURPOSE:
This chapter establishes standards and processes for accessory solar energy
systems in order to encourage the use of solar energy to reduce reliance on
nonrenewable energy sources. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.42.020: APPLICABILITY:
Solar energy systems shall be allowed as an accessory use in all zoning
classifications where structures of any sort are allowed, subject to certain
requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.42.030: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Height: Solar energy systems must meet the following height
requirements:
      1.   Ground or pole mounted solar energy systems shall not exceed twenty
feet (20') in height when oriented at maximum tilt.
   B.   Setback: Solar energy systems must meet the accessory structure setback
for the zoning district and primary land use associated with the lot on which
the system is located.
      1.   Ground Mounted Solar Energy Systems: Ground mounted solar energy
systems may not extend into the front, side and street side setbacks when
oriented at minimum design tilt.
   C.   Visibility: Solar energy systems shall be designed to blend into the
architecture of the building or be screened from routine view from public right
of ways other than alleys. The color of the solar collector is not required to
be consistent with other roofing materials.
      1.   Building Integrated Photovoltaic Systems: Building integrated
photovoltaic solar energy systems shall be allowed regardless of whether the
system is visible from the public right of way, provided the building component
in which the system is integrated meets all required setback, land use or
performance standards for the district in which the building is located.
      2.   Coverage: The surface area of pole or ground mount systems shall not
exceed half the building footprint of the principal structure.
   D.   Compliance With Building Codes: All solar energy systems shall comply
with building, electrical, and plumbing codes and shall also require a permit
from the building division.
(Ord. 254, 12-16-2014; amd. Ord. 317, 10-1-2024)
9.42.040: PLAN APPROVAL REQUIRED:
   A.   Plan Applications: Plan applications for solar energy systems shall be
accompanied by to-scale horizontal and vertical (elevation) drawings. The
drawings must show the location of the system on the building or on the
property for a ground mount system, including the property lines.
   B.   Plan Approval: Pole or ground mount solar energy systems shall be
subject to review and approval by the director. Plan approval does not indicate
compliance with building, electric, or plumbing codes.
(Ord. 254, 12-16-2014; amd. Ord. 317, 10-1-2024)
CHAPTER 9.43
ACCESSORY WIND ENERGY SYSTEMS
SECTION:
9.43.010: Purpose
9.43.020: Applicability
9.43.030: Development Standards
9.43.010: PURPOSE:
As allowed by Government Code section 65893, the purpose of this chapter is to
provide a uniform and comprehensive set of standards for the placement of
accessory wind energy systems on parcels in order to encourage the generation
of electricity for on site use, thereby reducing the consumption of electrical
power supplied by utility companies. These regulations are intended to ensure
that accessory wind energy systems are designed and located in a manner that
minimizes visual and safety impacts on the surrounding community. (Ord. 254,
12-16-2014)
9.43.020: APPLICABILITY:
This chapter provides development standards for accessory wind energy systems.
(Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.43.030: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Number Of Wind Energy Systems: Only one unit per parcel shall be
allowed with a minimum one acre lot size.
   B.   Maximum Tower Height: The tower height limitations in table 3-25 of
this section (maximum tower heights for accessory wind energy systems) shall
apply to all accessory wind energy systems, provided that the application for a
system includes evidence that the proposed height does not exceed the height
recommended by the manufacturer or distributor of the system.
      TABLE 3-25
      MAXIMUM TOWER HEIGHTS AND MINIMUM
      PARCEL SIZE FOR ACCESSORY WIND ENERGY SYSTEMS
 
Zoning District                            Minimum     Maximum
                                           Parcel Size Tower Height
OS   Open space                            1 acre      52.5 feet
R-HR Residential-hillside reserve district 1 acre      52.5 feet
RL   Rural living district                 1 acre      52.5 feet
RS   Single-family residential district    1 acre      52.5 feet
RM   Multi-family residential district     1 acre      52.5 feet
    All other land use districts          1 acre      52.5 feet
 
   C.   Setbacks: The minimum setback from any property line shall be equal to
the system height.
   D.   Climbing Apparatus: Climbing apparatus shall be located at least twelve
feet (12') above the ground, and the tower shall be designed to prevent
climbing within the first twelve feet (12').
   E.   Lighting: Tower structure lighting shall be prohibited unless required
by another code or regulation.
   F.   Noise: The noise performance standards in section
 9.34.080, "Noise", of this article 3, shall apply, except during short term
events (e.g., utility outages, windstorms, etc.).
   G.   Visual Effects: An accessory wind energy system shall not substantially
obstruct views of adjacent property owners.
   H.   Location: An accessory wind energy system shall not be placed or
constructed where otherwise prohibited by the terms of any easement.
   I.   Turbine Certification: The system's turbine shall be approved or shall
have been approved by the California energy commission or certified by a
national program (i.e., national electrical code (NEC), American National
Standards Institute (ANSI), and Underwriters Laboratories (UL)).
   J.   Engineering Analysis: The application shall include standard drawings
and an engineering analysis of the system's tower, showing compliance with the
California building code and certification by a professional mechanical,
structural, or civil engineer licensed by the state.
   K.   Compliance With Aviation Law: The system shall comply with all
applicable federal aviation administration requirements and the state
aeronautics act 1 .
   L.   Compliance With Electrical Code: The application shall include a line
drawing of the electrical components of the system detail to allow for a
determination that the installation conforms to the national electric code.
   M.   Reduction In On Site Electricity Consumption: The system shall be used
primarily to reduce on site consumption of electricity. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
 
Notes
1 1. PUC § 21001 et seq.
CHAPTER 9.44
WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES
SECTION:
9.44.010: Purpose
9.44.020: Applicability
9.44.030: Special Design Areas
9.44.040: Permitted Zoning Districts
9.44.050: Review Process
9.44.060: General Policies
9.44.070: Visual Impact And Screening Standards
9.44.080: Abandonment
9.44.010: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide site selection and general standards
applicable to wireless communications facilities, as well as special design
standards for town entry points, scenic corridors, and buffer areas in order to
preserve the town's desert rural neighborhood character and protect and enhance
aesthetic and scenic values reflecting the community's image and character
consistent with the goals and policies of the general plan. (Ord. 254, 12-16-
2014)
9.44.020: APPLICABILITY:
This chapter identifies regulations applicable townwide for the location,
design, and screening of all wireless communication facilities, including
satellite, cellular, paging, and other wireless communication technologies.
(Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.44.030: SPECIAL DESIGN AREAS:
Special design areas shall be located within five thousand feet (5,000') on
both sides of State Highways 62 and 247, Joshua Lane, and Pioneertown Road or
within five hundred feet (500') of property zoned for residential units with a
minimum lot size of one acre or less. Additional special landscape and
architectural treatments shall be given to major entry points of the town.
(Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.44.040: PERMITTED ZONING DISTRICTS:
Wireless communications facilities may be permitted in all zoning districts,
subject to the reviews specified by article 2, "Zoning Districts And
Development Standards", of this title and further defined in section
9.44.050, "Review Process", of this chapter. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.44.050: REVIEW PROCESS:
   A.   Wireless communications facilities within special design areas,
identified in section
 9.44.030, "Special Design Areas", of this chapter, except those located on
existing structures and natural features in compliance with section
 9.44.060, "General Policies", of this chapter shall be subject to a
conditional use permit.
   B.   Wireless communication facilities greater than thirty feet (30') in
height shall be subject to a conditional use permit.
   C.   Wireless communication facilities located on existing structures and
natural features less than thirty feet (30') in height shall be subject to a
land use compliance review. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.44.060: GENERAL POLICIES:
   A.   General: Community and neighborhood visual concerns should be
considered paramount in the consideration of and selection of wireless
communications facilities sites. These concerns should be evaluated in
consideration of the goals, policies, and programs of the general plan and the
standards set forth in this section.
   B.   Site Selection And General Standards: The following standards shall
apply to all wireless communications facilities:
      1.   Within any land use district, wireless communications facilities
sites should be located in the following order of preference:
         a.   On existing structures such as buildings, communication towers,
water towers, or similar structures. Antennas should be located so that they do
not extend above the height or profile of the structure on which they are
located. When located on a building or structure, antennas shall be painted and
texturized to match the existing building or structure.
         b.   On natural features or topography, located so that structures or
antennas, other than whip antennas, do not project above the ridgeline or into
the skyline for both community and neighborhood views.
         c.   Outside the special design areas identified in section
 9.44.030, "Special Design Areas", of this chapter.
         d.   Sites otherwise located shall comply with the visual impact and
screening requirements in section
9.44.070, "Visual Impact And Screening Standards", of this chapter.
      2.   Facilities, including any towers and equipment buildings, should be
located to avoid the dominant silhouette on ridgelines. Preservation of
viewsheds of surrounding residential development should also be considered in
the location and design of facilities.
      3.   Facilities greater than thirty feet (30') in height shall be subject
to commission review and approval and may be required to provide additional
visual mitigation to disguise their appearance to look like a tree, natural
feature, building, or other structure. Such designs shall be in scale with the
surrounding development or landscaping.
      4.   Facilities, including equipment buildings, shall be architecturally
and visually compatible; including scale, size, and use of similar colors and
building materials, with surrounding existing buildings, structures, and uses
in the vicinity.
      5.   Antennas shall not be light reflective and shall not have any sign
copy on them, nor shall they be illuminated.
      6.   Where the result of adding a second facility on an existing tower or
monopole is of a less visual impact than what exists and sufficient vertical
separation can be provided, sites should be collocated with other wireless
communication providers.
      7.   All sites shall be landscaped or treated with a soil binder to
prevent erosion, including wind erosion.
      8.   Applicants for wireless communications facilities shall submit a
certification from an engineer qualified in radio frequency radiation that the
proposed facility complies with the federal communications commission (FCC)
guidelines for evaluating the environmental effects of radio frequency
radiation and complies with the standards for maximum emissions of radio
frequency radiation of the American National Standards Institute (ANSI)/
Institute Of Electronics And Electrical Engineers (IEEE) C95.1-1992 and the
National Council On Radiation Protection And Measurement (NCRP).
      9.   A visual simulation and detailed viewshed analyses shall be prepared
to demonstrate the compatibility of the proposal with the standards and
criteria of this chapter and with surrounding development and viewsheds.
      10.   Site location and development shall preserve the preexisting
vegetation, topography, and character of the site as much as possible.
      11.   Security fencing shall be kept to a minimum and shall be colored or
shall be of a design that blends into the character of the existing
environment.
      12.   Access roads shall be limited to twelve feet (12') in width except
where the fire department requires a greater width. The access road may be
paved unless a gravel or other nonpaved surface is approved by the town.
      13.   Any new parking areas constructed shall be no larger than to
accommodate two (2) parking spaces and maneuvering area.
      14.   The proposed antenna facility will operate in compliance with all
applicable federal safety regulations for such facilities in that the applicant
provides documentation to show that their facility will operate below such
standards and conditions have been included requiring testing upon installation
and operation on the facility.
      15.   New projects shall be conditioned to ensure the facilities do not
cause interference with other utilities or communication infrastructure or
services.
      16.   Existing facilities shall not cause interference or disturbance
with other utilities or communication infrastructure or services. If it is
determined that existing facilities do cause such interference, operations
shall cease until repairs are made or further clearance is granted. (Ord. 254,
12-16-2014)
9.44.070: VISUAL IMPACT AND SCREENING STANDARDS:
Facilities within special design areas shall comply with the following
standards, in addition to the policies in section
 9.44.060, "General Policies", of this chapter:
   A.   Within special design areas, antennas shall be located on existing
buildings, communication towers, water towers, or similar structures; on
natural features or topography; or shall be disguised or screened in a manner
compatible with the town's desert rural neighborhood character.
   B.   Facilities should be located so that they do not extend above the
height or profile of the structure on which they are located. When located on a
building or structure, antennas shall be painted and texturized to match the
existing building or structure.
   C.   Structures or antennas located on natural features or topography, other
than whip antennas, should not project above the ridgeline, or into the skyline
for both community and neighborhood views. Freestanding monopole and/or lattice
towers shall be designed to disguise their appearance, to look like a tree,
natural feature, building, or other structure subject to the approval of the
commission. Such designs shall be in scale with surrounding development or
landscaping.
   D.   Freestanding monopole and/or lattice towers shall have a minimum
setback of four hundred fifty feet (450') from any property zoned for
residential units with a minimum lot size of one acre or less. Those facilities
designed to disguise their appearance in accordance with subsection C of this
section shall have a minimum setback of two hundred seventy five feet (275')
from any property zoned for residential units with a minimum lot size of one
acre or less. Non monopole or lattice tower facilities may be allowed a reduced
setback based upon height, dimensions, relation to the built environment or
other similar factors.
   E.   Sites shall be landscaped to screen buildings, equipment and the base
of any towers from surrounding land uses.
   F.   Location of equipment necessary to serve the wireless facility may be
required to be located away from residentially designated properties and/or
provide additional design standards to avoid potential impacts to surrounding
properties. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.44.080: ABANDONMENT:
Lawfully erected wireless communication facilities that are abandoned shall be
removed promptly from the premises, and no later than ninety (90) days after
the discontinuance of use. A wireless communication facility is considered
abandoned if it no longer provides wireless communication service. In the case
of multiple operators sharing use of a single tower, this provision shall not
become effective until all users cease operation. Such removal shall be in
accordance with proper health and safety requirements. A written notice of the
determination of abandonment shall be sent or delivered to the operator of the
wireless communication facility. The operator shall have ninety (90) days to
remove the facility or provide the director with evidence that the use has not
been discontinued. All abandoned facilities not removed within the ninety (90)
day period shall be in violation of this code and operators of the facility and
the owners of the property shall be subject to penalties in accordance with
this code. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
CHAPTER 9.45
CEMETERIES
SECTION:
9.45.010: Purpose
9.45.020: Applicability
9.45.030: Findings
9.45.040: Requirements
9.45.010: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide standards for publicly and privately
owned and operated cemeteries. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.45.020: APPLICABILITY:
The standards in this chapter shall apply to cemeteries where allowed in
compliance with the provisions of article 2, "Zoning Districts And Development
Standards", of this title. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.45.030: FINDINGS:
The commission when approving a conditional use permit for the establishment or
expansion of a cemetery, including pet cemeteries, shall find and justify the
following to be true:
   A.   The present or probable population density in the area contiguous to
said proposed cemetery or extension of an existing cemetery is not adversely
affected by the cemetery development.
   B.   The proposed cemetery or extension of an existing cemetery does not
interfere with the free movement of traffic, or the movement of police,
ambulance, or fire equipment for the protection of the lives and property of
the public.
   C.   A final map is required to be submitted to the town engineer for review
and recordation as specified by and subject to section
9.92.050 of this title.
   D.   The proposed cemetery or expansion complies with the California Health
And Safety Code, division 8. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.45.040: REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   In addition to any conditions necessary to ensure protection of public
health, safety, and general welfare, the town may require adequate screening or
fencing of the property reserved for cemetery purposes in order to clarify the
ultimate boundaries of said cemetery.
   B.   An approved conditional use permit or revised conditional use permit
shall be required for the establishment of cemetery boundaries or the expansion
of previously approved boundaries. Such approvals shall identify all proposed
structures and major grading activities.
   C.   A conditional use permit shall not be required for normal on site
development of gravesites within previously approved or established cemeteries
that have recorded a map in compliance with
chapter 9.92 of this title. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
CHAPTER 9.46
RENEWABLE ENERGY GENERATION FACILITIES
SECTION:
9.46.010: Purpose
9.46.020: Prohibited
9.46.010: PURPOSE:
The provisions of this chapter, as determined by the council, are intended to
be in the best interest of the town for the public health, safety and welfare
of the community through implementation of the general plan through this
chapter. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.46.020: PROHIBITED:
Commercial solar energy and wind energy facilities shall be a prohibited use in
all land use districts within the town. No conditional use permit, site plan
review, building permit or other entitlement for use shall be accepted,
processed, approved or issued for the establishment of a renewable energy
generation facility. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
CHAPTER 9.47
DENSITY BONUS
SECTION:
9.47.010: Definitions
9.47.020: General Density Bonus Provisions
9.47.030: Incentives And Concessions
9.47.040: Waiver Of Reduction Of Development Standards
9.47.050: Calculation Of Density Bonus
9.47.060: Additional Density Bonus Through Donation Of Land
9.47.070: Additional Density Bonus Or Concession Or Incentive Through Provision
Of Childcare Facility
9.47.080: Town's Discretion In Granting Density Bonus
9.47.090: Parking Requirements
9.47.010: DEFINITIONS:
For purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply:
AFFORDABLE   Has the definition set forth in California Health And Safety Code section
HOUSING      50052.5.
COST:
AFFORDABLE   Has the definition set forth in California Health And Safety Code section
RENT:        50053.
CHILDCARE    A facility other than a family daycare home, including, but not limited to,
FACILITY:    infant centers, preschools, extended daycare facilities, and school age
             childcare centers.
COMMON
INTEREST     Has the definition set forth in California Civil Code section 1351.
DEVELOPMENT:
             Any of the following:
             1.   A reduction in site development standards or a modification of zoning code
             requirements or architectural design requirements that exceed the minimum
             building standards approved by the California building standards commission, as
             provided in part 2.5 1 , of division 13 of the Health And Safety Code,
             including, but not limited to, a reduction in setback and square footage
             requirements, and in the ratio of vehicular parking spaces that would otherwise
             be required, that results in identifiable, financially sufficient, and actual
CONCESSION   cost reductions.
OR           2.   Approval of mixed use zoning in conjunction with a housing project, if
INCENTIVE:   commercial, office, industrial or other land uses will reduce the cost of a
             housing development, and if the commercial, office, industrial or other land
             uses are compatible with the housing project and the existing or planned
             development in the area where the proposed housing project will be located.
             3.   Other regulatory incentives or concessions proposed by the applicant or
             the town that result in identifiable, financially sufficient and actual cost
             reductions.
             This definition does not limit or require the provision of direct financial
             incentives for a housing development, including the provision of publicly owned
             land, by the town or the waiver of fees or dedication requirements.
DENSITY      A density increase over the otherwise maximum allowable residential density
BONUS:       under the applicable zoning code provisions and the land use element of the
             general plan as of the date of application by the applicant to the town.
             The site or construction condition, including, but not limited to, a height
             limitation, a setback requirement, a floor area ratio, an onsite open-space
             requirement, a minimum lot area per unit requirement, or a parking ratio that
DEVELOPMENT  applies to a residential development pursuant to any ordinance, general plan
STANDARD:    element, specific plan, charter, or other local condition, law, policy,
             resolution, or regulation that is adopted by the local government or that is
             enacted by the local government's electorate exercising its local initiative or
             referendum power, whether that power is derived from the California
             Constitution, statute, or the charter or ordinances of the local government.
             A development project for five (5) or more residential units. "Housing
HOUSING      development" also includes a subdivision or common interest development, or the
DEVELOPMENT: substantial rehabilitation of an existing multi-family dwelling where the
             result of the rehabilitation would be a net increase in the number of
             residential units.
LOWER INCOME Has the definition set forth in California Health And Safety Code section
HOUSEHOLDS:  50079.5.
MAXIMUM      The density allowed under the zoning code, or if a range of density is
ALLOWABLE    permitted, the maximum allowable density for the specific zoning range
RESIDENTIAL  applicable to the project.
DENSITY:
MODERATE     Has the definition for "persons or families of moderate income" set forth in
INCOME       California Health And Safety Code section 50093(b).
HOUSEHOLDS:
MULTI-FAMILY Has the definition set forth in California Government Code section 65863.4(d).
DWELLING:
SENIOR
CITIZEN      Has the definition set forth in California Civil Code section 51.3.
HOUSING
DEVELOPMENT:
SPECIFIC,    Has the definition set forth in California Government Code section 65589.5(j)
ADVERSE      (1).
IMPACT:
VERY LOW     Has the definition set forth in California Health And Safety Code section
INCOME       50105.
HOUSEHOLDS:
 
(Ord. 254, 12-16-2014; amd. Ord. 320, 11-5-2024)
 
Notes
1 1. The state building code commencing with HSC 1890..
9.47.020: GENERAL DENSITY BONUS PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application: Any person that desires a density bonus shall make an
application on a form approved by the director at the time of submitting an
entitlement application for the housing development for which a density bonus
is requested. The density bonus provided by this chapter only applies to
housing developments consisting of five (5) or more dwelling units.
   B.   Incentives And Concessions: When an applicant seeks a density bonus for
a housing development or for the donation of land for housing within the town,
the town shall provide the applicant incentives or concessions for the
production of housing units and childcare facilities as provided in this
chapter.
   C.   Available Density Bonus Options: The planning commission will grant one
density bonus, the amount of which will be as specified in section
9.47.050, "Calculation Of Density Bonus", of this chapter and incentives or
concessions as described in section
9.47.030, "Incentives And Concessions", of this chapter when an applicant for a
housing development seeks and agrees to construct a housing development,
excluding any units permitted by the density bonus awarded pursuant to this
chapter, that will contain at least one of the following:
      1.   Ten percent (10%) of the total units of a housing development for
rental or sale to lower income households, as defined in Section 50079.5 of the
Health and Safety Code.
      2.   Five percent (5%) of the total units of a housing development for
rental or sale to very low income households, as defined in Section 50105 of
the Health and Safety Code.
      3.   A senior citizen housing development, as defined in Sections 51.3
and 51.12 of the Civil Code, or a mobile home park that limits residency based
on age requirements for housing for older persons pursuant to Section 798.76 or
799.5 of the Civil Code.
      4.   Ten percent (10%) of the total dwelling units of a housing
development are for rental or sale to persons and families of moderate income,
as defined in Section 50093 of the Health and Safety Code.
      5.   Ten percent (10%) of the total units of a housing development for
transitional foster youth, as defined in Section 66025.9 of the Education Code,
disabled veterans, as defined in Section 18541, or homeless persons, as defined
in the federal McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. Sec. 11301 et
seq.). The units described in this subparagraph shall be subject to a recorded
affordability restriction of fifty five (55) years and shall be provided at the
same affordability level as very low income units.
      6.   Twenty percent (20%) of the total units for lower income students in
a student housing development that meets the following requirements:
      7.   All units in the student housing development will be used
exclusively for undergraduate, graduate, or professional students enrolled full
time at an institution of higher education accredited by the Western
Association of Schools and Colleges or the Accrediting Commission for Community
and Junior Colleges. In order to be eligible under this subclause, the
developer shall, as a condition of receiving a certificate of occupancy,
provide evidence to the city, county, or city and county that the developer has
entered into an operating agreement or master lease with one or more
institutions of higher education for the institution or institutions to occupy
all units of the student housing development with students from that
institution or institutions. An operating agreement or master lease entered
into pursuant to this subclause is not violated or breached if, in any
subsequent year, there are not sufficient students enrolled in an institution
of higher education to fill all units in the student housing development.
      8.   The applicable twenty percent (20%) units will be used for lower
income students.
      9.   The rent provided in the applicable units of the development for
lower income students shall be calculated at thirty percent (30%) of sixty five
percent (65%) of the area median income for a single-room occupancy unit type.
      10.   The development will provide priority for the applicable affordable
units for lower income students experiencing homelessness. A homeless service
provider, as defined in paragraph (3) of subdivision (e) of Section 103577 of
the Health and Safety Code, or institution of higher education that has
knowledge of a person's homeless status may verify a person's status as
homeless for purposes of this subsection.
      11.   For purposes of calculating a density bonus granted pursuant to
this subsection, the term "unit" as used in this Section means one rental bed
and its pro rata share of associated common area facilities. The units
described in this subsection shall be subject to a recorded affordability
restriction of fifty five (55) years.
      12.   One hundred percent (100%) of all units in the development,
including total units and density bonus units, but exclusive of a manager's
unit or units, are for lower income households, as defined by Section 50079.5
of the Health and Safety Code, except that up to twenty percent (20%) of the
units in the development, including total units and density bonus units, may be
for moderate-income households, as defined in Section 50053 of the Health and
Safety Code.
      As used in this subsection, "total units" or "a total dwelling unit" does
not include units permitted by a density bonus awarded pursuant to this
chapter.
   D.   Applicant's Election Of Basis For Bonus: For purposes of calculating
the amount of the density bonus pursuant to section 9.47.050 of this chapter,
the applicant who requests a density bonus pursuant to this section shall elect
whether the bonus will be awarded on the basis of subsection C1 through C12 of
this section.
   E.   Continued Affordability:
      1.   An applicant shall agree to the continued affordability of all low
and very low income units that qualified the applicant for the award of the
density bonus for fifty-five (55) years or a longer period of time if required
by any applicable construction or mortgage financing assistance program,
mortgage insurance program, or rental subsidy program. Rents for the lower
income density bonus units shall be set at an affordable rent. Owner occupied
units shall be available at an affordable housing cost.
      2.   An applicant shall agree that the initial and subsequent occupants
of the moderate income units that are directly related to the receipt of the
density bonus in a common interest development are moderate income households
and that the units are offered at an affordable housing cost for the required
affordability period.
(Ord. 254, 12-16-2014; amd. Ord. 320, 11-5-2024)
9.47.030: INCENTIVES AND CONCESSIONS:
   A.   An applicant for a density bonus pursuant to section
9.47.020 of this chapter may submit a proposal for the specific incentives or
concessions that the applicant requests pursuant to this chapter.
   B.   Subject to subsection C of this section, the applicant will receive the
following number of incentives or concessions:
      1.   One incentive or concession for projects that include at least ten
percent (10%) of the total units for lower income households, at least five
percent (5%) for very low income households, or at least ten percent (10%) for
moderate income households in a common interest development.
      2.   Two (2) incentives or concessions for projects that include at least
seventeen percent (17%) of the total units for lower income households, at
least ten percent (10%) for very low income households, or at least twenty
percent (20%) for moderate income households in a common development.
      3.   Three (3) incentives or concessions for projects that include at
least twenty-four percent (24%) of the total units for lower income households,
at least fifteen percent (15%) for very low income households, or at least
thirty percent (30%) for moderate income households in a common interest
development.
      4.   Five (5) incentives or concessions if the project includes one
hundred percent (100%) affordable housing units, excluding the manager's unit,
except that up to twenty percent (20%) of the units in the development,
including total units and density bonus units, may be for moderate-income
households, as defined in Section 50053 of the Health and Safety Code. If the
project is located within one-half mile of a major transit stop or is located
in a very low vehicle travel area in a designated county, the applicant shall
also receive a height increase of up to three (3) additional stories, or thirty
three feet (33').
      5.   One (1) incentive or concession for projects that include at least
twenty percent (20%) of the total units for lower income students in a student
housing development.
      6.   Four (4) incentives or concessions for projects that include at
least sixteen percent (16%) of the units for very low income households or at
least forty-five percent (45%) for persons and families of moderate income in a
development in which the units are for sale.
   C.   The planning commission shall grant the concession or incentive
requested by the applicant, unless it makes a written finding, based upon
substantial evidence, that:
      1.   The concession or incentive is not required in order to provide for
affordable housing costs or for rents for the targeted units to be set as
specified in subsection
9.47.020E of this chapter.
      2.   The concession or incentive would have a specific, adverse impact
upon public health and safety, or the physical environment, or on any real
property listed in the California register of historical resources, and there
is no feasible method to satisfactorily mitigate or avoid the specific adverse
impact without rendering the development unaffordable to low and moderate
income households; or
      3.   The concession or improvement would be contrary to state or federal
law.
(Ord. 254, 12-16-2014; amd. Ord. 320, 11-5-2024)
9.47.040: WAIVER OR REDUCTION OF DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   An applicant may submit to the town a proposal for the waiver or
reduction of development standards that the applicant believes will have the
effect of physically precluding the construction of a housing development that
meets the criteria of subsection
9.47.020C of this chapter at the densities or with the concessions or
incentives permitted by this chapter, and may request a meeting with the
director. Such proposal may not increase the number of incentives or
concessions that the applicant is entitled to under section
9.47.030 of this chapter.
   B.   The planning commission shall waive or reduce the development standard
requested by the applicant, unless it makes a written finding, based upon
substantial evidence, that:
      1.   The waiver or reduction would have a specific, adverse impact upon
public health and safety, or the physical environment, or on any real property
listed in California register of historical resources, and there is no feasible
method to satisfactorily mitigate or avoid the specific adverse impact; or
      2.   The waiver or reduction would be contrary to state or federal law.
(Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.47.050: CALCULATION OF DENSITY BONUS:
   A.   The applicant may elect to accept a lesser percentage of density bonus.
   B.   The amount of density bonus to which the applicant is entitled will
vary according to the amount by which the percentage of affordable housing
units exceeds the percentage established in subsection
9.47.020C of this chapter.
   C.   For housing developments meeting the criteria of subsection
9.47.020C1 of this chapter, the density bonus will be calculated as follows:
Percentage Low Income Units Percentage Density Bonus
Percentage Low Income Units Percentage Density Bonus
10                          20
11                          21.5
12                          23
13                          24.5
14                          26
15                          27.5
16                          29
17                          30.5
18                          32
19                          33.5
20                          35
21                          38.75
22                          42.5
23                          46.25
24                          50
 
   D.   For housing developments meeting the criteria of subsection
9.47.020C2 of this chapter, the density bonus will be calculated as follows:
Percentage Very Low Income Units Percentage Density Bonus
Percentage Very Low Income Units Percentage Density Bonus
5                                20
6                                22.5
7                                25
8                                27.5
9                                30
10                               32.5
11                               35
12                               38.75
13                               42.5
14                               46.25
15                               50
 
   E.   For housing developments meeting the criteria of subsection
9.47.020C4 of this chapter, as senior housing developments, the density bonus
will be twenty percent (20%).
   F.   For housing developments meeting the criteria of subsection
9.47.020C3 of this chapter, the density bonus will be calculated as follows:
Percentage Moderate Income Units Percentage Density Bonus
Percentage Moderate Income Units Percentage Density Bonus
10                               5
11                               6
12                               7
13                               8
14                               9
15                               10
16                               11
17                               12
18                               13
19                               14
20                               15
21                               16
22                               17
23                               18
24                               19
25                               20
26                               21
27                               22
28                               23
29                               24
30                               25
31                               26
32                               27
33                               28
34                               29
35                               30
36                               31
37                               32
38                               33
39                               34
40                               35
41                               38.75
42                               42.5
43                               46.25
44                               50
 
   G.   All density calculations resulting in fractional units will be rounded
up to the next whole number. The granting of a density bonus will not be
interpreted, in and of itself, to require a general plan amendment, zoning
change or other discretionary approval.
(Ord. 254, 12-16-2014; amd. Ord. 320, 11-5-2024)
9.47.060: ADDITIONAL DENSITY BONUS THROUGH DONATION OF LAND:
When an applicant for a tentative subdivision map, parcel map, or other
residential development approval donates land to the town, as provided for in
this section, the applicant will be entitled to a fifteen percent (15%)
increase above the otherwise maximum allowable residential density under the
applicable zoning and the land use element of the general plan for the entire
development, as follows:
Percentage Very Low Income Percentage Density Bonus
Percentage Very Low Income Percentage Density Bonus
10                         15
11                         16
12                         17
13                         18
14                         19
15                         20
16                         21
17                         22
18                         23
19                         24
20                         25
21                         26
22                         27
23                         28
24                         29
25                         30
26                         31
27                         32
28                         33
29                         34
30                         35
 
   A.   This increase will be in addition to any increase in density mandated
by subsection
9.47.020C of this chapter.
      1.   All density calculations resulting in fractional units will be
rounded up to the next whole number.
      2.   Nothing in this section will be construed to enlarge or diminish the
authority of the town to require a developer to donate land as a condition of
development.
   B.   An applicant will be eligible for the increased density bonus described
in this section if all of the following conditions are met:
      1.   The applicant donates and transfers the land no later than the date
of approval of the final subdivision map or parcel map or residential
development application.
      2.   The developable acreage and zoning classification of the land being
transferred are sufficient to permit construction of units affordable to very
low income households, in an amount not less than ten percent (10%) of the
number of residential units of the proposed development.
      3.   The transferred land is at least one acre in size or of sufficient
size to permit development of at least forty (40) units, has the appropriate
general plan designation, is appropriately zoned for development as affordable
housing, and is or will be served by adequate public facilities and
infrastructure.
         a.   The land shall have appropriate zoning and development standards
to make the development of the affordable units feasible.
         b.   No later than the date of approval of the final subdivision map,
parcel map, or of the residential development, the transferred land shall have
all the permits and approvals, other than building permits, necessary for the
development of the very low income housing units on the transferred land,
except that the local government may subject the proposed development to
subsequent design review, to the extent authorized by California Government
Code section 65583.2(i), if the design is not reviewed by the town prior to the
time of transfer.
      4.   The transferred land and the affordable units will be subject to a
deed restriction ensuring continued affordability of the units consistent with
subsections
 9.47.020E1 and E2 of this chapter, which restriction will be recorded on the
property at the time of transfer.
      5.   The land is transferred to the town or to a housing developer
approved by the town. The town may require the applicant to identify and
transfer the land to such housing developer.
      6.   The transferred land shall be within the boundary of the proposed
development or, if the town agrees, within one-fourth (1/4) mile of the
boundary of the proposed development. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.47.070: ADDITIONAL DENSITY BONUS OR CONCESSION OR INCENTIVE THROUGH PROVISION
OF CHILDCARE FACILITY:
   A.   When an applicant proposes to construct a housing development that
conforms to the requirements of subsection
9.47.020C of this chapter and includes a childcare facility that will be
located on the premises of, as part of, or adjacent to, the project, the
planning commission shall grant either of the following:
      1.   An additional density bonus that is an amount of square feet of
residential space that is equal to or greater than the amount of square feet in
the childcare facility.
      2.   An additional concession or incentive that contributes significantly
to the economic feasibility of the construction of the childcare facility.
   B.   The planning commission shall require, as a condition of approving the
housing development, that the following occur:
      1.   The childcare facility shall remain in operation for a period of
time that is as long as or longer than the period of time during which the
density bonus units are required to remain affordable pursuant to subsection
9.47.020E of this chapter.
      2.   Of the children who attend the childcare facility, the children of
very low income households, lower income households, or moderate income
households, shall equal a percentage that is equal to or greater than the
percentage of dwelling units that are required for very low income households,
lower income households, or moderate income households pursuant to subsection
9.47.020C of this chapter.
   C.   Notwithstanding any requirement of this section, the planning
commission is not required to provide a density bonus or concession for a
childcare facility if it finds, based upon substantial evidence, that the
community has adequate childcare facilities.
   D.   For the purpose of calculating a density bonus, the residential units
do not have to be based upon individual subdivision maps or parcels. The
density bonus is permitted in geographic areas of the housing developments.
   E.   The granting of a concession or incentive will not be interpreted, in
and of itself, to require a general plan amendment, zoning change, or other
discretionary approval. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.47.080: TOWN'S DISCRETION IN GRANTING DENSITY BONUS:
Nothing in this chapter will be construed to prohibit the planning commission
from granting a density bonus greater than what is described in this chapter
for a development that meets the requirements of this chapter, or from granting
a proportionately lower density bonus than what is required by this chapter for
developments that do not meet the requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 254, 12-
16-2014)
9.47.090: PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Upon the request of the applicant, the town will not require a
vehicular parking ratio, inclusive of handicapped and guest parking, of a
development meeting the criteria of subsection
9.47.020C of this chapter that exceeds the following ratios:
      1.   Zero to one bedroom: One on site parking space.
      2.   Two (2) to three (3) bedrooms: Two (2) on site parking spaces.
      3.   Four (4) and more bedrooms: Two and one-half (21/2) parking spaces.
   B.   If the total number of parking spaces required for a development is
other than a whole number, the number will be rounded up to the next whole
number. For purposes of this section, a development may provide "on site
parking" through tandem parking or uncovered parking, but not through on street
parking.
   C.   This section applies to a development that meets the requirements of
subsection
 9.47.020C of this chapter, but only at the request of the applicant. An
applicant may request additional parking incentives or concessions beyond those
provided in this chapter, subject to section
9.47.030 of this chapter. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
CHAPTER 9.48
EMERGENCY TRANSITIONAL HOUSING AND SINGLE ROOM OCCUPANCY UNITS
SECTION:
9.48.010: Permitted Land Uses
9.48.020: Emergency Transitional Housing
9.48.030: Single Room Occupancy Units
9.48.010: PERMITTED LAND USES:
Emergency Transitional Housing is permitted in the Industrial zoning district
by right.
Supportive housing that is provided in single family dwellings, multi-family
dwelling units, residential care facilities, or boarding house uses, shall be
permitted, conditionally permitted, or prohibited in the same manner as the
other single-family dwelling, multi-family dwelling units, residential care
facilities, or boarding house uses under this code.
Supportive housing that is provided in all zoning districts that allow multi-
family dwelling units or mixed-use development shall be allowed by right if the
proposed housing development satisfies the requirements of Government Code
Section 65651 et seq.
A Low Barrier Navigation Center development is a use by right in areas zoned
for mixed use and nonresidential zones permitting multifamily uses, provided
that it meets the requirements specified in this section.
Single Room Occupancy Units are permitted in the Industrial, General
Commercial, Mixed Use Commercial, and Neighborhood Commercial zoning districts
subject to a Conditional Use Permit.
In the event of a conflict between the provisions of this section and the
provisions of a land use zoning district, the provisions of this section shall
prevail and control.
(Ord. 254, 12-16-2014; amd. Ord. 296, - - ; Ord. 320, 11-5-2024)
9.48.020: EMERGENCY TRANSITIONAL HOUSING:
   A.   This section establishes standards for Emergency Transitional Housing
as defined in subdivision (e) of Section 50801 of the Health and Safety Code,
which are in compliance with state law, including the limitations on the Town’s
authority to regulate these facilities in zones without a discretionary
approval.
   B.   These standards apply in addition to all other applicable provisions of
this Chapter and any requirements imposed by the State Department of Housing
and Community Development through its oversight.
      1.   The maximum number of beds or persons to be served nightly shall be
fifty (50), and shall not exceed one per one hundred twenty five (125) square
feet of floor area.
      2.   The maximum length of stay for any one individual shall not exceed
one hundred eighty (180) days in a three hundred sixty five (365) day period.
      3.   Off street parking shall be provided at a rate of one parking space
for every four (4) beds and one parking space for each employee on shift.
      4.   Exterior and interior waiting and client intake areas shall be
provided on site to accommodate waiting clients and to prevent queuing into any
public rights of way. An exterior waiting area shall be physically separated
and visually screened from the public right of way.
      5.   An on-site manager shall be present at all times, twenty four (24)
hours per day, seven (7) days per week. The onsite manager shall not be an
individual or individuals who utilize the homeless beds or services and shall
maintain their own residence off site.
      6.   Lighting shall be provided for all entrances, parking lots, pathways
and public areas.
      7.   Stays at the Emergency Shelter facility shall be limited to between
the hours of five o'clock (5:00) P.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M.
      8.   The shelter operator shall regularly patrol the area surrounding the
shelter site during hours that the shelter is in operation to ensure that
homeless persons who have been denied access are not congregating in the
neighborhood.
      9.   Each shelter shall be operated by a responsible agency or
organization, with experience in managing and/or providing social services.
      10.   Staff and services shall be provided to assist residents to obtain
permanent shelter and provide referral information and/or services for health
or mental health services, educational opportunities, job training/employment
and life skills training.
      11.   There shall be at least one on-site supervisor per twenty five (25)
persons during the hours of operation.
      12.   Operators shall maintain a log of occupants which may be reviewed
by the Town at any time to assure compliance with these regulations and
standards.
      13.   Security systems shall be installed prior to issuance of a
certificate of occupancy. Security systems shall include an alarm system to
detect unrecorded or unauthorized entry or exiting of a facility, and a camera
surveillance system which shall be installed in locations to the satisfaction
of the Chief of Police.
      14.   The outdoor areas and yards of shelters and surrounding areas shall
be kept clean and free of debris, litter, and storage of personal effects shall
not be allowed.
   C.   Transitional Housing is a development with buildings configured as
rental housing developments, but operated under program requirements that call
for the termination of assistance and recirculation of the assisted unit to
another eligible program recipient at some predetermined future point in time,
which shall be no less than six months. Transitional housing that is provided
in single family dwelling, multi-family dwelling units, residential care
facilities or boarding house uses, shall be permitted, conditionally permitted
or prohibited in the same manner as the other single family dwelling, multi-
family dwelling units, residential care facilities, or boarding house uses
under this code.
   D.   Supporting housing is housing with no limit on length of stay, that is
occupied by the target population, and that is linked to onsite or offsite
services that assist the supportive housing resident in retaining the housing,
improving his or her health status, and maximizing his or her ability to live
and, when possible, work in the community. Supportive housing that is provided
in single-family dwellings, multi-family dwelling units, residential care
facilities, or boarding house uses, shall be permitted, conditionally
permitted, or prohibited in the same manner as the other single family
dwelling, multi-family dwelling units, residential care facilities, or boarding
house uses under this code. Supportive housing that is provided in all zoning
districts that allow multi-family dwelling units or mixed-use development shall
be allowed by right if the proposed housing development satisfies the
requirements of Government Code Section 65651 et seq.
   E.   This section establishes standards for Low Barrier Navigation Centers
as defined in Government Code Section 65660 et seq.
 
COORDINATED A centralized or coordinated assessment system developed pursuant to Section 576.400(d)
ENTRY       or Section 578.7(a)(8), as applicable, of Title 24 of the Code of Federal Regulations,
SYSTEM:     as those sections read on January 1, 2020, and any related requirements, designed to
            coordinate program participant intake, assessment, and referrals.
            Best practices to reduce barriers to entry, and may include, but is not limited to, the
            following:
               1.   The presence of partners if it is not a population-specific site, such as for
LOW         survivors of domestic violence or sexual assault, women, or youth.
BARRIER:       2.   Pets.
               3.   The storage of possessions.
               4.   Privacy, such as partitions around beds in a dormitory setting or in larger
            rooms containing more than two beds, or private rooms.
            A Housing First, low-barrier, service-enriched shelter focused on moving people into
            permanent housing that provides temporary living facilities while case managers connect
            individuals experiencing homelessness to income, public benefits, health services,
            shelter, and housing.
               A Low Barrier Navigation Center development is a use by right in areas zoned for
            mixed use and nonresidential zones permitting multifamily uses, provided that it meets
            the following requirements:
                  a.   It offers services to connect people to permanent housing through a services
            plan that identifies services staffing.
                  b.   It is linked to a coordinated entry system, so that staff in the interim
LOW BARRIER facility or staff who colocate in the facility may conduct assessments and provide
NAVIGATION  services to connect people to permanent housing.
CENTER:           c.   It complies with Chapter 6.5 (commencing with Section 8255) of Division 8 of
            the Welfare and Institutions Code.
                  d.   It has a system for entering information regarding client stays, client
            demographics, client income, and exit destination through the local Homeless Management
            Information System as defined by Section 578.3 of Title 24 of the Code of Federal
            Regulations.
               Within thirty (30) days of receipt of an application for a Low Barrier Navigation
            Center development, the Town shall notify a developer whether the developer's
            application is complete pursuant to Section 65943. Within sixty (60) days of receipt of
            a completed application for a Low Barrier Navigation Center development, the Town shall
            act upon its review of the application.
 
(Ord. 254, 12-16-2014; amd. Ord. 296, - - ; Ord. 320, 11-5-2024)
9.48.030: SINGLE ROOM OCCUPANCY UNITS:
   A.   Single Room Occupancy Purpose and Intent: It is the purpose and intent
of this section to regulate the development and operation of Single Room
Occupancy land uses. Single Room Occupancy units provide housing opportunities
for lower-income individuals, persons with disabilities, the elderly and
formerly homeless individuals.
   B.   Single Room Occupancy shall mean a facility providing dwelling units
where each unit has a minimum floor area of 150 square feet and a maximum floor
area of 350 square feet. These dwellings units may have kitchen or bathroom
facilities and shall be offered on a monthly basis or longer.
   C.   Single Room Occupancy Units shall be located exclusively in the
Industrial (I), General Commercial (C-G), Mixed Use Commercial (C-MU), and
Neighborhood Commercial (C-N) land use districts with the approval of a
Conditional Use Permit. An application pursuant to this section shall be
processed concurrently with any other application(s) required for housing
development.
   D.   The following development standards shall be used in conjunction with
the applicable zoning district standards for any Single Room Occupancy
development.
      1.   Unit Size: The minimum size of a unit shall be one hundred fifty
(150) square feet and the maximum size shall be three hundred fifty (350)
square feet which may include bathroom and/or kitchen facilities.
      2.   Occupancy: An SRO unit shall accommodate a maximum of two (2)
persons.
      3.   Common Areas: A minimum of ten (10) square feet for each unit shall
be provided for common area. All common areas shall be within the structure.
Dining rooms, meeting rooms, recreational rooms or other similar areas may be
considered common areas. Shared bathrooms, kitchens, janitorial storage,
laundry facilities and common hallways shall not be considered as common areas.
      4.   Kitchen Facilities: An SRO is not required to but may contain
partial or full kitchen facilities. A full kitchen includes a sink, a
refrigerator and a stove, range top or oven. If a full kitchen is not provided,
common kitchen facilities shall be provided with at least one kitchen per
floor.
      5.   Bathroom Facilities: For each unit a private toilet and sink in an
enclosed compartment with a door shall be provided. This compartment shall be a
minimum of fifteen (15) square feet. If private bathing facilities are not
provided for each unit, shared shower or bathtub facilities shall be provided
in accordance with the most recent edition of the California Building Codes for
congregate residences with at least one full bathroom per every three (3) units
on a floor. The shared shower or bathtub facility shall be accessible from a
common area or hallway. Each shared shower or bathtub facility shall be
provided with an interior lockable door.
      6.   Closet: Each SRO shall have a separate closet.
      7.   Laundry Facilities: Laundry facilities shall be provided in a
separate room at the ratio of one washer and dryer for every ten (10) units,
with at least one washer and dryer per floor.
      8.   Cleaning Supply Room: A cleaning supply room or utility closet with
a wash tub with hot and cold running water shall be provided on each floor.
      9.   Management: A management plan shall be submitted with the
development application for an SROP facility and shall be approved by the
Director and the Chief of Police. The management plan must address management
and operation of the facility, rental procedures, safety and security of the
residents and building maintenance.
(Ord. 254, 12-16-2014; amd. Ord. 296, - - ; Ord. 320, 11-5-2024)
CHAPTER 9.49
EXOTIC ANIMALS
SECTION:
9.49.010: Definitions
9.49.020: Permitted Land Use
9.49.030: Procedures And Requirements For Conditional Use Permit And Special
Use Permit
9.49.040: General Standards For Conditional Use Permit And Special Use Permit
9.49.050: General Conditions For Conditional Use Permit And Special Use Permit
9.49.060: Findings For Conditional Use Permit And Special Use Permit
9.49.070: Revocation Of Permit
9.49.010: DEFINITIONS:
EXOTIC ANIMAL: Any animal of the class Aves (birds), class Mammalia (mammals),
class Amphibia (frogs, toads, salamanders), class Osteichtyes (bony fishes),
class Monorhina (lampreys), class Reptilia (reptiles), class Crustacea
(crayfish), or class Gastropoda (slugs, snails) that are restricted by the
state.
ZOO: A zoological garden or other collection of exotic animals which are
raised, bred, trained and/or maintained for on site display that is open to the
general public, education, tours and exhibition which is accredited by the
American Zoo And Aquarium Association (AZA). (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.49.020: PERMITTED LAND USE:
   A.   The keeping of exotic animals as defined in this chapter shall be
permitted as an accessory use to single dwelling units in accordance with this
code as follows:
      Any "exotic animal" as defined in this chapter with a state fish and game
caging requirement of fifty (50) square feet or less and kept within an
enclosed building shall be permitted provided the applicant registers said
animal(s) on a form to be provided by the town's animal control section. The
applicant must provide a copy of the applicant's state department of fish and
game permit for each animal(s) registered.
The keeping or maintaining of exotic animals on any property within the town
with a state department of fish and game caging requirement of up to one
hundred forty nine (149) square feet may be permitted as an accessory to a
single- family dwelling located within the large animal overlay district
subject to the provisions of this code. A special use permit is required for
the keeping or maintaining of up to two (2) exotic animals and a conditional
use permit is required for the keeping or maintaining of three (3) to four (4)
exotic animals.
Any exotic animal with a caging requirement of one hundred fifty (150) square
feet and greater is prohibited as an accessory use to a single-family dwelling,
except as a zoo.
The keeping or maintaining of any exotic animal(s) for on site display open to
the general public shall be permitted subject to the issuance of a conditional
use permit by the planning commission and the further requirements of this code
for the establishment of a zoo. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.49.030: PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS FOR CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT AND SPECIAL
USE PERMIT:
   A.   Prior to giving a public hearing notice, the reviewing authority shall
request that a veterinarian that is recognized by the department of fish and
game submit a statement regarding the particular animal's mature behavior and
personality characteristics specific to the animals being requested.
   B.   Any action to approve a request for an exotic animal shall not be
effective until written evidence is received by the director that the applicant
has received a permit from the state department of fish and game.
   C.   A special use permit or conditional use permit for the keeping of an
exotic animal shall be noticed in accordance with
chapter 9.85, "Public Notices And Hearings", of this title.
   D.   Applicant shall provide any documentation or written notice received
from state department of fish and game regarding prior violations and
corrective action pertaining to the keeping of the animal(s). Following the
application submittal, planning staff shall send a written letter to the state
department of fish and game requesting information on any prior violations and
what the corrective measures were. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.49.040: GENERAL STANDARDS FOR CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT AND SPECIAL USE PERMIT:
   A.   A person may keep or maintain in their possession or control an exotic
animal with a caging requirement ranging from fifty one (51) to one hundred
forty nine (149) square feet on any property within the town on any parcel
zoned for single-family residential purposes only as specifically authorized by
the provisions of this chapter and the site is located within areas identified
on the town adopted large animal overlay district map.
   B.   The keeping of the animal(s) must comply with all setback requirements
of section
9.08.020, "Animal Keeping In Residential Districts", of this title.
   C.   The keeping of exotic animals as allowed by this code shall be subject
to the following parcel size and density restrictions:
 
Minimum State Fish And                   Minimum Parcel Size/Density
Game Caging Requirements
Animals which are normally maintained in
aquariums, terrariums, birdcages or
similar devices, each of which does not  None
exceed a floor area of 50 square feet
and where such devices/cages are
maintained within an enclosed building
Requires a floor area of 50 square feet
or less per animal which are not         1 per 10,000 square feet. Maximum of 4
maintained within an enclosed building
Requires a floor area between 51 square
feet and 99 square feet per animal which 1 per 20,000 square feet. Maximum of 4
are not maintained within an enclosed
building
Requires a floor area between 100 square
feet and 149 square feet per animal      1 acre minimum. 20,000 square feet for
which are not maintained within an       every additional animal. Maximum of 4
enclosed building
 
   D.   If the permit being requested from the department of fish and game is
an exhibiting permit that includes public on site display of the animal(s), the
following provisions shall apply:
      1.   A minimum parcel size of twenty (20) acres shall be required for a
facility that proposes any public on site display of the animal(s).
      2.   Visitor parking shall be provided in accordance with
chapter 9.33, "Parking And Loading Regulations", of this article 3.
      3.   Permanent restroom facilities shall be provided in accordance with
the California building and San Bernardino County health department
requirements.
      4.   All appropriate off site improvements including access to the
facility must be in existence or be constructed prior to the housing of any
animal.
      5.   The facility shall be accredited by the American Zoo And Aquarium
Association (AZA).
      6.   Any applicant proposing a zoo facility within a residential land use
district or on a site that abuts a residential land use district shall include
with the application written consent to the approval of the zoo facility dated
within ninety (90) days prior to the filing of such application from each owner
(s) of property within one thousand three hundred twenty five feet (1,325') of
the lot on which the facility is proposed. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.49.050: GENERAL CONDITIONS FOR CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT AND SPECIAL USE PERMIT:
Any action to approve a request for an exotic animal shall include the
following conditions in addition to any conditions deemed appropriate by the
reviewing authority:
   A.   The keeping of the animal must comply with all town code requirements
including setbacks from property lines and other dwellings.
   B.   The keeping/caging of the animal must comply with all applicable
federal and state requirements.
   C.   Each animal must have sufficient area to be maintained and exercised in
a normal healthy manner as determined by the state department of fish and game.
   D.   Each permit shall specify the annual renewal period and inspection
requirements. Permits for any animal shall be issued for a period not to exceed
twelve (12) months.
   E.   The applicant agrees to allow reasonable inspection of the property by
animal control staff and/or designee to ensure compliance with the conditions
of approval. Inspections shall include, at a minimum, one inspection per year
following approval of the permit and at each renewal. At such time the
applicant shall provide animal control with written documentation/records from
a qualified veterinarian that the animal(s) are being properly cared for.
   F.   Upon the renewal of the permit and inspection, the applicant shall
supply written documentation from the state department of fish and game that
the facility and the keeping of the animals are in compliance with all federal
and state requirements.
   G.   The applicant obtains a permit from the state department of fish and
game.
   H.   All cages shall be constructed by a licensed contractor and shall
provide certification that the cages were constructed and installed in
accordance with the approved plans and all state and/or federal caging
requirements.
   I.   The area where the animals are to be kept shall be screened from public
view.
   J.   The applicant/owner shall agree to defend, indemnify, and hold harmless
the town, its agents, officers, or employees from any claim, action, or
proceeding against the town or its agents, officers, or employees to attack,
set aside, void, or annul an approval of the town, an advisory agency, appeal
board or legislative body concerning the permit or any other action relating to
or arising out of such approval. Any condition of approval imposed pursuant to
the provisions of this condition shall include a requirement that the town
promptly notify the applicant of any claim, action, or proceeding and that the
town cooperate fully in the defense. If the town fails to promptly notify the
applicant of any claim, action, or proceeding, or if the town fails to
cooperate fully in the defense, the applicant shall not thereafter be
responsible to defend, indemnify, or hold the town harmless. If any provision
of this condition is found invalid by a court of law, the remaining provisions
of this condition shall remain in full force and effect.
   K.   The occupant of the premises on which the exotic animal is kept shall
keep and maintain the animal(s) and the premises in such a manner as not to be
detrimental to the health, safety or welfare of any person on any adjoining
property or of the general public. Such maintenance shall be at least
sufficient to keep dust, odor, and flies from having an adverse effect on any
other property.
   L.   Immediate notification shall be given to the department of fish and
game, San Bernardino County sheriff department, and town of Yucca Valley animal
control in the event the animal(s) escape from the premises.
   M.   Prior to occupancy of the site by any exotic animal, the applicant
shall develop a comprehensive emergency plan for state department of fish and
game, local police and animal control for review and approval. This
comprehensive plan of action shall be developed to address the following
situations:
      1.   Damages to the enclosures. Temporary holding facilities shall be
identified. Necessary mechanisms to safely transport the animal(s) to another
holding enclosure shall be on hand.
      2.   Animal attacking and/or injuring humans: Include a list of safety
equipment that will be available for use.
      3.   Escape of animal from its enclosure: Recapture plans shall outline
the procedures for handling and recapture of the escaped animal(s), equipment
to be used, people to be contacted, various restraint methods, including
conditions which warrant the use of lethal force.
   N.   Prior notification of inspection is not required if town animal control
staff has reason to believe the health and safety of the public or the animal
is in danger if there is a delay.
   O.   Any excessively disturbing noises, including, but not limited to,
continued and repeated howling, barking, whining, or other utterances causing
unreasonable annoyance, disturbance or discomfort to neighbors or others in
close proximity to the premises where the animal(s) is kept or harbored shall
be considered a nuisance.
   P.   Prior to occupancy of the site with any exotic animal as approved under
an SUP or CUP, the applicant shall provide proof of their ability to respond in
damages to and including the amount of one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000.00) by obtaining a policy of insurance coverage in said amount for
bodily injury or death of any person(s) or for damage to property owned by any
other person which may result from the ownership, keeping or maintaining of an
exotic animal(s). Proof of liability shall be provided as required by this
title in a form approved by the town attorney, a certificate of insurance
issued by a solvent corporation authorized to issue bonds under the laws of the
state. Such certificate of insurance or bond shall provide that no cancellation
of the insurance or bonds will be made unless thirty (30) days' written notice
is first given to the town community development planning section. (Ord. 254,
12-16-2014)
9.49.060: FINDINGS FOR CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT AND SPECIAL USE PERMIT:
Prior to taking action to approve a special use permit or conditional use
permit for any exotic animal(s), the reviewing authority shall find and justify
that all of the following are true:
   A.   That the impacts which could result from the keeping of exotic animal
(s), and the proposed location, size, design and operating characteristics of
the animal and/or use, and the conditions under which it would be operated or
maintained will not be considered to be detrimental to the public health,
safety and welfare of the community or be materially injurious to properties
and/or improvements within the immediate vicinity or be contrary to the general
plan;
   B.   Adequate safeguards have been established and will be maintained that
effectively control all dangerous or vicious propensities of such animals;
   C.   That the proposed animal keeping will comply with each of the
applicable provisions of the development code, and applicable town policies,
except approved variances and state and federal requirements;
   D.   That the location of the animal keeping area and any proposed
structures and improvements are compatible with the site's natural landform,
surrounding sites, and structures.
   E.   That the proposed animal keeping will not create such an attractive
nuisance by nature of its existence that it would draw undue attention to the
activity by an increase in foot or vehicular traffic to the surrounding
neighborhood or might entice the general public onto the property. (Ord. 254,
12-16-2014)
9.49.070: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
A conditional use permit or special use permit may be revoked by the town
council if any one of the following findings can be made:
   A.   That the permit was obtained by misrepresentation or fraud.
   B.   That the use for which the permit was granted has ceased or has been
suspended for six (6) or more consecutive months.
   C.   That the use is in violation of one or more of the conditions of
approval.
   D.   That the use is in violation of any state or federal requirement. (Ord.
254, 12-16-2014)
CHAPTER 9.50
HOME OCCUPATION PERMITS
SECTION:
9.50.010: Purpose And Applicability
9.50.020: Classes Of Home Occupations Described
9.50.030: Development Standards
9.50.040: Review
9.50.050: Home Occupation Permit Renewal
9.50.060: Home Occupation Permit Amendment
9.50.070: Home Occupation Permit Revocation
9.50.080: Appeal
9.50.010: PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to establish regulations
allowing for the operation of certain business activities in single- and multi-
family residential neighborhoods. The standards and requirements are intended
to ensure that home occupation operations do not alter the character of any
residential neighborhood, or create impacts or activities that are not
typically and commonly associated with residential neighborhoods. It is the
intent of this chapter to allow for commercial uses that are accessory and
incidental to the primary purpose of residential zones, which is that of
providing a habitable dwelling for the owner or occupant as the primary use of
the residential dwelling unit.
   B.   Applicability: The provisions in this chapter shall apply to home
occupations as defined in article 7, "Definitions", of this title and where
allowed in compliance within this article 3 and the following standards. A home
occupation shall only be allowed as an accessory use on a parcel with a legal
residential dwelling unit.
   C.   Definition: A "home occupation" is defined as "a commercial activity
conducted in compliance with this chapter, carried out by an occupant and
conducted as an accessory use within the primary dwelling unit, an accessory
structure or approved outdoor activity". (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.50.020: CLASSES OF HOME OCCUPATIONS DESCRIBED:
   A.   Home occupations are commercial uses that are accessory and incidental
to a residential land use and that do not alter the character or the appearance
of the residential environment or neighborhood.
   B.   No person shall engage in a home occupation without first obtaining a
home occupation permit from the planning division consistent with the
requirements of this chapter, unless otherwise exempt. In addition, the
operator of the home occupation shall procure a business registration in
compliance with title 5,
chapter 5.20, "Business Registration Certificate", of this code, including home
occupations that are exempt from permitting.
      1.   Class I, Exempt From Permitting:
         a.   Class I home occupations shall have no impact on the neighborhood
in which they are located. Work is performed exclusively by phone and mail, or
over the internet, and/or the activity is limited so that there are no impacts
on the neighborhood. Class I home occupations are allowed in any residential
zoning district.
These uses include telecommuting and internet or electronic based businesses,
or other similar activities that are transparent inside the residential
structure, and do not involve customers to the site, employees, or any
structural alteration.
In addition, no permit is required for home based businesses where no business
activity takes place other than the scheduling of appointments or paperwork,
there are no customers received at the residence, the exterior of the property
is not modified for the business and there is no outdoor storage of materials
or vehicles, except as normally associated with and allowed in a residential
area. These business activities include, but are not limited to, contractors,
housecleaning, carpet cleaning, mobile car wash or gardeners.
         b.   Class I development standards:
            (1)   No customers or clients shall visit the residence.
            (2)   All employees shall be members of the resident family and
shall reside on the premises.
      2.   Class II, No Hearing Required:
         a.   Class II home occupations may have a limited impact on the
neighborhood in which they are located. Class II home occupations shall be
allowed in the Single-Family Residential (RS), Rural Living (RL) and
Residential-Hillside Reserve (R-HR) Zoning Districts.
Subject to the authority and discretion of the Director, home occupations that
meet the following standards, after appropriate application and subject to a
field investigation, may be permitted without notice or a hearing.
Alternatively, the Director may schedule a hearing or forward the matter to the
commission for action. The Director may establish any other special condition
of approval for any home occupation permit as necessary to carry out the intent
of this subsection.
         b.   Class II development standards:
            (1)   There may be sales of products on the premises.
            (2)   A maximum of three (3) customers or clientele per day may
visit the residence.
            (3)   All employees, except one, shall be members of the resident
family and shall reside on the premises.
            (4)   Operating hours of a home occupation in which there are
customers visiting the site shall be between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00)
A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) P.M. Operating hours of all other home occupations
requiring a permit shall be between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and
seven o'clock (7:00) P.M.
            (5)   There shall be no outdoor home occupation activity, and
screened outdoor storage of material shall be limited to ten percent (10%) of
the lot area.
      3.   Class III, Notice And Hearing Required:
         a.   Class III home occupations may have a limited impact on the
neighborhood in which they are located but are also slightly more intense than
Class II in that they may involve outdoor storage of material and/or outdoor
home occupation activities that do not impact the neighborhood. Class III home
occupations are permitted in the Rural Living (RL) and Residential-Hillside
Reserve (R-HR) Zoning Districts.
Class III home occupations shall be subject to notice and hearing. The
commission is the review authority, and the commission may forward the
application to the Council for consideration.
         b.   Class III development standards:
            (1)   There may be sales of products on the premises.
            (2)   Customers may visit the residence and then only by
appointment. This is restricted to a single appointment at a time. The monthly
average of the total trip count for business activities shall not exceed twelve
(12) trips per day in all zoning districts.
            (3)   All employees, except two (2), shall be members of the
resident family and shall reside on the premises.
            (4)   Operating hours of a home occupation in which there are sales
on the premises or customers visiting the site shall be between the hours of
nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) P.M. Operating hours of all
other home occupations requiring a permit shall be between the hours of seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) P.M.
            (5)   Lots in the Rural Living (RL) and Residential-Hillside
Reserve (R-HR) Zoning Districts that are one acre or larger shall be permitted
outdoor business activity or screened outdoor storage of materials subject to
review and approval by the commission.
      4.   Class IV, Conditional Use Permit: Home occupations which may exceed
the standards provided in subsection B2 or B3 of this section may be approved
subject to the review and approval of a conditional use permit by the
commission. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
   TABLE 3-26
   PERMITTED LAND USES AND PERMIT REQUIREMENTS FOR RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICTS
 
Zoning districts:
 R-HR: Residential-       RL: Rural living         
  hillside reserve
 RS: Residential single-  RM: Residential multi-   
  family                    family
Permit required:
 CUP: Conditional use     HOP: Home occupation    SPR: Site plan and design
  permit                    permit                   review
 E: Exempt                NP: Prohibited          SUP: Special use permit
 
Type Of Use Permit Required By Zoning District Notes And Other Regulations
            R-HR RL RS RM
                       Permit Required By Zoning District Notes And Other
Type Of Use            R-HR RL  RS  RM                    Regulations

Care uses:                                             
                                                          8 or fewer children,
                                                          pursuant to
 Child daycare (small E    E   E   NP                    residential district
  family)                                                 standards, section
                                                          9.08.040 of this
                                                          title
                                                          9 to 14 children,
                                                          pursuant to
 Child daycare (large SUP  SUP SUP NP                    residential district
  family)                                                 standards, section
                                                          9.08.040 of this
                                                          title
                                                          15 or more children,
 Child daycare center CUP  CUP CUP NP                    pursuant to section
                                                          9.08.040 of this
                                                          title
                                                          Including
 Homeless shelter     NP   NP  NP  NP                    transitional and
                                                          supportive uses
                                                          Includes, but is not
                                                          limited to, elderly
                                                          care and sober living
  Social care                                             facilities. Pursuant
 facility, 6 or fewer E    E   E   E                     to residential
                                                          district standards,
                                                          section
                                                          9.08.090 of this
                                                          title
                                                          Includes, but is not
                                                          limited to, elderly
                                                          care and sober living
  Social care                                             facilities. See
 facility, 7 or more  CUP  CUP CUP NP                    section
                                                          9.08.090,
                                                          "Residential/Social
                                                          Care Facilities", of
                                                          this title
Agriculture, animal
related, and open                                      
space uses:
  Agriculture for                                         Including, but not
  commercial use not                                      limited to, row,
 including animal     CUP  CUP NP  NP                    field, tree, and
  husbandry or                                            nursery crop
  stockyards                                              cultivation
                                                          Including, but not
                                                          limited to, animal
 Animal care facility NP   NP  NP  NP                    hospitals,
                                                          veterinarian, pet
                                                          stores, and grooming
 Community gardens    HOP  HOP NP  NP                     
 Equestrian facility  SUP  SUP NP  NP                     
 Feed and tack        NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  Horticulture for
  private use,                                            Permitted as a use
 including growing    E    E   E   E                     that is incidental to
  fruit, flowers,                                         the primary use
  ornamental plants
  and vegetables
 Kennels (over 15     NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  animals)
 Livestock operations NP   NP  NP  NP                     
 Natural resources    NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  development
 Nature preserve      NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  Nursery/garden
 supply (with outdoor NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  display)
  Nursery/garden
 supply (without      NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  outdoor display)
Retail commercial                                      
uses:
 Adult oriented       NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  business
 Ammunition sales     NP   NP  NP  NP                     
 Antique/secondhand   NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  stores
  Appliance sales and
 home goods (no       NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  repair)
  Auto and vehicle
 sales and rentals    NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  and parts sales
  Boat and
 recreational vehicle NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  sales
  Building and
 landscape materials  NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  sales (indoor)
  Building and
 landscape materials  NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  sales (outdoor)
  Construction and
 heavy equipment      NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  sales and rentals
 Convenience store    NP   NP  NP  NP                     
 Farmers' market/arts NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  and crafts events
 Firearms sales       HOP  HOP NP  NP                     
 Fuel/propane dealer  NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  Grocery,
 supermarket,         NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  specialty food
  store, drugstore
 Manufactured home    NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  sales
 Pawnshop             NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  Retail store (less
 than 80,000 square   NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  feet)
  Retail store (80,000
 or greater square    NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  feet)
 Seasonal holiday     NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  sales facilities
  Shopping center
 (neighborhood,       NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  community, or
  regional)
  Swap meet, outdoor
 market, auction yard NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  (permanent)
 Warehouse retail     NP   NP  NP  NP                     
Business, financial,                                   
and professional:
 ATM                  NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  Financial
 institution and      NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  related service
 Laboratory           NP   NP  NP  NP                     
                                                          Provided that no
 Office               E    E   E   E                     customers or clients
                                                          are visiting the
                                                          residence
                                                          Customers or clients
 Office               HOP  HOP HOP NP                    visiting the
                                                          residence
Eating and drinking                                    
establishments:
 Bakery (delivery     HOP  HOP HOP NP                     
  only)
  Bakery (retail),
 coffee shop and      NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  similar uses
  Bar, lounge,
 nightclub, tavern,   NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  and pool hall
 Catering service     HOP  HOP HOP NP                     
 Cottage food         HOP  HOP HOP HOP                    
  operation
  Fast food (with
 drive-through,       NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  delivery)
  Fast food (without
 drive-through,       NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  delivery)
 Full service         NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  restaurant
Commercial service                                     
uses:
 Ambulance service    NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  Appliance sales,
 service, repair, and NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  rental
 Automobile gas       NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  station
  Automobile service/
 repair (major        NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  repair/body work)
  Automobile service/
  repair (minor
 repair, maintenance, NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  upholstery,
  painting)
 Automobile washing   NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  (car wash)
  Barber, beauty shop,
 and other similar    HOP  HOP HOP NP                     
  personal service
  uses
  Equipment sales,
 service, repair, and NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  rental
 Fitness center       NP   NP  NP  NP                     
 Fortune telling and  HOP  HOP HOP NP                     
  related service
  Funeral service
 (including           NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  crematorium)
  Funeral service
 (excluding           NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  crematorium)
 Laundry and dry      NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  cleaning
 Locksmith            HOP  HOP HOP NP                     
  Maintenance and
 repair, general      HOP  HOP NP  NP                     
  (minor)
 Maintenance and      NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  repair (major)
 Massage              NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  establishment
                                                          Customers or clients
 Personal trainer     HOP  HOP HOP NP                    visiting the
                                                          residence
 Printing and         HOP  HOP HOP NP                     
  duplication services
  Studio (dance,
 music, martial arts, HOP  HOP HOP NP                     
  artists)
 Tattoo and piercing  NP   NP  NP  NP                     
Commercial recreation:                                 
 Amusement arcade or  NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  park
 Campgrounds          NP   NP  NP  NP                     
 Carnivals/circuses/  NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  festivals/fairs
  Concerts, open air
 theaters, outdoor    NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  entertainment events
  Game arcade,
 internet cafe, and   NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  similar businesses
 Golf course          NP   NP  NP  NP                     
 Hookah lounge        NP   NP  NP  NP                     
 Parks/recreation     NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  facilities
 Private clubs and    NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  lodges
  Recreation and
 entertainment        NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  (commercial indoor
  and outdoor)
 Recreational vehicle NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  park
Industry,
manufacturing and                                      
processing,
wholesaling:
  Construction/
 contractor storage   NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  yard
 Hazardous waste      NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  operations
 Manufacturing        NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  operations
  Motor vehicle
 storage/impound      NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  facility
  Recycling facility
 (processing          NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  facility)
  Recycling facility
 (small collection    NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  facility)
 Research and         NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  development
 Salvage facility     NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  Storage -
 ministorage          NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  (personal storage)
 Storage (outdoor     NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  vehicles storage)
 Welding and          NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  machining
 Wholesaling and      NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  distribution
Transportation,
communications, and                                    
infrastructure:
                                                          Including, but not
                                                          limited to, radio and
                                                          television stations
 Communication        NP   NP  NP  NP                    or towers, satellite
  facility                                                receiving stations,
                                                          but not wireless
                                                          telecommunication
                                                          facilities
 Parking lot          NP   NP  NP  NP                     
 Public/government    NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  facilities
 Public safety uses   NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  (permanent)
                                                          See solar energy
 Solar energy systems P    P   P   P                     systems; section
  (accessory)                                             9.42.010 of this
                                                          article 3
  Solar energy systems
 (commercial/primary  NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  use)
  Transmission utility
 lines, pipelines,    NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  and control stations
 Utilities (major)    NP   NP  NP  NP                     
                                                          See wind energy
 Wind energy system   SPR  SPR SPR SPR                   systems; section
  (accessory)                                             9.43.010 of this
                                                          article 3
  Wind energy system
 (commercial/ primary NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  use)
                                                          Pursuant to
  Wireless                                                chapter 9.44,
 telecommunication    CUP  CUP CUP CUP                   "Wireless
  facilities                                              Communications
                                                          Facilities", of this
                                                          article 3
Other uses:                                            
 Archery and gun      NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  ranges (indoor)
 Archery and gun      NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  ranges (outdoor)
                                                          See bed and
 Bed and breakfast    SUP  SUP SUP NP                    breakfast; section
                                                          9.08.030 of this
                                                          title
  Cemeteries,
 including pet        NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  cemeteries
  Churches, religious
 assembly, and other  NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  public assembly
 Conference centers   NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  and group camps
 Correctional         NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  institution
 Emergency facilities NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  (temporary)
  Hospitals/medical/
 rehabilitation       NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  centers/clinics
 Hotels and motels    NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  Marijuana
  dispensaries,
  marijuana                                               Pursuant to
 cultivation,         NP   NP  NP  NP                    chapter 9.53 of this
  marijuana                                               title
  deliveries,
  additional
  prohibited marijuana
  Medical and dental
 offices, clinics,    NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  laboratories
  Museum, library, art
 gallery, outdoor     NP   NP  NP  NP                     
  exhibit
  Schools (private,                                       Not to include
 vocational, charter, NP   NP  NP  NP                    homeschooling
  and other)
 
(Ord. 254, 12-16-2014; amd. Ord. 268, 7-18-2017)
9.50.030: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   All home occupations shall comply with all of the following conditions
of approval at all times:
      1.   No dwelling or accessory structure shall be built, altered,
furnished or decorated for the purpose of conducting the home occupation in
such a manner as to change the residential character and appearance of the
dwelling, or in such a manner as to cause the structure to be recognized as a
place where a home occupation is conducted;
      2.   There shall be no displays, sale, or advertising signs on the
premises;
      3.   There shall be no signs other than one unlighted identification sign
containing the name and address of the owner attached to the building not
exceeding two (2) square feet in area per street frontage;
      4.   All maintenance or service vehicles and equipment, or any vehicle
bearing any advertisement, shall be in conformance with town regulations
regarding vehicle signs;
      5.   The home occupation shall not encroach into any required parking,
setback, or open space area and required covered parking shall not be altered
for the purpose of conducting the home occupation;
      6.   There shall be no outdoor home occupation activity or outdoor
storage of stock, merchandise, scrap supplies, or other materials or equipment
on the premises, except as approved by the commission;
      7.   Any storage of hazardous, toxic, or combustible materials in amounts
exceeding those typically found in residential uses shall be prohibited;
      8.   There shall be complete conformity with fire, building, plumbing,
electrical, and health codes and to all applicable state and town laws and
ordinances. Activities conducted and equipment or material used shall not
change the fire safety or occupancy classification of the premises;
      9.   No home occupation shall generate pedestrian or vehicular traffic in
excess of that customarily associated with a residential use and the
neighborhood in which it is located;
      10.   No home occupation shall be initiated until a current business
registration certificate is obtained, including home occupations that are
exempt from permitting;
      11.   A home occupation permit shall not be transferable to another
person or property;
      12.   No use shall create or cause noise in excess of noise standards
established for residential zoning districts, dust, light, vibration, odor,
gas, fumes, toxic or hazardous materials, smoke, glare, electrical
interference, or other hazards or nuisances;
      13.   Public advertising shall only list phone number, operator's name,
post office box and description of business. Business address or location shall
not be included in any public advertising;
      14.   Parking shall comply with the requirements of
chapter 9.33 of this article 3. One additional parking space shall be provided
for each nonresident employee.
      15.   If the home occupation is to be conducted on rental property,
written permission from the property owner shall be submitted. (Ord. 254, 12-
16-2014)
9.50.040: REVIEW:
   A.   The review authority shall review all applications for a home
occupation permit to determine if the proposed use is consistent with the
provision of this chapter. If all standards are met after complying with the
noticing provisions of
chapter 9.85 of this title, the review authority shall make the following
findings prior to issuance of the permit:
      1.   That the proposed use is not prohibited;
      2.   That the proposed use will comply with all applicable standards;
      3.   That the issuance of the home occupation permit will not be
detrimental to the public health, safety, and general welfare;
      4.   That the proposed use will be consistent with any applicable
specific plan;
      5.   That the proposed use will not alter the character of the
neighborhood and will not induce physical or socioeconomic changes to the
neighborhood that are inconsistent with the goals and objectives of the general
plan, and this development code, and that do not create characteristics more
closely associated with commercial, office or industrial land use activities.
(Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.50.050: HOME OCCUPATION PERMIT RENEWAL:
Home occupation permits are approved for a period of three (3) years. The
director shall be the review authority for all home occupation permit renewals.
(Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.50.060: HOME OCCUPATION PERMIT AMENDMENT:
Refer to
chapter 9.83, "Permit Amendments", of this title. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.50.070: HOME OCCUPATION PERMIT REVOCATION:
Refer to
chapter 9.84, "Permit Revocations", of this title. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.50.080: APPEAL:
Refer to
chapter 9.81, "Appeals", of this title. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
CHAPTER 9.51
DEDICATION OF LAND FOR PARK AND RECREATION PURPOSES
SECTION:
9.51.010: Purpose And Intent
9.51.020: Park Land Dedication Requirements
9.51.030: Payment Of In Lieu Fees For Park And Recreation Purposes
9.51.040: Combination Of Land And Fees Required
9.51.050: Procedure
9.51.060: Credit For Private Open Space
9.51.070: Improvements To Dedicated Park Land And Adjoining Public Rights Of
Way
9.51.080: Alternative Method
9.51.010: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
This chapter is enacted pursuant to the authority granted by section 66477 of
the California Government Code which authorizes a city to require the
dedication of land for park and recreation facilities or payment of in lieu
fees incident to and as a condition of approval of a tentative tract map or
tentative parcel map for certain subdivisions. The purpose and intent of this
chapter is to implement the general plan, the parks master plan, and any
specific or other plan in requiring the dedication of land for park and
recreation purposes. The purpose and intent of this chapter is also to ensure
the adequate provision of park and recreation facilities to meet the needs of
neighborhood residents for both active and passive recreational functions.
(Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.51.020: PARK LAND DEDICATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Applicability: The dedication of land for park and recreation
facilities shall be required incident to and as a condition of the approval of
a tentative tract map or tentative parcel map for a subdivision. Subdivisions
containing less than five (5) parcels and not used for residential purposes
shall be exempted from the requirements of this chapter; provided, however,
that a condition shall be placed on the approval of such parcel map that if a
building permit is requested for construction of a residential structure or
structures on one or more of the parcels within four (4) years of the date of
approval of the parcel map, the fee may be required to be paid by the owner of
each such parcel as a condition to the issuance of such permit. The provisions
of this chapter do not apply to commercial or industrial subdivision or to
condominium projects or stock cooperatives which consist of division of air
space in an existing multi-family residential building which is more than five
(5) years old when no new dwelling units are added.
   B.   Use Of Land And Fees: The land, fees or combination of land and fees,
are to be used only for the purpose of providing park or recreational
facilities within the town which will serve or benefit future inhabitants of
such subdivision, and the park and recreational facilities so developed shall
bear a reasonable relationship to the needs thereof by the inhabitants of the
subdivision. The park and recreational facilities shall be consistent with the
standards and policies for park and recreation facilities, adopted in the
general plan, the parks master plan or an applicable specific plan.
   C.   Establishment And Development Time: The town council shall specify by
resolution at the time approval is given to the final map when the development
of a park or recreation facility to serve the subject subdivision will begin.
The starting date shall be reasonable with respect to: 1) the need for such
park or facility, 2) weather constraints, 3) minimized disruption of the
neighborhood, and 4) the accumulation of the necessary funds and land.
   D.   Land Disposition: In the event that opportunities for better recreation
facilities than those provided by the dedication materialize, the land so
dedicated may be sold and the proceeds used for suitable park and recreation
facilities which serve the neighborhood or area in which that subdivision is
located.
   E.   Standards For Dedications: The amount of land required to be dedicated
to the town for park and recreation facilities incident to and as a condition
of the approval of a tentative tract map or tentative parcel map for a
subdivision shall bear a reasonable relationship to the use or benefits of the
park and recreation facilities by the future inhabitants of the subdivision. It
is found and determined that the public interest, convenience, health, welfare
and safety require that three (3) acres of usable land for each one thousand
(1,000) persons residing within the town be devoted to neighborhood or
community park and recreation facilities. The park land to be so dedicated
shall conform to locations and standards set forth in the general plan and the
parks master plan, or as necessary to implement the general plan and parks
master plan. The slope, topography and geology of the site, as well as its
surroundings, must be suitable for the intended park and recreation purposes.
The primary intent of this section shall be construed to provide the land for
functional recreation units of local, neighborhood, or community park services,
including, but not limited to: tot lots, playlots, playgrounds, neighborhood
parks, playfields, and other specialized recreational facilities that may serve
the organized recreation programs, family group and also senior citizens.
   F.   Amount Of Land To Be Dedicated: Except as otherwise provided in this
chapter, the number of acres or fraction of an acre of usable land required to
be dedicated to the town for park and recreation facilities incident to and as
a condition of the approval of a tentative tract map or tentative parcel map
shall be the product of the following:
      1.   The number of proposed dwelling units within the subdivision,
multiplied by
      2.   The average number of residents per dwelling unit within the
incorporated territory of the city, as determined by the most recent federal
census or a census taken pursuant to the provisions of title 4, division 3,
part 2 of the California Government Code (commencing with section 40200), or
such other acceptable means of determination provided by California Government
Code section 66477, divided by
      3.   One thousand (1,000), multiplied by
      4.   Five (5). (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.51.030: PAYMENT OF IN LIEU FEES FOR PARK AND RECREATION PURPOSES:
   A.   Amount Of In Lieu Fees Required: Where a fee is required to be paid in
lieu of dedicating land, the fee shall be based on the fair market value of the
amount of land which would otherwise be required for dedication, as provided in
section
9.51.020 of this chapter. Such fee shall be determined each year in the amount
as set forth in a park fee study. The fair market value of a buildable acre
shall be based on an appraisal of similarly situated property for usable park
land within the town as determined by the town manager. If the subdivider
objects to such evaluation, the subdivider may, at its own expense, obtain an
appraisal of the property by a qualified real estate appraiser approved by the
town manager, with the appraisal accepted by the town council if found
reasonable or the city and subdivider may agree to the fair market value.
   B.   Fifty Parcels Or Less: The payment of fees in lieu of dedication may be
required in subdivisions containing fifty (50) or less lots or parcels, except
that when a condominium project, stock cooperative or community apartment
project exceeds fifty (50) dwelling units, dedication of land may be required
notwithstanding that the number of parcels may be less than fifty one (51).
(Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.51.040: COMBINATION OF LAND AND FEES REQUIRED:
When only a portion of the required land is dedicated as required by section
9.51.020 of this chapter, an in lieu fee for the remaining required acres of
land shall be paid in accordance with section
9.51.030 of this chapter. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.51.050: PROCEDURE:
The procedure for determining whether the subdivider is to dedicate land, pay a
fee, or both, shall be as follows:
   A.   Action By Subdivider: At the time of filing a tentative tract map or
tentative parcel map for approval, the subdivider shall, as part of such filing
state in writing whether such subdivider desires to dedicate property for park
and recreation purposes or to pay a fee in lieu thereof. If the subdivider
desires to dedicate land for this purpose, the area shall be designated on the
tentative tract or parcel map as submitted.
   B.   Actions Of Town: At the time of the tentative tract map or tentative
parcel map approval, the parks, recreation and cultural commission (the
"advisory agency") shall recommend to the planning commission, and town council
if required, whether to require dedication of the land within the subdivision,
payment of a fee in lieu thereof, or a combination of both, and shall
incorporate such recommendation, as may be amended, as a part of its approval
of the tentative tract map or tentative parcel map.
   C.   Prerequisites For Approval Of Final Map: Where dedication is offered
and accepted, it shall be accomplished in accordance with the subdivision map
act. Where fees are required, such fees shall be deposited with the town prior
to the approval of the final tract map. Open space covenants for private park
or recreation facilities shall be submitted to the town prior to the approval
of the final tract map and shall be recorded contemporaneously with the final
tract map.
   D.   Determination: The parks, recreation, and cultural commission shall
recommend whether to require land dedication, require payment of a fee in lieu
thereof, or a combination of both, by consideration of the following:
      1.   Recreational element of the town's general plan and the town's parks
master plan; and
      2.   Topography, geology, access and location of land within the
subdivision available for dedication; and
      3.   Size and shape of the subdivision and land available for dedication.
   E.   Conveyances: All dedications of land shall be in accordance with the
subdivision map act. Land shall be conveyed in fee simple to the town free and
clear of all encumbrances. Properly executed deeds shall be delivered to the
town before the approval of the final map or parcel map. The subdivider shall
also obtain at its sole cost, a policy of title insurance insuring the town in
an amount equal to the value of the dedicated land. If the final map or parcel
map is disapproved, or if it is withdrawn by the subdivider, the deeds shall be
returned to the subdivider. If the final map or parcel map is approved, the
deeds shall be recorded concurrently with the final map/parcel map by the town.
(Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.51.060: CREDIT FOR PRIVATE OPEN SPACE:
When private open space for park and recreation purposes is provided in a
proposed subdivision and such space is to be privately owned and maintained by
future residents of the subdivision, such areas shall be credited up to twenty
five percent (25%) against the requirement of a dedication of park and
recreation purposes set forth in section
9.51.020 of this chapter or the payment of fees set forth in section
9.51.030 of this chapter, provided the parks, recreation and cultural
commission finds that it is in the public interest to do so, and that the
following standards are met:
   A.   That yards, court areas, setbacks and other open areas required to be
maintained by the zoning, land use district, and building regulations shall not
be included in the computation of such private open space; and
   B.   That the private ownership and maintenance of the private open space is
adequately provided for by written agreement; and
   C.   That the use of the private open space is restricted for park and
recreation purposes by recorded covenants which run with the land in favor of
the future owners of the property within the tract; and
   D.   That the proposed private open space is reasonably adaptable for use
for park and recreation purposes, taking into consideration such factors as
size, shape, topography, geology, access and location of the private open space
land; and
   E.   That facilities proposed for the open space are in substantial
accordance with the provisions of the city's general plan and parks master plan
and are approved by the parks, recreation, and cultural commission; and
   F.   That the private recreational facilities include one or more of the
following active recreational elements: 1) open spaces dedicated to active
recreational pursuits such as soccer, golf, baseball, softball and football; 2)
basketball courts, tennis courts, badminton courts, shuffleboard courts or
other similar hard surfaced areas and volleyball courts, especially designed
and exclusively used for court games; and 3) recreational swimming pools and
other swimming areas. The town may consider acceptance of passive open space,
based upon preservation of the natural environment, topography, creation of
usable passive open space reflective of the desert environment, consistent with
the adopted general plan. (Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
9.51.070: IMPROVEMENTS TO DEDICATED PARK LAND AND ADJOINING PUBLIC RIGHTS OF
WAY:
   A.   When the town has required the dedication of land for park facilities
incidental to and as a condition of the approval of a tentative tract map or
tentative parcel map for a residential subdivision, the town shall, as a
further condition of such approval, require the construction and installation
of the following public improvements within the dedicated park land and
adjoining public rights of way, which are in addition to any park and
recreation facilities and improvement impact fees, including, but not limited
to:
      1.   Storm drainage facilities necessary for the conveyance and disposal
of stormwaters generated within or flowing through the dedicated park land.
      2.   Fencing necessary in order to provide an appropriate barrier between
the dedicated park land and adjoining properties.
      3.   Street improvements within the adjoining public rights of way
including, but not limited to, street paving, sidewalks, curbs, gutters, street
trees and traffic control devices.
      4.   Grading necessary for facilitation of the project.
      5.   Any other public improvements which the town determines are
necessary in order to make the dedicated park land suitable for development as
a park facility.
      6.   Provide access from the park and recreational facilities to an
existing or proposed public street, unless the town determines that such access
is unnecessary for maintenance of the park area or use of the park by the
residents of the area.
      7.   Provide all utilities to the site.
No grading, drainage, irrigation, planting, street or utility improvements
required under this section shall be eligible for a credit against the land to
be dedicated or fees paid under the provisions of this section. (Ord. 254, 12-
16-2014)
9.51.080: ALTERNATIVE METHOD:
This chapter is intended to establish an alternative method for spreading the
costs of the park and recreation facilities against the lands which will be
benefited thereby; and the provisions of this chapter shall not be construed to
limit the powers of the town council to utilize any other method for
accomplishing this purpose but shall be in addition to any other requirements
which the town council is authorized to impose as a condition to approving new
development pursuant to state and local statutory and decisional law. (Ord.
254, 12-16-2014)
CHAPTER 9.52
ADULT ORIENTED BUSINESS
(Reserved)
(Ord. 254, 12-16-2014)
CHAPTER 9.53
MARIJUANA USES PROHIBITED; PERSONAL MARIJUANA CULTIVATION REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9.53.010: Intent
9.53.020: Definitions
9.53.030: Marijuana Dispensaries
9.53.040: Marijuana Cultivation Prohibited; Exception
9.53.050: Marijuana Deliveries Prohibited (Rep. by Ord. 307, 12-5-2023)
9.53.060: Additional Prohibited Marijuana Uses
9.53.070: Violation And Enforcement; Public Nuisance Declared
9.53.010: INTENT:
The purpose of this chapter is to prohibit all recreational and medical
marijuana uses and activities in the Town to the extent allowable under State
law, and to establish reasonable regulations for the indoor personal
cultivation of no more than six (6) marijuana plants. (Ord. 268, 7-18-2017)
9.53.020: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
following meanings:
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE: Means a detached subordinate building, the use of which is
customarily incidental to that of the main building or to the main use of the
land, and which is located in the same or a less restrictive zone on the same
lot or parcel of land with the main building or use.
CULTIVATION: Means any activity involving the planting, growing, harvesting,
drying, curing, grading, or trimming of one or more marijuana plants or any
part thereof, whether for recreational, medical, or any other use.
DELIVERY: Means the commercial transfer of marijuana or marijuana products to a
customer. "Delivery" also includes the use by a dispensary of any technology
platform owned and controlled by the dispensary, or independently licensed
under this chapter that enables customers to arrange for or facilitate the
commercial transfer by a dispensary of marijuana or marijuana products.
DIRECTOR: Means the Community Development Director of the Town of Yucca Valley,
or his or her designee.
DISPENSARY: Means a premises where marijuana, marijuana products, or devices
for the use of marijuana or marijuana products are offered, either individually
or in any combination, for retail sale, including an establishment that
delivers marijuana or marijuana products, whether such marijuana is used for
recreational, medical or any other purpose. "Dispensary" also includes any for
profit or not-for-profit cooperative, collective, association or similar entity
that distributes, dispenses, stores, exchanges, processes, delivers, transmits,
gives away , or otherwise makes available marijuana in the Town for any
purpose, whether for medical, recreational, commercial, or any other use.
FIRE DEPARTMENT: Means the San Bernardino County Fire Department.
MARIJUANA: Has the same definition as provided for in Business and Professions
Code section 19300.5(f) for the term "cannabis", and as may be amended, defined
as: all parts of the plant Cannabis sativa Linnaeus, Cannabis indicia, or
Cannabis ruderalis, whether growing or not; the seeds thereof; the resin,
whether crude or purified, extracted from any part of the plant; and every
compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of the plant,
its seeds, or resin. 'Cannabis' also means the separated resin, whether crude
or purified, obtained from marijuana. 'Cannabis' also means marijuana as
defined by Section 11018 of the Health and Safety Code as enacted by Chapter
1407 of the Statutes of 1972. 'Cannabis' does not include the mature stalks of
the plant, fiber produced from the stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds of
the plant, any other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or
preparation of the mature stalks (except the resin extracted therefrom), fiber,
oil, or cake, or the sterilized seed of the plant which is incapable of
germination.
MARIJUANA CULTIVATION SITE: Means the private residence, or fully enclosed
accessory structure to that residence, at which marijuana cultivation is
occurring under the provisions of this chapter, or the property on which the
private residence, or fully enclosed accessory structure to that residence, at
which an applicant for a personal marijuana cultivation permit proposes to
conduct marijuana cultivation.
MARIJUANA DISTRIBUTION: Means the procurement, sale, and transport of marijuana
and marijuana products between entities licensed by the State of California,
whether such marijuana or marijuana products are used for recreational,
medical, or any other purposes.
MARIJUANA MANUFACTURING: Means any activity related to conducting the
production, preparation, propagation, or compounding of marijuana or marijuana
products either directly or indirectly or by extraction methods, or
independently by means of chemical synthesis, or by a combination of extraction
and chemical synthesis at a fixed location that packages or repackages
marijuana or marijuana products or labels or re-labels its container.
MARIJUANA PRODUCTS: Means marijuana that has undergone a process whereby the
plant material has been transformed into a concentrate, including, but not
limited to, concentrated cannabis, or an edible or topical product containing
marijuana or concentrated cannabis and other ingredients.
MARIJUANA TRANSPORTATION: Means the transfer of marijuana or marijuana products
from the business location of one State licensee to the business location of
another State licensee.
PERSON: Includes any individual, firm, co-partnership, joint venture,
association, corporation, limited liability company, estate, trust, business
trust, receiver, syndicate, or any other group or combination acting as a unit.
PRIMARY CAREGIVER: Has the same definition as provided for in Health and Safety
Code section 11362.7(d), and as may be amended, defined in part as: the
individual, designated by a qualified patient or by a person with an
identification card, who has consistently assumed responsibility for the
housing, health, or safety of that patient or person.
PRIVATE RESIDENCE: Has the same definition as provided for in Health and Safety
Code section 11362.2(b)(5), and as may be amended, defined as: a house, an
apartment unit, a mobile home, or other similar dwelling.
QUALIFIED PATIENT: Has the same definition as provided for in Health and Safety
Code section 11362.7(f), and as may be amended, defined as: a person who is
entitled to the protections of Section 11362.5, but who does not have an
identification card issued pursuant to this article. (Ord. 268, 7-18-2017; amd.
Ord. 284, 5-21-2019)
9.53.030: MARIJUANA DISPENSARIES:
   A.   Except as provided in paragraph C, marijuana dispensary is not a
permitted use and is prohibited in all zones throughout the Town. No permit or
any other applicable license or entitlement for use, nor any business license,
shall be approved or issued for the establishment, maintenance, or operation of
a marijuana dispensary within the Town except as provided in paragraph C.
   B.   The prohibition in paragraph A explicitly prohibits, without
limitation, any use or activity that may be authorized under a State license
described in Business and Professions Code sections 26050(a)(18) and (20), as
amended.
   C.   Medicinal marijuana dispensaries that operate under a M-Type 9 (non-
storefront retailer) license from the Department of Cannabis Control, as such
license type may be amended or renamed from time to time, are a permitted use
by right for existing developments and Site Plan Review (SPR) for new
developments in the I (Industrial) and OTI/C (Old Town Industrial/Commercial)
zones. Adult-use marijuana dispensaries operating under an A-Type 9 or mixed A
& M-Type 9 license are prohibited, as are all marijuana dispensaries operating
under a Type 10 (storefront retailer) State license. A permitted non-storefront
medicinal marijuana dispensary shall comply with the following requirements:
      1.   The use shall not be located within 600 feet of a day care center, a
youth center, a preschool, or a public or private school. The distance
specified herein shall be measured in a straight line, without regard to
intervening structures or topography, from the nearest point on the property
line on which the cannabis business is or will be located, to the nearest
property line of the parcel where such use is located.
      2.   The premises must be equipped with an odor absorbing ventilation and
exhaust system so that odor generated inside the marijuana dispensary that is
distinctive to its operation is not detected outside the premises, anywhere on
adjacent property or public rights-of-way, on or about any exterior or interior
common area walkways, hallways, breeze-ways, foyers, lobby areas, or any other
areas available for common use by tenants or the visiting public, or within any
other unit located within the same building as the business. As such, a
marijuana dispensary must install and maintain the following equipment or any
other equipment which the Town determines has the same or better effectiveness:
         a.   An exhaust air filtration system with odor control that prevents
internal odors from being emitted externally; or
         b.   An air system that creates negative air pressure between the
businesses’ interior and exterior so that the odors generated inside the
business are not detectable outside the business.
      3.   Marijuana, marijuana products, and marijuana paraphernalia shall not
be visible from the exterior of the use.
      4.   The use shall comply with all State laws and regulations governing
the retail sale and delivery of marijuana and the operation and licensure of
marijuana businesses. A violation of any State law or regulation shall be
deemed a violation of this code. (Ord. 268, 7-18-2017; Ord. 307, 12-5-2023)
9.53.040: MARIJUANA CULTIVATION PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION:
   A.   Marijuana cultivation is not a permitted use and is prohibited in all
zones throughout the Town. No permit or any other applicable license or
entitlement for use, nor any business license shall be approved or issued for
marijuana cultivation within the Town.
   B.   This section explicitly prohibits, without limitation, any marijuana
cultivation in the Town that may be authorized under a State license described
in Business and Professions Code sections 26050(a)(1) through (13) or (19), as
amended, as well as any marijuana cultivation in the Town that may be
authorized under a State license issued pursuant to Business and Professions
Code sections 19300.7(a) through (j).
   C.   Pursuant to California State law, no person or entity may cultivate
marijuana at any location in the Town, except that a person may cultivate no
more than six (6) living marijuana plants inside his or her private residence,
or inside an accessory structure to his or her private residence located upon
the grounds of that private residence. All marijuana cultivation must not be
visible from anywhere outside the residence or accessory structure and shall
not produce odors, sounds or other emissions that are sensible from surrounding
properties which may indicate marijuana cultivation. All marijuana cultivation
shall comply with State and local laws including, but not limited to, Health
and Safety Code section 11362.2 as that provision may be amended subsequently.
(Ord. 268, 7-18-2017; amd. Ord. 284, 5-21-2019)
9.53.050: MARIJUANA DELIVERIES PROHIBITED:
(Rep. by Ord. 307, 12-5-2023)
9.53.060: ADDITIONAL PROHIBITED MARIJUANA USES:
   A.   Marijuana Manufacturing Prohibited:
      1.   Marijuana manufacturing is not a permitted use and is prohibited in
all zones throughout the Town. No permit or any other applicable license or
entitlement for use, nor any business license, shall be approved or issued for
marijuana manufacturing within the Town.
      2.   This subsection A explicitly prohibits, without limitation, any
marijuana manufacturing in the Town that may be authorized under a State
license described in Business and Professions Code sections 26050(a)(14) or
(15), as amended, as well as any marijuana manufacturing in the Town that may
be authorized under a State license described in Business and Professions Code
sections 19300.7(k) or (l), as amended.
   B.   Marijuana Testing Prohibited:
      1.   Marijuana testing is not a permitted use and is prohibited in all
zones throughout the Town. No permit or any other applicable license or
entitlement for use, nor any business license, shall be approved or issued for
marijuana testing within the Town.
      2.   This subsection B explicitly prohibits, without limitation, any
marijuana testing in the Town that may be authorized under a State license
described in Business and Professions Code section 26050(a)(16), as amended, as
well as any marijuana testing in the Town that may be authorized under a State
license described in Business and Professions Code section 19300.7(m).
   C.   Marijuana Distribution Prohibited:
      1.   Marijuana distribution is not a permitted use and is prohibited in
all zones throughout the Town. No permit or any other applicable license or
entitlement for use, nor any business license, shall be approved or issued for
marijuana distribution within the Town.
      2.   Except as provided below, this subsection C explicitly prohibits,
without limitation, any marijuana distribution in the Town that may be
authorized under a State license described in Business and Professions Code
sections 26050(a)(18), as amended, as well as any marijuana distribution in the
Town that may be authorized under a State license described in Business and
Professions Code section 19300.7(p), as amended. This subsection C does not
prohibit the transportation of marijuana or marijuana products on the public
roads in the Town. (Ord. 268, 7-18-2017; Ord. 307, 12-5-2023)
9.53.070: VIOLATION AND ENFORCEMENT; PUBLIC NUISANCE DECLARED:
   A.   A violation of this chapter or noncompliance with any of the
requirements of this chapter shall be subject to any criminal or civil
enforcement remedies available under the law and this Code. In addition, the
Town may prosecute a violation of this chapter by means of civil enforcement
through a restraining order, a preliminary or permanent injunction, or by any
other means authorized by law or equity. Notwithstanding any other provision of
this Code, no conduct which is protected from criminal liability pursuant to
State law shall be made criminal by this chapter.
   B.   Any violation of the provisions of this chapter is declared to be a
public nuisance and may be abated by the Town either pursuant to this Code,
including but not limited to procedures provided for in title 6,
chapter 6.04, "Abatement Of Public Nuisances", of this Code or any other
available remedies at law or equity.
   C.   Any person violating or causing or permitting the violation of any of
the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 268, 7-
18-2017)
CHAPTER 9.54
SHORT-TERM VACATION RENTALS
(Rep. by Ord. 300, 3-1-2022)
CHAPTER 9.55
SIDEWALK VENDING
SECTION:
9.55.010: Purpose
9.55.020: Definitions
9.55.030: Business Registration Required
9.55.040: Permit Required
9.55.050: Roadside Vending
9.55.060: Sidewalk Vending - Application Requirements
9.55.070: Sidewalk Vending - Operational Requirements
9.55.080: Sidewalk Vending - Residential Areas
9.55.090: Sidewalk Vending - Prohibition On Placement Of Stationary Or Mobile
Carts
9.55.100: Sidewalk Vending - Special Events
9.55.110: Sidewalk Vending - Fines
9.55.120: Sidewalk Vending - Removal Of Cart
9.55.130: Permit Renewal
9.55.140: Denial, Revocation Or Suspension Of Permits
9.55.150: Appeal Hearings
9.55.160: Public Nuisance Declaration
9.55.010: PURPOSE:
   A.   The purpose of this Chapter is to establish a roadside and sidewalk
vending program within the boundaries of the Town of Yucca Valley. The
requirements set forth in this Chapter are intended to protect the public's
health, safety and welfare by ensuring that vendors on public property provide
and sanitary conditions for consumers and the general public, are adequately
insured and are properly licensed with other agencies.
   B.   The Town of Yucca Valley hereby finds that limitations on roadside and
sidewalk vending are necessary to:
      1.   Comply with State legislation;
      2.   Promote the public's health, safety and welfare;
      3.   Ensure that the goals and policies of the Town's general plan are
upheld;
      4.   Ensure that the flow of pedestrian or vehicular traffic, including
ingress into and egress from, any residence, public building, or place of
business, or from the street to the sidewalk by persons exiting or entering
parked or standing vehicles is maintained;
      5.   Provide reasonable access for the use and maintenance of sidewalks,
pathways, hydrants, restrooms, trash receptacles, firefighting apparatus, as
well as access to locations used for public transportation services;
      6.   Protect the quality of life of Town residents and minimize
disruptions to the quite enjoyment of residential property by restricting
noise-making devices associated with roadside and sidewalk vending; and
      7.   Ensure no interference to the performance of police, firefighter,
and emergency medical personnel services. (Ord. 286, 11-19-2019)
9.55.020: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions apply to this Chapter:
                            Any pushcart, stand, display, pedal-driven cart,
CART:                       wagon, showcase, rack, or other non-motorized
                            conveyance, and includes a stationary cart or a
                            mobile cart.
DIRECTOR:                   The Town Manager or his or her designee.
FOOD:                       Any type of edible substance or beverage.
GOODS OR MERCHANDISE:       Any item that is not food.
HEALTH DEPARTMENT:          The San Bernardino County Department of
                            Environmental Health.
                            A pushcart, pedal-driven cart, wagon, or other non-
MOBILE CART:                motorized, conveyance used by a roaming sidewalk
                            vendor.
                            A permit related to sidewalk vending or mobile food
PERMIT:                     vending that is issued in accordance with this
                            Chapter.
                            The fee charged for issuance of the permit related
PERMIT FEE:                 to sidewalk vending or mobile food vending, that is
                            issued in accordance with this Chapter.
                            One or more natural persons, individuals, groups,
                            businesses, business trusts, companies,
                            corporations, joint ventures, joint stock
                            companies, partnerships, entities, associations,
PERSON OR PERSONS:          clubs or organizations composed of two (2) or more
                            individuals (or the manager, lessee, agent,
                            servant, officer or employee of any of them),
                            whether engaged in business, nonprofit or any other
                            activity.
                            Any public or private street within a residential
RESIDENTIAL STREET:         district as defined within Vehicle Code section
                            515.
                            Has the same meaning as set forth in Government
ROAMING SIDEWALK VENDOR:    Code section 51036(b) and includes a sidewalk
                            vendor who moves from place to place and stops only
                            to complete a transaction.
SIDEWALK:                   Any surface in the public right-of-way provided for
                            the use of pedestrians.
SIDEWALK VENDING PROGRAM:   The program established by this Chapter that is
                            applicable to sidewalk vending-related activities.
                            Has the same meaning as set forth in Government
                            Code section 51036(a) and includes a person who
                            sells food or merchandise from a pushcart, stand,
SIDEWALK VENDOR:            display, pedal-driven cart, wagon, showcase, rack,
                            or other non-motorized conveyance, or from one's
                            person, upon a public sidewalk or other pedestrian
                            path.
                            A pushcart, stand, display, pedal-driven cart,
                            wagon, showcase, rack, or other non-motorized
STATIONARY CART:            conveyance, that is intended to be operated from a
                            fixed location by a stationary sidewalk vendor
                            instead of being moved from place to place, where
                            stops are limited to completing a transaction.
                            Has the same meaning as set forth in Government
STATIONARY SIDEWALK VENDOR: Code section 51036(c) and includes a sidewalk
                            vendor who vends from a fixed location.
VEHICLE:                    A motorized vehicle as defined in Vehicle Code
                            section 670.
VENDING:                    The offering or displaying for sale or selling of
                            any food, merchandise, goods, or wares.
 
(Ord. 286, 11-19-2019; Ord. 319, 11-5-2024)
9.55.030:   BUSINESS REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
No sidewalk vendor or roadside vendor may operate anywhere within the Town
without first obtaining a business registration. (Ord. 286, 11-19-2019)
9.55.040:   PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   No sidewalk vendor or roadside vendor may vend anywhere within the Town
without first obtaining a permit pursuant to this Chapter.
   B.   No permit will confer entitlement or exclusive right to operate at a
specified location within the Town.
   C.   A permit is required for each cart, stationary cart, or stationary
sidewalk vendor display at a fixed location.
   D.   Each application for a permit shall be accompanied by a non-refundable
permit processing fee established by resolution of the Town Council.
   E.   Permits will expire one year after the date of issuance.
   F.   Permits are not transferable. (Ord. 286, 11-19-2019)
9.55.050:   ROADSIDE VENDING:
   A.   Mobile Food Vendors:
      Authority: Section
9.55.050 is adopted pursuant to the authority granted to the Town of Yucca
Valley by Section 22455 of the California Vehicle Code, which permits local
authorities to regulate the type of vending and the time, place and manner of
vending from vehicles upon the street in order to promote public safety.
      For purposes of this Section
9.55.050, the following words or phrases shall have the following meanings:
      1.   Mobile Food Vendor: A person that operates or assists in the
operation of a mobile food truck/vending vehicle.
      2.   Mobile Food Truck/Vending Vehicle: Any motorized device or vehicle
by which any person or property may be propelled or moved upon a highway, or
any device which is towed by a motorized device or vehicle, from which food or
food products are prepared, sold, offered for sale, displayed, bartered,
exchanged or otherwise given.
      3.   Food Truck Event: A community event which includes a consortium of
mobile food vendors devoted to the sale of prepared food products primarily for
consumption in the immediate vicinity for a specified, pre-determined period of
time at a specified, pre-determined location.
      4.   Vendor: A person who vends, including an employee or agent of a
vendor.
   B.   Regulations For Vending From Mobile Vending Facility On Private
Property:
      All vendors operating or conducting any business from a mobile vending
facility on private property in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter
shall:
      1.   Comply with the zoning ordinances applicable to the private property
and all land use entitlements for the private property;
      2.   Unless vending from a mobile vending facility is otherwise
authorized by the land use entitlements for the private property, obtain from
the Town a Temporary Use Permit. The Planning Commission shall review the
Temporary Use Permit. The Temporary Use Permit may be issued for a term not to
exceed twelve (12) months and shall expire twelve (12) months from the date of
approval. The application for any such permit shall require the consent of the
property owner for such a use and the Community Development Director shall
verify such consent. Such permits shall include such conditions as are
necessary to ensure compliance with this Chapter and compatibility with the
surrounding uses;
         a.   Not vend within ten feet (10') of any other vendor on the
property;
         b.   Not vend upon any private property within three hundred feet
(300') of the nearest property line of any property on which a school building
is located between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and five thirty
o'clock (5:30) P.M. on any school day.
         c.   If the applicant is a mobile food vending facility, possess at
all times while vending an unexpired and unrevoked annual mobile food facility
permit issued by the San Bernardino County Department of Environmental Health
and an unexpired and unrevoked food manager and food handler certification
issued by the San Bernardino County Department of Environmental Health;
         d.   Possess at all times while vending an unexpired and unrevoked
permit issued pursuant to this Chapter;
         e.   Possess at all times while vending any other permit as required
by any other appropriate governmental agency;
         f.   Comply with all applicable state and local laws, ordinances and
regulations including, without limitation, state food labeling and preparation
requirements, fire codes and regulations, and Americans with Disabilities Act
and regulation (State and Federal); and
         g.   Maintain a clearly designated waste receptacle in the immediate
vicinity of the motor vehicle and vending that is marked with a sign requesting
use by customers. Prior to leaving the vending location, the vendor shall pick
up, remove and dispose of all trash generated by the vendor's operation located
within a twenty-five foot (25') radius of the vending location.
         h.   Sales from a mobile food truck/vending vehicle shall occur only
within the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. of
the same day.
         i.   No vendor shall locate within two hundred feet (200') of any
other existing business, measured from the vending area to the nearest building
wall of said business, that sells similar products or any other licensed vendor
operating during the applicable vending hours specified in this chapter
   C.   Regulations For Food Truck Events:
      Food Truck Events. This section sets forth additional procedures for
approval of food truck events, as defined herein. If any provision conflicts or
is inconsistent with other code sections; interpretation shall first seek to
apply both provisions in the conjunctive, or otherwise seek the more
restrictive interpretation.
      Two (2) or more food trucks operating on the same property or food truck
participation as an accessory to any community event, regardless of the number
of participating trucks, shall be considered a "food truck event" and shall be
subject to the regulations herein described. A proposed community event shall
not be denied solely on the basis of food truck participation; however, the
food truck portion of a proposed event may be denied, conditioned or reduced in
accordance with the regulations of this section.
      1.   Findings Of Fact: To approve a permit for a food truck event, or
other events that include participation of one or more food trucks, the
Director must find the following:
         a.   The proposed site is suitable for a food truck event considering
its location, the size of the event (number of vendor participants), impact on
parking and circulation, and any other factors determined by the Director of
Community Development, with input from other appropriate Town departments.
         b.   Sufficient restroom facilities shall be located no farther than
five hundred feet (500') from the food truck event;
         c.   The maximum number of participant food trucks shall be limited to
one truck per thirty (30) parking spaces on site or available to the event.
Where trucks can be parked and do not block or impede access to striped parking
spaces or drive aisles, those trucks shall require twenty five (25) parking
spaces per truck.
         d.   Any potential incompatibility between the activity proposed to
properties in the vicinity can be attenuated, and the food truck event does not
present an unwarranted noise or traffic burden. Conditions of approval may
include, when deemed necessary by the Director of Community Development:
limiting the number of vendors, operating hours, and/or operating days to
minimize any incompatibility to the surrounding neighborhood.
         e.   The food truck event shall be operated safely and in accordance
with all applicable laws and regulations.
         f.   The food truck event shall not unreasonably burden Town resources
necessary to protect the security and welfare of the public.
         g.   In addition to the requirements for a permit, an application for
a food truck event must include the following:
            (1)   An accurate, scaled site plan showing the proposed layout of
the food truck event, including the placement of participant vehicles, on-site
parking, and circulation;
            (2)   The applicant's responses to all required findings of fact;
            (3)   The lease, license, or other agreement between the applicant
and the owner and/or business of the subject property approving such event;
            (4)   The rules for participant vendors, which demonstrate the
applicant's knowledge of applicable laws and regulations and commitment to
their enforcement;
            (5)   The written agreement between the applicant and the owner
and/or business that will allow the patrons of the food truck event to use
nearby restroom facilities;
            (6)   The written agreement between the applicant the underlying
property owner on which the business is to be conducted;
            (7)   A statement confirming that the food truck event will be
operated safely and in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations; and
            (8)   A list of participating vendors which includes the business
name, owners, address, and phone number.
      2.   The holder of the event permit is responsible to ensure that each
participating vendor at all permitted events has a valid and current Yucca
Valley business license and permit.
      3.   Applications for a food truck event permit must be made by a
Temporary Special Event Application (TSEP) and must be accompanied by payment
of the appropriate license and permit fees, and may be subject to conditions
pursuant to Town of Yucca Valley Development Code,
Chapter 9.71 and any new or revised conditions that may arise based on a review
of previous permits, if any. Approved permits shall set forth the date and
operating hours, conditions of approval, and other operating rules and
restrictions.
      4.   In addition to the regulations for mobile food vendors in this code,
each food truck event shall adhere to the following, regulations for vending
from vehicle.
         a.   Each operator of a mobile food truck/vending vehicle shall
possess and at all times display in conspicuous view upon each such vehicle a
Town business license and permit issued pursuant to this section.
         b.   No mobile food truck/vending vehicle shall be parked, stopped, or
left standing in any manner which blocks or impedes vehicular access to any
driveway or restricts the free movement of emergency vehicles upon the area of
the food truck event.
         c.   Each mobile food truck/vending vehicle shall be equipped with
trash and recycling receptacles of sizes adequate to accommodate all trash and
refuse generated by such vending.
         d.   Each vendor or the food truck event organizer or applicant shall
pick-up and deposit in the trash receptacle any paper, cups, wrappers, litter
or other refuse of any kind which were a part of the goods or merchandise
supplied from the vehicle and which have been left or abandoned within twenty-
five feet (25') of such vehicle on any public or private property.
         e.   Each vendor or the food truck organizer or applicant shall not
dispose of any trash or refuse in any public or private trash receptacle unless
specific written authorization is obtained from the property owner or his/her
authorized representative.
         f.   The food truck event organizer or applicant shall make a five
thousand dollars ($5,000.00) deposit with the submission of the application for
the food truck event to ensure the premises are free of trash and debris after
each day's activities. If the site is free of debris, as required, the five
thousand dollars ($5,000.00) shall be returned in whole or in part after the
event. The deposit may be used to offset direct costs incurred by the Town
related to enforcement or cleanup activities.
         g.   No vending shall be permitted until the vehicle is parked and
trash and recycling receptacles and other features are established in
accordance with the Town-approved scaled site plan showing the proposed layout
of the food truck event.
   D.   Regulations For Mobile Food Trucks/Vending Vehicles In The Public
Right-Of-Way:
      1.   A mobile food vendor may locate its vehicle in the public right-of-
way as long as the mobile food vendor adheres to the following standards and
conditions:
         a.   The mobile food truck/vending vehicle is in full compliance with
all parking and Vehicle Code provisions which apply to the location at which it
is parked.
         b.   The mobile food truck/vending vehicle does not obstruct
pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
         c.   Vending is prohibited on the exposed street and/or traffic side
of the mobile food truck/vending vehicle.
         d.   A mobile food vendor shall not distribute any item from the
mobile food truck/vending vehicle in a manner that causes any person to stand
in that portion of the street that is between the vehicle and the center of the
street.
         e.   A mobile food vendor shall not encroach onto a public sidewalk
with any part of its vending vehicle or any other equipment or furniture
related to the operation of its business.
         f.   A mobile food vendor shall not keep, maintain or operate any
mobile food truck/vending vehicle upon any public street, parkway, alley, or
highway within one thousand (1,000') of the boundaries of any public or private
school between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and five thirty o'clock
(5:30) P.M. on any day when such school is in session.
         g.   A mobile food vendor must have a valid business license and
Temporary Use Permit from the Town.
         h.   A mobile food vendor must have a valid Public Health Operating
Permit, Operators Food Handler's Certificate, Food Vehicle Certificate Sticker,
and Seller's Permit.
         i.   All food products sold or provided from the mobile food truck/
vending vehicle shall comply with all applicable food labeling requirements
established by the State of California.
         j.   No mobile food vendor shall engage in vending unless he or she
maintains clearly designated litter and recycling receptacles in the immediate
vicinity of the mobile food truck/vending vehicle, marked with a sign
requesting use by patrons. Prior to leaving the location, the mobile food
vendor shall pick up, remove and dispose of all trash generated by the mobile
food vendor's operation located within a twenty five foot (25') radius of the
mobile food vendor's location.
         k.   A mobile food vendor shall not operate within 50 feet of any
street intersection controlled by a crosswalk, traffic light, or stop sign.
         l.   Sales from a mobile food truck/vending vehicle shall occur only
within the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. of
the same day.
         m.   Sales from a mobile food truck/vending vehicle shall occur only
when sidewalks exist along the public roadway.
         n.   The mobile food vendor must be in compliance with Health and
Safety Code Section 114315(a), in that the facility shall be operated within
two hundred feet (200') travel distance of an available toilet and hand washing
facility when it is stopped to conduct business for more than a one hour
period.
         o.   The mobile food vendor shall not discharge any liquid (e.g.,
water, grease, oil, etc.) onto or into Town streets, storm drains, catch
basins, or sewer facilities. All discharges shall be contained and properly
disposed of by the mobile food vendor.
         p.   A vending vehicle may not stand or park in the public right-of-
way between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M.
in commercial and industrial zones. A vending vehicle may not stand or park in
the public right-of-way in residential zones not inclusive of overlay zones,
except as otherwise allowed by this code.
         q.   The mobile food vendor shall have a valid permit issued by the
San Bernardino County Department of Environmental Health Services. All required
County Health permits must be in the possession of the mobile food vendor at
all times during times which it operates within the Town.
         r.   If the applicant will use a motor vehicle to vend on public
streets or rights-of-way, proof of business automobile liability insurance,
with minimum combined single limits coverage of two million ($2,000,000.00)
dollars in a form approved by the Town Manager.
         s.   In addition to any proof of automobile liability insurance that
may be required by subsection (i), all applicants shall provide proof of
general liability insurance with minimum combined single limits coverage of two
million ($2,000,000.00) dollars and naming the Town as an "Additional Insured"
in a form approved by the Town Manager.
         t.   No alcohol beverage, general merchandise or commercial sales
other than food are permitted, other than company merchandise.
         u.   Vending of cannabis products of any kind is prohibited.
         v.   Vending is prohibited from a food vending vehicle that is parked,
stopped, or standing on any public street, alley, or highway where the posted
speed limit on the public street, alley, or highway is thirty-five (35) miles
per hour or greater.
         w.   No vendor shall locate within two hundred feet (200') of any
other existing business, measured from the vending area to the nearest building
wall of said business, that sells similar products or any other licensed vendor
operating during the applicable vending hours specified in this chapter.
         x.   No amplified music or loudspeakers shall be permitted. The
operation shall at all times comply with the provisions of the Town's noise
ordinance.
   E.   Selling Ice Cream And Certain Food Products From Vehicles In Public
Streets:
      1.   No person shall peddle, hawk, sell, vend or offer for sale ice
cream; ice cream bars, cones or rolls; sherbet:.sherbet bars, cones or rolls;
iced fruit juice (natural or artificial) bars, cones or rolls; the food product
commonly known as "cotton candy" or other spun sugar type confections; candy;
carbonated drinks; or other similar food substances, products or beverages
packaged or otherwise prepared or designed for an individual person's
consumption, from a vehicle stopped or parked on any public street, way or
alley within a residential zone not inclusive of overlay zones or a park within
the Town of Yucca Valley, unless it is in conjunction with a Town event or
Town-associated event and/or that person and/or business has been specifically
licensed and permitted by the Town to do so. This Section does not prohibit
street vending of other products from vehicles in residential districts.
         a.   Subject to a Temporary Use Permit a person or business may engage
in selling ice cream and certain food products pursuant to Section
9.55.050 from a lawfully parked vehicle on a residential street not inclusive
of overlay zones. This activity is not allowed on non-residential streets;
         b.   No person vending from a lawfully parked vehicle shall operate
any time from one-half hour after sunset to one-half hour before sunrise and
any other time when visibility is not sufficient to render clearly discernible
any person or vehicle on the highway at a distance of one thousand feet
(1,000'), unless in conjunction with a special event as set forth in this Code;
         c.   No person shall engage in vending from a lawfully parked vehicle
at one fixed location longer than necessary to complete a sales transaction.
Such sale shall not exceed five (5) minutes;
         d.   A roadside vendor shall maintain a clean and trash-free area
within a ten foot (25') radius around the vendor's vehicle and shall ensure
that such area is clean and trash-free before moving the vehicle to a new
location.
         e.   Any vendor engaged in the retail sale of food shall obtain a food
facility permit from the Health Department prior to obtaining a business
registration from the Town.
         f.   A vendor shall comply with otherwise applicable laws, including
permitting and zoning requirements.
         g.   No vendor shall locate within two hundred feet (200') of any
other existing business, measured from the vending area to the nearest building
wall of said business, that sells similar products or any other licensed vendor
operating during the applicable vending hours specified in this chapter
   F.   Regulation For Peddling From Vehicles In Parks: No person shall peddle,
hawk, sell or vend any food product or service from a vehicle within any Town
park at any time, unless authorized in writing by the park authority to do so
pursuant to Town of Yucca Valley Municipal Code, Title 11,
Chapter 11.80 Use of Park Facilities.
(Ord. 286, 11-19-2019; Ord. 319, 11-5-2024)
9.55.060:   SIDEWALK VENDING - APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
To obtain a sidewalk vending permit, an applicant must provide the following as
part of their application:
   A.   Valid identification, such as a State of California identification, or
any other government-issued identification card;
   B.   The name, address and telephone number of the sidewalk vendor;
   C.   The name, address, and telephone number of all persons that will be
employed as roaming sidewalk vendors or at a stationary sidewalk vending cart;
   D.   Proposed hours of operation;
   E.   Proposed location of operation;
   F.   Whether the sidewalk vendor intends to operate a stationary cart or a
mobile cart;
   G.   The type of food or merchandise offered for sale or exchange;
   H.   Application for business registration;
   I.   Proof of liability insurance;
   J.   An application fee as set forth by resolution of the Town Council;
   K.   A valid California Department of Tax and Fee Administration seller's
permit and additional licenses from State or local agencies to the extent
required by law;
   L.   Proof of completion of a food handler course and a copy of the course
completion certificate, if applicable;
   M.   A permit from the Health Department for food-relating vending, if
applicable;
   N.   A declaration that the information provided to the Town is true and
correct; and
   O.   Any other information or applicable permits, including operations-
related information, as may be required by this Code. (Ord. 286, 11-19-2019)
9.55.070:   SIDEWALK VENDING - OPERATIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   A cart used for sidewalk vending must obtain and prominently display a
valid permit and all other permits issued by other public agencies.
   B.   A cart used for sidewalk vending must be placed and used at all times
in compliance with the terms and conditions of the permit and all other
applicable laws and regulations, including the California Retail Food Code if
food is sold.
   C.   A cart must operate according to its approved hours of operations. No
sidewalk vendor will operate anywhere in the Town between the hours of ten
o'clock (10:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. daily. Roaming sidewalk
vendors in residential areas shall not operate any time from one-half hour
after sunset to one-half hour before sunrise.
   D.   No cart, condiment table or trash receptacle may be left on the
sidewalk after the sidewalk vendor's stated closing time.
   E.   Sidewalk vendors must not operate alongside any public roadways or
streets where no paved sidewalk is available.
   F.   All sidewalk vendors shall allow Town enforcement officers, County
health inspectors or other government officials to inspect their sidewalk
vending activities at any time.
   G.   No vendor cart may exceed a length of seventy two inches (72"), a width
of fifty four inches (54"), or a height, including any roof, awning, or
umbrella, of eighty inches (80").
   H.   No sidewalk vendor shall use an electrical outlet or water supply that
is owned by the Town or another person or entity other than the sidewalk
vendor, nor shall they use propane or electric generators.
   I.   No sidewalk vendor that utilizes a pushcart may set up or use an
additional structure, including a table, crate, carton, or rack, to increase
the selling or display capacity of the cart unless such items are explicitly
allowed in the permit obtained by the sidewalk vendor.
   J.   All sidewalk vendors shall provide a trash receptacle for customers and
must ensure proper disposal of customer trash. The trash receptacle must be
large enough to accommodate customer trash without resorting to existing trash
receptacles located on any block for use by the general public. A sidewalk
vendor may not dispose of customer trash in existing trash receptacles on
sidewalks.
   K.   All sidewalk vendors shall maintain a clean and trash-free area within
a ten foot (10') radius around the vendor's cart during hours of operation and
shall ensure that such area is clean and trash-free before relocating or
closing.
   L.   No cart may be outfitted with any equipment or mechanism that endangers
or detracts from the health, safety, or welfare of the public by causing an
excessive distraction to motorists or interfering with nearby residences,
business, or pedestrians, including, but not limited to, sound amplification,
flashing lights, smoke, steam, and bubbles. Signs associated with the sidewalk
vendor must comply with the Town's Sign Ordinance. (Ord. 286, 11-19-2019)
9.55.080:   SIDEWALK VENDING - RESIDENTIAL AREAS:
No stationary cart may be used to vend within a residential zoned area.
However, a sidewalk vendor may use a mobile cart within a residential zone and
must move continuously except when necessary to complete a sale. (Ord. 286, 11-
19-2019)
9.55.090:   SIDEWALK VENDING - PROHIBITION ON PLACEMENT OF STATIONARY OR MOBILE
CARTS:
   A.   No sidewalk vendor may place or leave any cart, canopy, merchandise
displays, perishables, or other items relating to vendor's business in a manner
that obstructs vehicular or pedestrian traffic, or the visibility of such, and
includes the following:
      1.   Within four feet (4') from the edge of the curb;
      2.   Within ten feet (10') of a marked crosswalk, the curb return of an
unmarked crosswalk, or a driveway or driveway apron;
      3.   Within twenty five feet (25') of an entrance or exit to a building,
structure or facility;
      4.   Within thirty feet (30') of any fire hydrant;
      5.   Within two hundred fifty feet (250') of another sidewalk vendor;
      6.   Within five hundred feet (500') of Town hall, fire stations, law
enforcement stations, civic center, anywhere public safety personnel is
actively performing duties, places of worship from one hour before until one
hour after services or other public events, or a public or private school or
daycare facility between the hours of six o'clock (6:00) A.M. and six o'clock
(6:00) P.M.;
      7.   Where placement impedes the flow of vehicular traffic such as on
public streets or public highways;
      8.   Adjacent to any marked loading zone or bus zone;
      9.   No cart may be stored, parked, or left overnight on any public
street or right-of-way, or in any public park; and
      10.   Where placement impedes the flow of pedestrian traffic by reducing
the clear space to less than four feet (4') or impedes access to or the use of
abutting property, including, but not limited to, residences and places of
business, in accordance with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA).
   B.   No cart may be chained or fastened to any pole, sign, tree, or other
object in the public right-of-way or left unattended.
   C.   Notwithstanding any specific prohibitions in this Section, no sidewalk
vendor may install, use or maintain a cart where placement endangers the safety
of persons or property. (Ord. 286, 11-19-2019)
9.55.100:   SIDEWALK VENDING - SPECIAL EVENTS:
No sidewalk vending is allowed within on thousand feet (1,000) of a permitted
special event during the duration or operating hours of such an event.
Permitted events include certified farmers' markets, swap meets, and any event
that requires the temporary use of, or encroachment on, the sidewalk or other
public area, including, but not limited to, an encroachment permit, special
event permit, or temporary event permits. (Ord. 286, 11-19-2019)
9.55.110:   SIDEWALK VENDING - FINES:
Sidewalk vending in violation of this Chapter will not be punishable as a
criminal infraction or misdemeanor, but will be subject to an administrative
citation as follows:
   A.   For vending without a valid license or permit:
      1.   An administrative fine of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for a
first violation;
      2.   An administrative fine of five hundred dollars ($500.00) for a
second violation within one year of the first violation;
      3.   An administrative fine of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for a
third violation and each subsequent violation, within one year of the first
violation;
      4.   Upon proof of a valid permit issued by the Town before such fines
are due, the Town will reduce the amount of the fines to one hundred dollars
($100.00) for the first violation, two hundred dollars ($200.00) for the second
violation, and five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each violation thereafter.
   B.   For all violations of this Chapter other than vending without a valid
license or permit as outlined in Subsection A above:
      1.   An administrative fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for a first
violation;
      2.   An administrative fine of two hundred dollars ($200.00) for a second
violation within one year of the first violation;
      3.   An administrative fine of five hundred dollars ($500.00) for a third
violation within one year of the first violation;
      4.   An administration fine of five hundred dollars ($500.00) for a
fourth and each subsequent violation and revocation of the license or permit.
   C.   The Town will provide the person subject to the fine notice of his or
her right to request an ability-to-pay determination and will make available
instructions or other materials for requesting an ability-to-pay determination.
   D.   Fines assessed pursuant this Section may be reduced to twenty percent
(20%) of the original fine amount upon submission of proof of inability to pay
at an adjudication hearing if requested by the person pursuant to Government
Code section 51038(f).
   E.   Fines collected under this Section will be deposited with the Town's
treasury for general use. (Ord. 286, 11-19-2019)
9.55.120:   SIDEWALK VENDING - REMOVAL OF CART:
The Town may request the sidewalk vendor remove any cart if the cart is
creating an imminent safety hazard or is placed within a prohibited area as set
forth in this Chapter. If the sidewalk vendor refuses to remove the cart, or if
the cart has been abandoned, the Town may remove the cart and/or dispose of the
cart, after providing at least thirty (30) days' notice of redemption to the
address associated with the cart, if any. (Ord. 286, 11-19-2019)
9.55.130:   PERMIT RENEWAL:
   A.   To renew a permit for sidewalk vending or roadside vending, an
applicant must provide all the information as set forth in Section
9.55.060.
   B.   A person whose permit is revoked may not renew their permit for one
year. (Ord. 286, 11-19-2019)
9.55.140:   DENIAL, REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF PERMITS:
   A.   In addition to any other reason provided for in this Chapter, a permit
may be denied, suspended or revoked when it has been determined that the
applicant.
      1.   Has not complied with the applicable provisions of this Chapter four
(4) or more times; or
      2.   Has knowingly made a false statement of fact in an application for
such permit; or
      3.   Has payment of any administrative fine that remains outstanding; or
      4.   Has engaged in activity that presents an objective threat to the
public health, safety, or welfare.
   B.   From the time of the revocation or suspension of a permit granted under
the provisions of this Chapter, it is unlawful for any person whose permit has
been suspended or revoked to operate within Town boundaries until a new permit
has been procured or the period of suspension has expired. It is also unlawful
for any person to operate within the Town during the period of time that a
permit has been revoked, terminated or suspended. (Ord. 286, 11-19-2019)
9.55.150:   APPEAL HEARINGS:
   A.   Any person aggrieved by any determination under the provisions of this
Chapter shall be entitled to appeal that decision as provided herein.
   B.   Any recipient of an administrative citation may contest that there was
a regulatory violation or that he or she is the responsible party.
   C.   Any interested person may appeal a decision of the director regarding
an application for or revocation of a permit for sidewalk vending, roadside
vending, canvassing, peddling, hawking, or soliciting by filing with the Town
Clerk a complete notice of appeal within fifteen (15) days from the date notice
of such decision is mailed. To be deemed complete, the appeal must be in
writing, state the grounds for disagreement with the director's stated
decision, include the address to which notice is to be mailed, be signed under
penalty of perjury, and be accompanied by the filing fee established by Town
Council resolution.
   D.   If an appeal is timely filed, the Town Clerk will cause to be set a
date for the hearing of the appeal not more than thirty (30) days from the date
the appeal is received. The hearing will be a de novo hearing on the action
appealed from. At the hearing, the appellant will have the right to offer
testimonial, documentary, and tangible evidence bearing upon the issues. The
hearing officer will not be bound by the formal rules of evidence. Any hearing
under this Section may be continued for a reasonable time for the convenience
of a party or a witness.
   E.   The hearing officer will issue written findings and a decision within
ten (10) days of the conclusion of the hearing, and send notice of the decision
by certified mail to the appellant. The notice of the decision must include
reference to the appellant's right to prompt judicial review under California
Code of Civil Procedure section 1094.8.
   F.   The action by the hearing officer will be final unless timely judicial
review is sought pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure section 1094.8.
(Ord. 286, 11-19-2019)
9.55.160:   PUBLIC NUISANCE DECLARATION:
Any violation of this Chapter is declared to be unlawful and a public nuisance.
(Ord. 286, 11-19-2019)
CHAPTER 9.56
REMOVAL OF WESTERN JOSHUA TREES
SECTION:
9.56.010: Purpose
9.56.020: Definitions
9.56.030: Bi-Monthly Western Joshua Tree Mitigation Fund Payments
9.56.040: Bi-Monthly Western Joshua Tree Permitting Report
9.56.050: Annual Report On Survival of Western Joshua Trees
9.56.060: Permit Required And Take Permit Authorizations
9.56.070: Avoidance
9.56.080: Minimization
9.56.090: Relocation
9.56.100: Removal Of Western Joshua Trees
9.56.110: Mitigation Fees
9.56.120: Dead And Trimming Western Joshua Trees
9.56.130: Enforcement
9.56.010: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Chapter is to establish permitting standards and process
for the issuance of take permits for the Western Joshua Tree as authorized
pursuant to the Special Order approved by the California Fish and Game
Commission pursuant to Fish and Game Code section 2084 on December 10, 2020
("Special Order"). The Special Order was subsequently approved by the Office of
Administrative Law, and went into effect on January 7, 2021. The requirements
set forth in this Chapter are intended to protect the public's health, safety,
and welfare by ensuring that take permits for the Western Joshua Tree are only
issued consistent and compliant with the Special Order. (Ord. 291, 1-19-2021)
9.56.020: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions apply to this Chapter.
              Accessory structure means a subordinate structure, the use of which is
              incidental to an existing or contemporaneously constructed single-family
ACCESSORY     residence, and includes: an accessory dwelling unit, addition to an existing
STRUCTURE:    single-family residence, garage, carport, swimming pool, patio, greenhouse,
              storage shed, gazebo, septic tank, sewer connection, solar panels, or gravel
              or paved driveway.
DEPARTMENT:   Department means the Town of Yucca Valley Community Development Department.
              Desert native plant specialist means (A) An arborist certified by the
              International Society of Arborists; or (B) An individual with a four (4) year
DESERT NATIVE college degree in ecology or fish and wildlife related biological science from
PLANT         an accredited college and at least two (2) years of professional experience
SPECIALIST:   with relocation or restoration of native California desert vegetation; or (C)
              An individual with at least five (5) years of professional experience with
              relocation or restoration of native California desert vegetation.
DEVELOPED     Developed parcel means a parcel with an existing single-family residence.
PARCEL:
PARTICIPATING Participating agency means the Town of Yucca Valley.
AGENCY:
PROJECT       Project proponent means the owner of a project site for a single-family
PROPONENT:    residence or accessory structure or the owner's agent or the public agency
              undertaking a public works project.
              Project site means the parcel or parcels on which a project proponent proposes
PROJECT SITE: to construct a single-family residence or accessory structure or on which a
              public agency proposes to undertake a public works project.
PUBLIC WORKS  Public works project means a project for the erection, construction,
PROJECT:      alteration, maintenance, or repair of any public structure, building, or road.
              Single-family residence means a single detached building that has been or will
              be constructed and used as living facilities, including provisions for
SINGLE FAMILY sleeping, eating, cooking, and sanitation as required by the California
RESIDENCE:    Building Code for not more than one (1) household. Nothing in this section
              shall be construed to authorize take of western Joshua tree for a subdivision
              or other development that includes more than one (1) single-family residence.
              Size class means the classification of western Joshua trees by the following
SIZE CLASS:   three sizes: (A) Less than one (1) meter in height; (B) One (1) meter or
              greater but less than four (4) meters in height; and (C) Four (4) meters or
              greater in height.
UNDEVELOPED   Undeveloped parcel means a parcel without an existing single-family residence.
PARCEL:
              Western Joshua tree means an individual western Joshua tree (Yucca brevifolia)
WESTERN       that has emerged from the ground, regardless of age or size, including all
JOSHUA TREE:  stems that have emerged from the ground within a one (1) meter radius measured
              from a single point at the base of the largest stem.
WESTERN       Western Joshua Tree Mitigation Fund means the State Western Joshua Tree
JOSHUA TREE   Mitigation fund established pursuant to Section 14 Code Cal. Reg. § 749.10(a)
MITIGATION    (5). (Ord. 291, 1-19-2021)
FUND:
 
9.56.030: BI MONTHLY DEPOSITS TO THE WESTERN JOSHUA TREE MITIGATION FUND:
The Town shall make bi-monthly deposits to the Western Joshua Tree Mitigation
Fund, by the fifteenth day of March, May, July, September, November, and
January, of all mitigation fees collected during the preceding two (2) calendar
months. (Ord. 291, 1-19-2021)
9.56.040: BI-MONTHLY WESTERN JOSHUA TREE PERMITTING REPORT:
   A.   The Town shall submit to the State Fish and Wildlife Department by the
fifteenth day of March, May, July, September, November, and January a bi-
monthly report that includes the following information for the preceding two
(2) calendar months:
         1.   The number of projects approved by the Town pursuant to Section
9.56.070 that resulted in the removal or relocation of western Joshua trees.
         2.   The number and size class of western Joshua trees that were
relocated pursuant to Section
9.56.100.
         3.   The number and size class of western Joshua trees removed and not
relocated pursuant to Section
9.56.100.
         4.   The total amount of mitigation fees collected for each of the
mitigation categories set forth in Section
9.56.120.
         5.   Documentation that the total amount of mitigation fees listed
pursuant to Section
9.56.120 was paid into the Western Joshua Tree Mitigation Fund.
         6.   The number of dead western Joshua trees removed and live trees
trimmed pursuant to Section
9.56.130. (Ord. 291, 1-19-2021)
9.56.050: ANNUAL REPORT ON SURVIVAL OF WESTERN JOSHUA TREES:
   A.   The Town shall submit an annual report on the survival rates of trees
relocated by January 15 of each year beginning in 2022 and continuing for a
total of three years. The annual report shall include, at a minimum, the
following:
      1.   The total number of western Joshua trees relocated pursuant to
Section
9.56.100.
      2.   For each western Joshua tree relocated:
         a.   The street address for the parcel on which the western Joshua
tree was relocated. If no street address is available, the property owner may
include the assessor's parcel number.
         b.   The date of the relocation.
         c.   Whether the western Joshua tree is alive or dead as of the date
of the annual report.
         d.   A photograph of the relocated western Joshua tree in its current
condition. (Ord. 291, 1-19-2021)
9.56.060: PERMIT REQUIRED, PLANNING COMMISSION APPROVAL, AND TAKE PERMIT
AUTHORIZATIONS:
   A.   The Planning Commission may authorize the take of western Joshua tree
associated with developing single-family residences, accessory structures, and
public works projects concurrent with its approval of the project and subject
to the following conditions, applications, and processes:
      1.   No project shall be eligible to receive take authorization pursuant
to this section if it will result in the take of more than ten (10) western
Joshua trees from the project site.
      2.   Census
         a.   The project proponent proposing to relocate or remove a western
Joshua tree shall cause a census of western Joshua trees to be conducted on the
project site by a desert native plant specialist. The census shall tag and
count all western Joshua trees on the project site and classify them by size
class.
         b.   All applicants shall submit an application to the Department, on
forms prescribed by the Department which shall including the following
information. Additional information may be required by the Director or by the
Planning Commission:
            i.   The name of the desert native plant specialist who conducted
the census and the employer of the desert native plant specialist.
            ii.   The name of the desert native plant specialist who will
relocate western Joshua trees, if applicable, and the employer of the desert
native plant specialist.
            iii.   The date of the census
            iv.   The date or dates of the proposed relocation of western
Joshua trees, if applicable.
            v.   A map of the project site that depicts the location of the
proposed single-family residence, accessory structure, or public works project;
the number and location of all western Joshua trees on the project site; and if
applicable, the proposed western Joshua trees for removal, or the proposed
placement of each relocated western Joshua tree.
            vi.   Photographs of each western Joshua tree on the project site,
including a visual representation of the scale of the height of each tree.
            vii.   Aerial imagery of the site in sufficient detail to identify
the property and the western Joshua trees that are on the site and are a part
of the application submitted.
            viii.   Narrative written descriptions of each western Joshua tree,
its diameter, height, existing health condition and any other information
deemed necessary.
      3.   Additional Submittals
         a.   New construction of single-family residential units as well as
accessory structures shall require the submittal of all information on plans
measuring approximately twenty-four inches by thirty-six inches (24" x 36"),
shall be legibly drawn and shall accurately reflect aerial photography and
satellite imagery generally available for the subject property.
         b.   All property lines, dimensions, and existing structures, if any,
shall be depicted on plans submitted with the application materials.
         c.   Property owners name, mailing address, phone number, and email
address.
         d.   Applicant's name, mailing address, phone number and email
address.
         e.   Assessor parcel number(s), address, and general location of the
property for which the application is submitted.
         f.   General Plan designation and zoning designation of the subject
project site.
      4.   Approval Process
         a.   Authorizations for take may only be granted by the Planning
Commission in conjunction with approved building permit plans and applications
for public works projects, single family residence and accessory structures.
Western Joshua tree take approvals and authorizations shall not be granted by
the Planning Commission prior to the applicant receiving construction plan
approvals. This does not apply to trimming or removal of dead western Joshua
trees pursuant to this Chapter. (Ord. 291, 1-19-2021)
9.56.070: AVOIDANCE:
To the maximum extent practicable, the project proponent shall avoid take of
western Joshua trees on the project site. (Ord. 291, 1-19-2021)
9.56.080: MINIMIZATION:
The project proponent shall avoid all ground-disturbing activities within ten
feet (10') of any western Joshua tree, unless those activities will be
temporary, will not physically impact the western Joshua tree or its root
system, and will not disturb the soil to a depth of greater than twelve inches
(12"). (Ord. 291, 1-19-2021)
9.56.090: RELOCATION:
   A.   To the maximum extent feasible, the project proponent shall relocate
all western Joshua trees that cannot be avoided to another location on the
project site.
   B.   For purposes of this subsection, relocation of a western Joshua tree
shall be determined to be infeasible if any of the following applies:
      1.   Relocation of the western Joshua tree on the project site would pose
a threat to public health or safety.
      2.   Relocation of the western Joshua tree on the project site would
interfere with existing roadways, sidewalks, curbs, gutters, utility lines,
sewer lines, drainage improvements, foundations, structures, or setbacks to any
of those structures or improvements.
      3.   There is no location on the project site that satisfies the
requirements of this Chapter.
   C.   The project proponent shall ensure that relocation of western Joshua
trees satisfies the following requirements:
      1.   All relocations of western Joshua trees relocations one (1) meter or
greater in height shall be completed by a desert native plant specialist.
      2.   All western Joshua trees to be relocated shall be placed at least
twenty-five feet (2') from any existing or proposed structure or improvement
and at least ten feet (10') from any other western Joshua tree.
      3.   Within thirty (30) days of completing the relocation, the project
proponent shall provide the participating agency with a map of the project site
indicating where each western Joshua tree was relocated. (Ord. 291, 1-19-2021)
9.56.100: REMOVAL OF WESTERN JOSHUA TREES:
Subject to the limitations of this Chapter, a project proponent may remove
western Joshua trees that cannot feasibly be avoided or relocated pursuant to
this Chapter. (Ord. 291, 1-19-2021)
9.56.110: MITIGATION FEES:
   A.   Prior to applications being presented to the Planning Commission, the
project proponent shall pay mitigation fees for deposit into the Western Joshua
Tree Mitigation Fund as follows:
   B.   For single-family residence projects and sewer connection projects
undertaken on undeveloped parcels and public works projects to erect or
construct a new public structure, building, road, or improvement, the project
proponent shall pay mitigation fees as follows:
      1.   $2425 for each western Joshua tree four (4) meters or greater in
height that is relocated.
      2.   $625 for each western Joshua tree under four (4) meters in height
that is relocated.
      3.   $4175 for each western Joshua tree four (4) meters or greater in
height that is removed and not relocated.
      4.   $1050 for each western Joshua tree under four (4) meters in height
that is removed and not relocated.
   C.   For accessory structure projects undertaken on developed parcels and
for public works projects to alter, maintain, or repair an existing public
structure, building, road, or improvement, the project proponent shall pay
mitigation fees as follows:
      1.   $700 for each western Joshua tree four (4) meters or greater in
height that is relocated.
      2.   $175 for each western Joshua tree under four (4) meters in height
that is relocated.
      3.   $2100 for each western Joshua tree four (4) meters or greater in
height that is removed and not relocated.
      4.   $525 for each western Joshua tree under four (4) meters in height
that is removed and not relocated. (Ord. 291, 1-19-2021)
9.56.120: DEAD AND TRIMMING WESTERN JOSHUA TREES:
   A.   The Planning Commission may issue a permit to authorize either the
removal of a dead western Joshua tree or the trimming of a western Joshua tree.
The project proponent or its agent may remove a detached dead western Joshua
tree or detached limb of a western Joshua tree. All other removals and all
trimming of western Joshua trees authorized by permits issued pursuant to this
subsection shall be completed by a desert native plant specialist. Planning
Commission may issue a permit in accordance with this section without payment
of mitigation fees, provided that the dead western Joshua tree or the limb(s)
to be removed:
      1.   Has fallen over and is within thirty feet (30') of a structure; or
      2.   Is leaning against an existing structure; or
      3.   Creates an imminent threat to public health or safety. (Ord. 291, 1-
19-2021)
9.56.130: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   A violation of any provision of this Chapter shall constitute a
misdemeanor and shall be subject to enforcement pursuant to Title 1 or
Chapter 9.82 of the Town Code, or any other method permissible by law.
   B.   A violation of any provision of this Chapter may be punishable by an
administrative citation under
Chapter 1.04 of this Code in the amount of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per
western Joshua tree taken or trimmed without a permit. In addition to the
payment of an administrative citation, fine, or any other penalty imposed, any
person or entity that takes or trims a western Joshua tree without a permit and
in violation of this Chapter shall subsequently obtain a permit in accordance
with the provisions of this Chapter.
   C.   Any person or entity that takes or trims a western Joshua tree without
a permit and in violation of this Chapter, shall submit an application for the
requisite permit within thirty (30) days of service of the notice of the
violation pursuant to section
1.02.080 of the Town Code. Failure to submit an application for the requisite
permit within 30 days of service of notice of the violation, shall constitute a
separate violation of this Chapter for which a separate administrative
citation, fine, or other penalty may be imposed. Each thirty (30) day period
thereafter in which a person or entity fails to submit an application for the
requisite permit shall constitute a separate violation of this Chapter for
which a separate administrative citation, fine, or other penalty may be
imposed. (Ord. 291, 1-19-2021)
CHAPTER 9.60
PERMIT PROCEDURES; GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
9.60.010: Purpose
9.60.020: Types Of Procedures
9.60.030: Review Authority For Land Use And Zoning Decisions
9.60.040: Referral To Next Higher Review Authority
9.60.010: PURPOSE:
This chapter establishes the procedures to process land use entitlements and
development proposals in any land use zoning district. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.60.020: TYPES OF PROCEDURES:
   A.   This development code utilizes the following three (3) basic procedures
to review all types of applications:
      1.   Public Hearing:
         a.   Formal Open Forum For Public Review: Public hearing procedures
are distinguished by a formal open forum for public review of a proposal.
During the course of the public hearing, the applicable review authority
invites public testimony for and against the land use proposal, reviews
evidence and then renders its decision in compliance with
chapter 9.85, "Public Notices And Hearings", of this title. A public hearing
may be conducted before the council, the commission, or the director.
         b.   Review Evidence And State Relative Positions: Public hearing
procedures shall be used to give all interested parties an opportunity to
review the evidence and to state their relative positions in a common public
forum before the applicable review authority.
      2.   Staff Review With Notice:
         a.   Based Upon Specific Findings Or Conditions: Staff review with
notice procedures are distinguished by land use decisions that are based upon
specific findings or conditions that limit the discretion of the applicable
review authority.
         b.   Rendering Of A Decision With Notice: Staff review with notice
procedures shall provide written or published notice given to affected and
interested parties followed by a decision by the applicable review authority.
The notice shall be designed to ensure that all interested parties are aware of
the pending decision and are given a chance to comment before the review
authority renders its decision.
Such notice will be given at least fifteen (15) days prior to the scheduled
hearing date. If no response has been received by the town five (5) days prior
to the scheduled hearing date and the applicant has no objections to the
conditions of approval, the community development director may elect not to
hold a formal hearing.
      3.   Staff Review Without Notice:
         a.   Decisions Based Upon Adopted Standards: Staff review without
notice procedures are distinguished by land use decisions made by the
applicable review authority based upon standards that have been adopted by the
town as law or as policy.
         b.   Rendering Of A Decision Without Notice: Staff review without
notice procedures shall be used when sufficient standards have been adopted by
the commission or the council to allow the applicable review authority to
render a decision without giving notice to surrounding property owners and
other parties. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.60.030: REVIEW AUTHORITY FOR LAND USE AND ZONING DECISIONS:
   A.   Table 4.1: Table 4.1, "Review Authority", of this section identifies
the town official or authority responsible for reviewing and making initial
decisions on each type of application or land use entitlement required by this
development code, the nature of the initial decision (i.e., decision or
recommend), and the nature of the response of the subsequent review authority.
   B.   Concurrent Processing: Multiple applications for the same project shall
be processed concurrently, and shall be reviewed, and approved or disapproved
by the highest review authority designated by this development code for any of
the required applications (e.g., a project with applications for both a zoning
map amendment and a conditional use permit shall have both applications decided
by the council, instead of the commission acting on the conditional use permit
as otherwise provided by table 4.1, "Review Authority", of this section).
   TABLE 4.1(A)
   REVIEW AUTHORITY
Type Of Entitlement Applicable Code Director1,2 Planning    Town Council4
Or Decision         Section                     Commission3
Type Of Entitlement Applicable Code Director1,2 Planning    Town Council4
Or Decision         Section                     Commission3
Development code    Ch. 9.62        Recommend5  Recommend   Decision
amendments
Zone changes        Ch. 9.62        Recommend   Recommend   Decision
Conditional use
permits and         Ch. 9.63        Recommend   Decision    Appeal5
amendments
Development
agreements and      Ch. 9.64        Recommend   Recommend   Decision
amendments
General plan        Ch. 9.65        Recommend   Recommend   Decision
amendments
Home occupation     Ch. 9.50        Decision    Appeal      Appeal
permits - Class I
Home occupation     Ch. 9.50        Decision    Appeal      Appeal
permits - Class II
Home occupation     Ch. 9.50        Recommend   Decision    Appeal
permits - Class III
Home occupation     Ch. 9.50        Recommend   Decision    Appeal
permits - Class IV
Home occupation     Ch. 9.50        Decision    Appeal      Appeal
permits - Class V
Development code    Sec.            Decision    Appeal      Appeal
interpretations     9.02.010
Sidewalk vending    Ch. 9.55        Decision    Appeal      Appeal
Land use compliance Ch. 9.66        Recommend   Decision    Appeal
review
Minor revisions to  Varies          Decision    Appeal      Appeal
approved actions
Native plant
permits - non-      Ch. 9.77        Recommend   Decision    Appeal
exempt
Native plant        Ch. 9.77        Decision    Appeal      Appeal
permits - exempt
Planned development
permits and         Ch. 9.67        Recommend   Recommend   Decision
amendments
Reasonable          Ch. 9.74        Decision    Appeal      Appeal
accommodations
Sign permits -
existing building
signage, temporary  Ch. 9.76        Decision    Appeal      Appeal
signage, and
residential
subdivision signage
Sign permits - new
commercial,
industrial, and
institutional
developments, sign
programs, design    Ch. 9.76        Recommend   Decision    Appeal
merit review,
landmark sign
review, and public
and institutional
facility
directional signage
Sign permits - Off-
site signs on       Ch. 9.76        Recommend   Recommend   Decision
public property
Site plan and
design review and   Ch. 9.68        Recommend   Decision    Appeal
amendments
Special use permits
- bed and breakfast
lodging, animal
keeping, breeding/
raising of
densities greater
than those
specified in        Ch. 9.69        Decision    Appeal      Appeal
section 9.08.020,
exotic animals,
private kennels/
small animals,
recycling
facilities, large
family daycare
Specific plans and  Ch. 9.70        Recommend   Recommend   Decision
amendments
Temporary special
event permits -
church tent revival
meetings,
carnivals, circus,
concert, farmers    Ch. 9.71        Decision    Appeal      Appeal
market, festival/
fair, seasonal
holiday sales
facilities, or
similar types of
events
Temporary use       Ch. 9.72        Decision    Appeal      Appeal
permits
Variances           Ch. 9.73        Recommend   Decision    Appeal
Commercial vehicle  Sec.            Decision    Appeal      Appeal
parking permit      9.33.100
Landscape and       MWELO (CA)      Decision    Appeal      Appeal
irrigation review
Filming permit      Ord. 85         Decision    Appeal      Appeal
Temporary
residential special Ch. 9.38        Decision    Appeal      Appeal
event permit -
Class I & Class II
Temporary
residential special
event permit -      Ch. 9.38        Recommend   Decision    Appeal
Class III & Class
IV
Environmental       Sec.            Decision    Appeal      Appeal
assessment          9.61.040
 
Notes:
    1.    The director may defer action and refer any permit or approval
application to the commission for final determination.
    2.    All decisions of the director are appealable to commission, and then
to the council, in compliance with
 chapter 9.81, "Appeals", of this title.
    3.    The commission may refer consideration of an appeal to the council.
    4.    All decisions of the council are final.
    5.    "Recommend" means that the review authority makes a recommendation to
a higher review authority; "appeal" means that the review authority may
consider and decide upon appeals to the decision of an earlier review
authority, in compliance with
chapter 9.81, "Appeals", of this title.
   TABLE 4-1 (B)
   REVIEW AUTHORITY
         Applicable                     Parks,
Type Of  Development  Town     Director Recreation,  Planning   Town Council
Decision Code Section Engineer          and Cultural Commission
                                        Commission
            Applicable                      Parks,
Type Of     Development Town                Recreation, Planning
Decision    Code        Engineer  Director  and         Commission Town Council
            Section                         Cultural
                                            Commission
Dedication
of Land for
Park and    Ch. 9.51    -         -         Recommend   Recommend  Decision
Recreation
Purposes
Tentative
or vesting  9.91.040             Recommend -           Decision   Appeal
tract or
parcel map
Parcel map  9.92        Recommend Recommend -                     Decision
Final map   9.92        Recommend Recommend -                     Decision
Certificate
of          9.93.020    Recommend Decision  -           Appeal     Appeal
subdivision
compliance
Composite
development 9.92.070    Recommend Decision  -           Appeal     Appeal
plan
Official    9.93.070             Recommend -           Recommend  Decision
maps
Lot line    9.93.030    Recommend Decision  -           Appeal     Appeal
adjustment
Lot mergers 9.93.040    Recommend Decision  -           Appeal     Appeal
Reversion   9.93.050             Recommend -           Recommend  Decision
to acreage
 
(Ord. 243, 10-15-2013; Ord. 323, 11-19-2024)
9.60.040: REFERRAL TO NEXT HIGHER REVIEW AUTHORITY:
   A.   A review authority may refer any application to the next succeeding
review authority, based upon the following criteria:
      1.   Impact upon public services and facilities greater than typical for
the type of project proposed;
      2.   Impact upon surrounding properties greater than typical for the type
of project proposed;
      3.   Floor or site square footage greater than typically found in the
type of project;
      4.   Intensity of use greater than typically found in the type of
projects;
      5.   Operating characteristics not typical of the type of project
proposed;
      6.   Other factors including, but not limited to, public opposition to
development of the project;
      7.   The need for town interpretation of the general plan and/or
development code as related to the project. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
CHAPTER 9.61
APPLICATION PROCESSING PROCEDURES
SECTION:
9.61.010: Purpose
9.61.020: Applications For Land Use Decisions
9.61.030: Development Review Committee
9.61.040: Environmental Review
9.61.050: Multiple Permit Applications
9.61.060: Preapplication Review
9.61.070: Notice Of Pending Land Use Decisions
9.61.080: Conditions Of Approval
9.61.090: Postdecision Notice
9.61.010: PURPOSE:
This chapter establishes the application requirements and noticing provisions
necessary to process development proposals in any land use zoning district.
(Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.61.020: APPLICATIONS FOR LAND USE DECISIONS:
   A.   Complete Application Required: Any application for a permit or
entitlement pursuant to this code must be accepted as complete for processing
in order to initiate the official review process. All required materials,
information and fees as required by the director shall be provided by the
applicant before the application is deemed complete for processing.
   B.   Determination Of Completeness: The director shall determine in writing
the completeness of the application and transmit this determination to the
applicant within the time limits and in a form and content to be consistent
with the types of project applications established by applicable state law and
town regulations.
   C.   Time Period For Determining Completeness: The statutory time period of
thirty (30) days established by state law for determining completeness shall
begin the day the application is made and date stamped. Formal processing of
any application pursuant to this code shall commence upon the date the
application is accepted as complete, as provided in the state law regarding
review and approval of development projects.
   D.   Abandonment Of Application:
      1.   An application for permits or approvals issued in compliance with
this development code shall be deemed to have been abandoned when information
and/or fees have been requested to complete the application and this
information and/or fees have not been received by the planning division within
ninety (90) calendar days.
      2.   The director shall notify the applicant by mail of the abandonment.
The applicant may provide a written explanation of the delay, stating the date
by which the further application material and, when required, further fees will
be submitted. If the director finds that special circumstances exist and that
unusual hardship to the applicant would result from deeming the application
abandoned, the director may appropriately extend the period during which the
required material must be submitted. If the required material has not been
submitted by the new date, and if the director has not further extended the
allowable period for submitting it, the application shall be deemed abandoned
without further notification. A notice of abandonment shall thereafter be
mailed to the applicant and a copy placed in the applicant's file.
   E.   Additional Information: Notwithstanding any procedures established in
this section for determination of completeness, the director may request the
applicant to submit additional information in the course of processing the
application if such information could not be anticipated as part of the
original application. Such a request to clarify, amplify, correct or otherwise
supplement submitted information shall not invalidate the original
determination that the application was complete at the time the determination
was originally made. The director may request any additional information needed
to prepare adequate environmental documentation in compliance with the
California environmental quality act (CEQA) and applicable guidelines.
   F.   New Application Following Denial: Following the denial of an
application for any land use or policy application, no application for the same
or substantially the same use or project as determined by the director shall be
filed within one year from the effective date of the denial. This provision
shall not apply in the case of an application that is denied without prejudice
or where otherwise permitted to be filed by a vote of at least two- thirds (2/
3) of the approving authority. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.61.030: DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE:
   A.   Evaluation Of Proposals By The Development Review Committee (DRC):
Development review procedures include evaluation of proposals at a scheduled
meeting of the DRC.
   B.   Consideration Of Design And Proposed Conditions: The DRC meeting allows
informal discussions between the applicant, town staff, and others regarding
the design and proposed conditions for a given proposal. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.61.040: ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW:
   A.   Applications Subject To CEQA: All land use applications that are
subject to the California environmental quality act (CEQA) shall be reviewed by
the department in compliance with the town's environmental review guidelines.
   B.   Environmental Findings Required: Before taking an action to approve a
land use application that is subject to CEQA, the town shall make one or more
environmental findings. The environmental finding(s) is required in addition to
the findings specified in this development code for each application type.
(Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.61.050: MULTIPLE PERMIT APPLICATIONS:
When more than one land use decision is required for a single project, all
applications shall be filed concurrently. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.61.060: PREAPPLICATION REVIEW:
When the complexity of a land use application warrants, the director may
require that the applicant submit materials and attend necessary conferences or
hearings to conduct a preliminary review of a development proposal before the
acceptance of the application. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.61.070: NOTICE OF PENDING LAND USE DECISIONS:
   A.   Public Hearing Or Staff Review With Notice Procedures: Upon receipt of
a request for a land use decision that utilizes the public hearing or staff
review with notice procedures, the applicable review authority shall give
notice specifying the time and place for the decision at least ten (10)
calendar days before the date of the scheduled land use approval/denial by the
following applicable methods:
      1.   Notice shall be published once in a newspaper of general circulation
in the respective community of the proposal for the following land use
decisions using the public hearing procedure:
         a.   Amendments to the text of the general plan or a specific plan.
         b.   Development code amendments.
         c.   General plan map amendments.
         d.   Subdivisions, where a tentative and final map are required.
         e.   Conditional use permit and amendments.
         f.   Specific plan and amendments.
         g.   Planned development and amendments.
         h.   Variance.
      2.   Notice shall be given by first class mail to any person who has
filed a written request for a specific application.
      3.   Notice shall be given by first class mail or delivery to all
surrounding property owners within three hundred feet (300') of the exterior
boundaries of the subject site for land use decisions using the public hearing
or staff review with notice procedures. Director shall have the discretion to
extend the notification radius depending upon project characteristics.
      4.   Notice shall also be given, as required by Government Code section
66451.3, in the case of a conversion of residential real property to a
community apartment project, condominium project, or stock cooperative.
      5.   Notice may be given in any other manner as is deemed necessary or
desirable by the director.
   B.   One-Eighth Page Optional Notice: A one-eighth (1/8) page legal display
advertisement in a newspaper of general circulation may be substituted for
individual property owner notice whenever the individual notice would require
notification of more than one thousand (1,000) property owners.
   C.   Ownership And Addresses Of Properties: Ownership and addresses of
contiguous and surrounding properties shall be determined from the latest
equalized tax assessment roll or from other records of the county assessor or
county tax collector, whichever contains more recent information.
   D.   Continued Hearings: During the public hearing, items that are continued
by the review authority to a specific date shall not be renoticed unless
specifically requested by the review authority. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.61.080: CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL:
In approving an application for a land use decision, the review authority may
establish reasonable conditions to its approval that are found to be necessary
to protect the public health, safety, and general welfare that are consistent
with the general plan and this development code. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.61.090: POSTDECISION NOTICE:
   A.   Provision Of Notice: Within ten (10) calendar days of a final decision
on an application for a permit or other approval required by this development
code, the town shall provide notice of its final action to the applicant and to
any person(s) who specifically requested notice of the town's final action and
has provided a self-addressed stamped envelope.
   B.   Contents Of Notice: The notice shall contain the final decision by the
review authority. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
CHAPTER 9.62
AMENDMENTS TO DEVELOPMENT CODE AND ZONE CHANGES
SECTION:
9.62.010: Purpose
9.62.020: Initiation
9.62.030: Public Hearing And Notice
9.62.040: Commission Action
9.62.050: Council Action
9.62.060: Required Findings
9.62.010: PURPOSE:
The provisions of this development code, including the official zoning map, may
be amended to reflect changing development needs of the town over time, to
maintain consistency with the general plan, and as determined by the council to
be in the best interest of the town for the public health, safety and welfare
of the community. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.62.020: INITIATION:
   A.   Procedure: A development code amendment may be initiated by an
amendment application by one or more property owners affected by the proposed
amendment or by the council.
      1.   If the council initiates a change or addition to the development
code, it may direct staff to process the amendment.
      2.   If the commission wishes to initiate an amendment, it shall be
referred to the council for concurrence to initiate an amendment. The council
may then direct staff to process the amendment.
      3.   If the director wishes to initiate an amendment, it shall be
referred to the commission for review and referral to council.
   B.   Fees: Application for an amendment to the provisions of this
development code made by one or more property owners affected by the proposed
amendment shall be accompanied by a fee established by resolution of the
council and shall include submittal requirements as prescribed by the director.
(Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.62.030: PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE:
Upon receipt in proper form of a development code amendment application, or
upon receiving direction from the council, and following a department review
and recommendation, public hearings shall be set as hereinafter provided before
the commission and council. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.62.040: COMMISSION ACTION:
   A.   Public Hearing Required: The commission shall hold a public hearing
after giving notice as required by
chapter 9.85, "Public Notices And Hearings", of this title.
   B.   Commission Recommendation: The commission shall make a written
recommendation whether to approve, approve in modified form, or deny the
proposed amendment. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.62.050: COUNCIL ACTION:
   A.   Council Options: Upon receipt of the commission's recommendation, the
council may approve, approve with modifications, or disapprove the proposed
amendment based upon the findings contained in section
9.62.060, "Required Findings", of this chapter.
   B.   Amendment To Be Made By Ordinance: Amendments to this development code
shall be made by ordinance.
   C.   Public Hearing By Council: Upon receipt of a commission recommendation,
the council shall hold a public hearing and notices shall be mailed as set
forth in
chapter 9.85, "Public Notices And Hearings", of this title. Notices shall also
be given to the applicant, the commission and, if applicable, the appellant.
The director shall submit a report and meeting minutes of the commission's
recommendation to the council setting forth the reasons for action taken by the
commission.
   D.   Council Modifications To Proposed Amendment: Any significant
modification of an amendment to the zoning provisions of this code made by the
council (i.e., changes involving density, intensity, or standards), which
(modification) was not previously considered by the commission during its
hearing, shall be referred to the commission for report and recommendation. The
commission is not required to hold a hearing on such modification, and their
failure to respond to a council referral within forty five (45) days shall
constitute their (the commission's) recommendation for approval. (Ord. 243, 10-
15-2013)
9.62.060: REQUIRED FINDINGS:
An amendment to this development code may be adopted only if the following
findings are made:
   A.   The proposed amendment is consistent with the general plan; and
   B.   The proposed amendment will not be detrimental to the public health,
safety or welfare of the town or its residents. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
CHAPTER 9.63
CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT
SECTION:
9.63.010: Purpose And General Plan Consistency
9.63.020: Applicability
9.63.030: Authority
9.63.040: Application Submittal Requirements
9.63.050: Application Fee
9.63.060: Investigation And Report
9.63.070: Action By Review Authority
9.63.080: Required Findings
9.63.090: Minor Modifications Of Previously Approved Conditional Use Permit
9.63.100: Lapse Of Permits/Permit Expiration
9.63.110: Extension Of Time
9.63.120: CUP Amendment
9.63.130: CUP Revocation
9.63.140: Development Of Property Before Final Decision
9.63.150: Alteration To Nonconforming Use
9.63.160: Surface Mining And Reclamation
9.63.010: PURPOSE AND GENERAL PLAN CONSISTENCY:
The conditional use permit review procedure allows the town to evaluate
proposed development and determine its consistency with the general plan, the
development code and applicable town ordinances. The conditional use permit
review procedure is intended to protect and enhance the visual appeal,
environment, economic stability and property values of the town's residential,
commercial, and industrial areas through the application of the provisions of
this code and the general plan. Review of such uses is necessary and specific
conditions of approval may be necessary to ensure that the uses are developed,
operated, and located properly with respect to their effects on surrounding
properties and so that any and all potentially adverse impacts are mitigated,
and to ensure the general health, safety and welfare of the community through
implementation of the general plan through this chapter. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.63.020: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   All new construction which is listed in the use classification charts
for the underlying land use districts that require a Conditional Use Permit
Review.
   B.   Expansions which exceed the thresholds of Table 4.2 and are permitted
subject to a Conditional Use Permit Review as specified in the use
classification charts for the underlying land use district shall require a
Conditional Use Permit.
TABLE 4.2
CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT EXPANSION THRESHOLDS
 
Square Footage Of Existing Building Maximum Square Footage Maximum Percentage
up to 5,000                         1250 sq ft             50%
5,001 - 10,000                      2000 sq ft             50%
10,001 +                            2500 sq ft             50%
 
   C.   Change in use of an existing structure
   D.   Projects which fall within the thresholds of the Conditional Use Permit
shall comply with the General Plan, the Development Code and applicable Town
Ordinances and regulations, including but not limited to:
      1.   Half (1/2) width street improvements (curb, gutter, sidewalk,
streetlights, median islands and pavement) on all streets fronting the project,
pursuant to the Yucca Valley General Plan Circulation Element. For projects
that are a change in use of an existing structure, half-width street
improvements are only required when total vehicle trips are estimated to
increase a minimum of 200 vehicle trips per day compared to the trip generation
from prior site use.
      2.   Onsite water retention of incremental increase.
      3.   Dedication of easements for drainage facilities, streets, trails,
avigation easements as required by this code and any adopted plans.
      4.   Improvements to drainage facilities except as defined by the
parameters of the Council policies regarding drainage facilities.
      5.   Assessment Districts formation (including Landscape and Lighting,
Street and Drainage, Community Facility District, and Public Safety).
      6.   Utility Undergrounding, pursuant to adopted standards.
      7.   Landscaping and Landscaping Plan regulations (greater than 500
square feet of landscape area requires approval by Hi Desert Water District).
      8.   Commercial Design Guidelines.
      9.   Outdoor Lighting regulations.
      10.   Parking and screening requirements.
      11.   Sign regulations.
      12.   All other Development Code regulations.
      13.   California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) and any required
mitigation measures.
   E.   Expansions which fall within the thresholds specified in Table 4.2
shall be processed as a Land Use Compliance Review, pursuant to
Chapter 9.66 . (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013; Ord. 311, 2-20-2024)
9.63.030: AUTHORITY:
   A.   Level Of Review:
      TABLE 4.3
      CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT
      LEVEL OF REVIEW
 
Applicability                              Level Of Review Notice Requirements
New structures, including accessory        Commission      Public hearing
structures and uses
Expansion of an existing structure in
conformance with section                   Director        None
9.63.020, table 4.2 of this chapter
Expansion of an existing structure which
exceeds the thresholds in 9.63.020, table  Commission      Public hearing
4.2 of this chapter
Conversion of an existing structure (i.e., Commission      Public hearing
change in use)
Construction or conversion of a structure  Commission      Public hearing
(s) to allow a mixed use development
 
Where the review for a conditional use permit is not specified, the director
shall determine the appropriate review authority.
   B.   Referral To Next Higher Review Authority: The commission may refer an
application for a conditional use permit to the council based upon the
following criteria:
      1.   Impact upon public services and facilities greater than typical for
the type of project proposed;
      2.   Impact upon surrounding properties greater than typical for the type
of project proposed;
      3.   Floor or site square footage greater than typically found in the
type of project;
      4.   Intensity of use greater than typically found in the type of
projects;
      5.   Operating characteristics not typical of the type of project
proposed;
      6.   Other factors including, but not limited to, public opposition to
development of the project;
      7.   The need for council interpretation of the general plan and/or
development code as related to the project.
   C.   General Authority: The commission is authorized to approve, approve
with conditions, or deny applications for conditional use permits in compliance
with the procedures established in this section. In approving an application
for a conditional use permit, the commission may impose conditions to ensure
compliance with this code. Conditions may include, but shall not be limited to:
      1.   Requirements for special structure setbacks;
      2.   Open spaces;
      3.   Buffers;
      4.   Fences;
      5.   Walls and screening;
      6.   Requirements for the installation and maintenance of landscaping and
erosion control measures;
      7.   Control of street improvements, other public infrastructure and
related dedications;
      8.   Control of vehicular ingress and egress;
      9.   Control of traffic circulation;
      10.   Control of signs;
      11.   Control of hours of operation;
      12.   Control of potential nuisances;
      13.   Establishing standards for maintenance of buildings and grounds;
      14.   Establishing development schedules and development standards;
      15.   Control of periodic review;
      16.   Control of architectural and/or building design;
      17.   Any other conditions as may be deemed necessary to ensure the
compatibility with surrounding uses, to preserve the public health, safety and
welfare, and to enable the commission to make the findings required by section
9.63.080, "Required Findings", of this chapter.
   D.   Performance Guarantee: In order to ensure implementation of conditions
attached to a conditional use permit, the applicant may be required to furnish
a surety in a form of an instrument of credit, money or surety bond in the
amount fixed by the authority granting or modifying the conditional use permit.
   E.   Providing Required Improvements: Whenever a conditional use permit is
approved or modified subject to the condition that specified public
improvements shall be installed by the applicant to meet town standards and be
accepted by the town, the applicant may be required to execute an agreement
approved by the town to make such improvements prior to the time/construction
events specified in the conditional use permit.
   F.   Conditions Declared Void: Whenever any final judgment of a court of
competent jurisdiction declares one or more of the conditions of a conditional
use permit to be unconstitutional or invalid, such decision shall not affect
the validity of the approval as a whole, or any portion thereof other than the
section so declared.
   G.   Violation Of Condition: Whenever a conditional use permit is approved
or modified by the commission subject to a condition(s), noncompliance with
such condition(s) shall constitute a violation of this code. Conditions which
are not observed or which are violated may be enforced as provided in
chapter 9.82, "Enforcement And Violations", of this title, or said conditional
use permit may be revoked or modified under chapters 9.83, "Permit Amendments",
and 9.84, "Permit Revocations", of this title. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.63.040: APPLICATION SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS:
Applications for conditional use permits shall be filed on a form prescribed by
the planning division and shall contain such information and reports as may be
required by the application submittal package or by other applicable ordinances
or by the town in order for the commission to make the required findings. (Ord.
243, 10-15-2013)
9.63.050: APPLICATION FEE:
The application shall be accompanied by a fee established by resolution of the
council to cover the cost of handling and processing the application as
prescribed in this chapter. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.63.060: INVESTIGATION AND REPORT:
The director shall cause an analysis of each application for a conditional use
permit to be made. The level of detail of the analysis shall be appropriate to
the type of project proposed and the needs of the commission. The analysis
shall examine the application's consistency with the content, intent and
purpose of the general plan, the development code, and any other applicable
town standards or policies. To ensure effective implementation of general plan
policies and the provisions of this code, applications may be reviewed by the
development review committee prior to consideration by the commission. As a
result of the analysis, the director shall cause a report to be completed which
shall include a listing of proposed conditions necessary to guarantee the
public health, safety and welfare, should the proposed project be approved.
(Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.63.070: ACTION BY REVIEW AUTHORITY:
   A.   Commission Action: Pursuant to section
9.63.030, "Authority", of this chapter, the commission shall review each
application for a conditional use permit. The applicant shall be provided with
a copy of the director's report regarding the application prior to the
commission's consideration. The commission shall approve, deny, or
conditionally approve applications for a conditional use permit. Decisions by
the commission shall be final unless appealed as provided in
chapter 9.81, "Appeals", of this title. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.63.080: REQUIRED FINDINGS:
Before approving a conditional use permit, the town and/or commission shall
find that the circumstances established below apply:
   A.   That the location, size, design, density and intensity of the proposed
development is consistent with the general plan, the purpose of the land use
district in which the site is located, and the development policies and
standards of the town;
   B.   That the location, size, design and architectural design features of
the proposed structures and improvements are compatible with the site's natural
landform, surrounding sites, structures and streetscapes;
   C.   That the proposed development produces compatible transitions in the
scale, bulk, coverage, density and character of the development between
adjacent land uses;
   D.   That the building site and architectural design is accomplished in an
energy efficient manner;
   E.   That the materials, textures and details of the proposed construction,
to the extent feasible, are compatible and consistent with the adjacent and
neighboring structures;
   F.   That the development proposal does not unnecessarily block views from
other buildings or from public ways, or visually dominate its surroundings with
respect to mass and scale to an extent unnecessary and inappropriate to the
use;
   G.   That the amount, location, and design of open space and landscaping
conforms to the requirements of this development code, enhances the visual
appeal and is compatible with the design and functions of the structure(s),
site and surrounding area;
   H.   That quality in architectural design is maintained in order to enhance
the visual desert environment of the town and to protect the economic value of
existing structures;
   I.   That there are existing public facilities, services, and utilities
available at the appropriate levels and/or that new or expanded facilities,
services and utilities shall be required to be installed at the appropriate
time to serve the project as they are needed;
   J.   That access to the site and circulation on and off site is required to
be safe and convenient for pedestrians, bicyclists, equestrians and motorists;
   K.   That traffic generated from the proposed project has been sufficiently
addressed and mitigated and will not adversely impact the capacity and physical
character of surrounding streets;
   L.   That traffic improvements and/or mitigation measures have been applied
or required in a manner adequate to maintain a level of service C or better on
arterial roads, where applicable, and are consistent with the circulation
element of the town general plan;
   M.   That there will not be significant harmful effects upon environmental
quality and natural resources including endangered, threatened, rare species,
their habitat, including, but not limited to, plants, fish, insects, animals,
birds or reptiles;
   N.   That there are no other relevant or anticipated negative impacts of the
proposed use that cannot be mitigated and reduced to a level of nonsignificance
in conformance with CEQA, the California environmental quality act;
   O.   That the impacts which could result from the proposed development, and
the proposed location, size, design and operating characteristics of the
proposed development, and the conditions under which it would be operated or
maintained will not be considered to be detrimental to the public health,
safety and welfare of the community or be materially injurious to properties
and/or improvements within the immediate vicinity or be contrary to the general
plan; and
   P.   That the proposed development will comply with each of the applicable
provisions of the development code and applicable town policies, except
approved variances. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.63.090: MINOR MODIFICATIONS OF PREVIOUSLY APPROVED CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT:
An approved conditional use permit may be modified upon the request of the
property owner, or by the town. Minor modifications may be approved by the
director if it is determined that the changes would not affect the findings
prescribed in section
9.63.080, "Required Findings", of this chapter, and that the subject of the
proposed changes were not items of public controversy during the review and
approval of the original permit; including modifications to phasing schedules
for the project. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.63.100: LAPSE OF PERMITS/PERMIT EXPIRATION:
   A.   Expiration: A conditional use permit approval shall expire three (3)
years from the date the permit is approved unless it is otherwise conditioned
or unless prior to the expiration of the three (3) years the following have
occurred:
      1.   A building permit is issued and substantial construction is
diligently pursued toward completion of the project which was the subject of
the conditional use permit application. After construction is commenced, if
work is discontinued for a period of two (2) years, the conditional use permit
shall require review and reauthorization by the commission; or
      2.   A certificate of occupancy is issued for the structure which was the
subject of the conditional use permit application.
   B.   Phased Projects: Projects may be built in phases if so approved by the
commission or director pursuant to section
9.63.090, "Minor Modifications Of Previously Approved Conditional Use Permit",
of this chapter. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.63.110: EXTENSION OF TIME:
The commission may grant a time extension not to exceed three (3) years.
Applications shall be made on a form to be provided by the planning division.
Prior to the granting of an extension, the planning division shall review the
previously approved project to ensure it is consistent with all current
provisions of the general plan, development code and other town ordinances and
that the findings for approval of a conditional use permit in compliance with
section
9.63.080, "Required Findings", of this chapter, can be made. Based upon this
review, additional conditions of approval may be imposed upon the project by
the review authority when the extension of time is approved.
The commission may grant additional extensions of time provided that the
project is consistent with the general plan, development code, master plans and
specific plans. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.63.120: CUP AMENDMENT:
Refer to
 chapter 9.83, "Permit Amendments", of this title. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.63.130: CUP REVOCATION:
Refer to
 chapter 9.84, "Permit Revocations", of this title. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.63.140: DEVELOPMENT OF PROPERTY BEFORE FINAL DECISION:
A building permit shall not be issued for, and no person shall commence to use,
any structure until that structure and its accompanying development has
received a conditional use permit in compliance with the provisions of this
chapter. In addition, no other permits shall be issued for any use or structure
requiring a conditional use permit unless and until the conditional use permit
has been approved. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.63.150: ALTERATION TO NONCONFORMING USE:
   A.   Procedure And Authority:
      1.   Procedure: Administrative review.
      2.   Reviewing authority: Director.
      3.   The director shall review and act upon requests to alter
nonconforming uses.
   B.   Existing Nonconforming Use: An existing nonconforming use may be
altered to accommodate a new structure or accessory use, except where it is an
existing nonconforming use of land with no structure thereon.
   C.   Findings: Before any modification in a nonconforming use may be
granted, it shall be found that all of the following conditions shall exist in
reference to the alteration being considered:
      1.   The remaining normal life of the existing nonconforming use shall be
determined pursuant to provisions specified in this code prior to consideration
of the proposed alteration if in a residential district.
      2.   The proposed alteration shall not prolong the normal life of the
existing nonconforming use.
      3.   The alteration of the existing nonconforming use shall not be
detrimental to nor prevent the attainment of objectives, policies, general land
use and programs specified in the town general plan.
      4.   The granting of permission to alter the nonconforming use shall not
be substantially detrimental to the public health, safety or welfare, or
injurious to the property or improvements in the vicinity and district in which
the use is located.
      5.   The alteration shall not change the primary use of the land nor
increase the intensity of that use.
      6.   The existing nonconforming use shall comply with all other existing
regulations.
      7.   Any alteration required by governmental or court action shall be
exempt from these conditions. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.63.160: SURFACE MINING AND RECLAMATION:
State law requires a public hearing review for the surface mining and
reclamation process. The mining and land reclamation plan application combine a
conditional use permit and reclamation plan into one application. (Ord. 243,
10-15-2013)
CHAPTER 9.64
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS
SECTION:
9.64.010: Purpose, Authority And Findings
9.64.020: Qualifications Of Applicant
9.64.030: Application Submittal Requirements
9.64.040: Application Fee
9.64.050: Investigation And Report
9.64.060: Action By Review Authorities
9.64.070: Amendment Or Cancellation Of Development Agreements
9.64.080: Recordation
9.64.090: Periodic Review
9.64.100: Modification, Termination Or Suspension
9.64.010: PURPOSE, AUTHORITY AND FINDINGS:
This chapter establishes procedures and requirements for consideration of
development agreements. The purpose of this chapter is to recognize that major,
multiphased development projects may require the developer to commit a
substantial investment in "up front" costs and that some assurances that
changing regulations will not adversely affect the entitlements of the project
may be necessary to justify the "up front" costs. The purpose of this chapter
is also to recognize that the town has an interest in assuring that large
scale, long term projects are implemented as approved. Development agreements
may provide the mechanism to provide needed stability for such projects. These
provisions are adopted under the authority of title 7, division 1, chapter 4,
article 2.5 of the California Government Code (commencing at section 65864).
The findings and purposes are as set forth in California Government Code
section 65865.
   A.   Assurances To The Applicant: A development agreement is intended to
provide assurance to the applicant that an approved project may proceed subject
to the policies, regulations, rules, and conditions of approval applicable to
the project at the time of approval, regardless of any changes to town
policies, regulations, and rules after project approval.
   B.   Assurances To The Town: In return, the town is provided assurance that
the project would further important town goals and policies which have been
officially recognized by the council, and provide the town with significant,
tangible benefits beyond those that may be required by the town through normal
project conditions of approval. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.64.020: QUALIFICATIONS OF APPLICANT:
Only a qualified applicant may file an application to enter into a development
agreement, as determined at the sole discretion of the town. A qualified
applicant is a person who has legal or equitable interest in the real property
which is the subject of the development agreement. An applicant shall submit
written proof of interest in the real property or of the authority of any agent
to act for the applicant. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.64.030: APPLICATION SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS:
Applications for development agreements shall be filed on a form prescribed by
the planning division and shall contain such information and reports as may be
required by the town in order to render a decision consistent with the purpose
and findings required by this chapter. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.64.040: APPLICATION FEE:
The application shall be accompanied by a fee established by resolution of the
council to cover the cost of handling and processing the application as
prescribed in this chapter. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.64.050: INVESTIGATION AND REPORT:
The director shall cause an analysis of each application for a development
agreement to be made. The level of detail of the analysis shall be appropriate
to the type of project proposed and the needs of the commission and council.
The analysis shall examine the application's consistency with the content,
intent and purpose of the general plan, this development code, and any other
applicable standards or policies. To ensure effective implementation of general
plan policies and the provisions of this code, applications may be reviewed by
the development review committee prior to consideration by the commission. As a
result of the analysis, the director shall cause a report to be completed
including findings regarding the public health, safety and welfare. (Ord. 243,
10-15-2013)
9.64.060: ACTION BY REVIEW AUTHORITIES:
   A.   Notice Of Hearing: A public hearing for an application for a
development agreement shall be held by the commission and the council. The
notice of intention to consider a development agreement by the commission and
council is governed by California Government Code sections 65090 and 65091 and
shall be consistent with
 chapter 9.85, "Public Notices And Hearings", of this title.
   B.   Recommendation By Commission: The commission shall make its
recommendation in writing to the council. The recommendation shall include the
commission's determination of whether the development agreement proposed is:
      1.   Consistent with the objectives, policies, land uses and programs
specified in the general plan and any applicable specific plan;
      2.   Compatible with the uses authorized in, and the regulations
prescribed for, the land use district in which the real property is located;
and
      3.   Beneficial to the public health, safety, and welfare.
   C.   Decision Of The Council:
      1.   The council may approve, modify, or deny the recommendation of the
commission. It may, but need not, refer matters not previously considered by
the commission back to the commission for report and recommendation. The
commission may, but need not, hold a public hearing on matters referred back to
it by the council. Failure of the commission to respond to a council referral
within forty five (45) days shall constitute their (the commission's)
recommendation for approval.
      2.   The council may not approve the development agreement unless it
finds that the provisions of the agreement are: a) consistent with the general
plan or any applicable specific plan; b) compatible with the uses authorized
in, and the regulations prescribed for the land use district in which the real
property is located; and c) in conformity with good land use planning; and d)
not detrimental to the health, safety and welfare.
      3.   Consideration for and action upon development agreements shall be
consistent with and in accordance with applicable state law.
   D.   Approval Of Development Agreements: If the council approves a
development agreement, it shall do so by the adoption of an ordinance. Such
approval is a legislative act and such ordinance is subject to referendum.
(Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.64.070: AMENDMENT OR CANCELLATION OF DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS:
   A.   Either party (or successors in interest thereof) may initiate an
amendment to, or cancellation in whole or in part of, a previously executed
development agreement.
   B.   The procedure for initiating and adopting an amendment to, or a
cancellation in whole or in part of, the development agreement is the same as
the procedure for entering into the original agreement.
   C.   A development agreement, after notice and public hearing, may be
amended or canceled in whole or in part by mutual consent of the parties to the
development agreement or their successors in interest.
   D.   Amendment of a development agreement is a legislative act and must be
approved by ordinance, which ordinance is subject to referendum. (Ord. 243, 10-
15-2013)
9.64.080: RECORDATION:
   A.   The applicant shall present to the director the written consent to the
development agreement of all parties having record ownership interest in the
real property which is the subject of the development agreement, prior to the
approval of the agreement by the council.
   B.   No later than ten (10) days after the council approves the development
agreement, the town clerk shall record with the county recorder a copy of the
development agreement which shall describe the land subject thereto.
   C.   If the parties to the agreement (or their successors in interest) amend
or cancel the agreement as provided in California Government Code section
65868, or if the council terminates, or modifies the agreement as provided in
Government Code section 65865.1, the town clerk shall record the appropriate
document with the county recorder in the manner prescribed by state law. (Ord.
243, 10-15-2013)
9.64.090: PERIODIC REVIEW:
   A.   The town shall review the development agreement every twelve (12)
months from the date the agreement is entered into through a public hearing by
the commission and council.
   B.   The director shall initiate the review proceeding by giving notice as
provided by
 chapter 9.85, "Public Notices And Hearings", of this title, that the town
intends to undertake a periodic review of the development agreement and shall
prepare a staff report and recommendation.
   C.   The director shall determine whether the property owner has
demonstrated good faith compliance with the terms and conditions of the
development agreement.
   D.   If the director finds and determines on the basis of substantial
evidence that the property owner has complied in good faith with all terms and
conditions of the agreement during the period of review, the review for that
period is concluded.
   E.   If the director finds and determines on the basis of substantial
evidence that the property owner has not complied in good faith with any one or
more of the terms or conditions of the development agreement during the period
under review:
      1.   The town may initiate proceedings to modify or terminate the
agreement or undertake other enforcement action as deemed appropriate;
   F.   Such periodic review will end when all the terms and conditions have
been completed as found and determined necessary by the commission and council
after public hearings. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.64.100: MODIFICATION, TERMINATION OR SUSPENSION:
   A.   A development agreement or portions thereof may be modified or
terminated upon a finding of noncompliance under this section. In the event
that state or federal laws enacted after a development agreement has been
entered into, prevent or preclude compliance with one or more provisions of the
development agreement, such provisions of the agreements shall be modified or
suspended as deemed necessary by the council, on a recommendation by the
commission, to enforce compliance by the property owner with such subsequently
enacted state or federal laws or regulations. If such proceedings are
initiated, notice shall be given as prescribed by this code and applicable
state law.
   B.   At the time and place set for the public hearing on modification,
suspension or termination of the development agreement, the property owner and
the public shall be given an opportunity to be heard. The finding of
noncompliance under subsection
9.64.060C, "Decision Of The Council", of this chapter, shall be deemed final
and not subject to reconsideration at this hearing. The issue at this hearing
shall be whether termination, suspension or modification is warranted, and if
so, in what respects. The council may impose those conditions to the action it
takes as it deems to be in the best interest of the town. (Ord. 243, 10-15-
2013)
CHAPTER 9.65
GENERAL PLAN AMENDMENTS
SECTION:
9.65.010: Purpose
9.65.020: Initiation
9.65.030: Notification Procedures
9.65.040: Commission Action
9.65.050: Council Action
9.65.060: Required Findings
9.65.070: Amendment Frequency
9.65.080: Consistency Zoning
9.65.010: PURPOSE:
The text, diagrams, or maps of the general plan may be amended to reflect
changing physical and development needs of the town over time, as determined by
the council to be in the best interest of the town for the health, safety and
welfare of the community. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.65.020: INITIATION:
   A.   Procedure: A general plan amendment may be initiated by filing an
amendment application by one or more property owners affected by the proposed
amendment or the council.
      1.   If the council initiates a change or addition to the general plan,
it may direct staff to process the amendment.
      2.   If the commission wishes to initiate an amendment, it shall be
referred to the council for concurrence to initiate the amendment. The council
may then direct staff to process the amendment.
      3.   If the director wishes to initiate an amendment, it shall be
referred to the commission for review and referral to council.
   B.   Fees: Application for a general plan amendment made by one or more
property owners affected by the proposed amendment shall be accompanied by a
fee established by resolution of the council and shall include submittal
requirements as prescribed by the director. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.65.030: NOTIFICATION PROCEDURES:
   A.   Public Hearing Notice: Upon receipt in proper form of a general plan
amendment application, or upon receiving direction from the council, and
following a department review and recommendation, public hearings shall be set
as hereinafter provided before the commission and council.
   B.   Other Agency Notice: Pursuant to Government Code section 65352, at
least forty five (45) days prior to council action on a proposed amendment, the
planning division shall notify the planning agency of every city which abuts
the town, the county, the local agency formation commission (LAFCO), and area
wide planning agency or federal agency whose operations may be significantly
affected by the proposed action, each governmental body, commission, or
council/board, including those of any school, public water system, or special
districts, whose jurisdiction lies wholly or partially within the town whose
functions include recommending, preparing plans for, or constructing major
public works projects, and any California Native American tribe that is on the
contact list maintained by the Native American heritage commission with
traditional lands located within the town. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.65.040: COMMISSION ACTION:
   A.   Public Hearing Required: The commission shall hold a public hearing
after giving notice as required by
chapter 9.85, "Public Notices And Hearings", of this title.
   B.   Commission Recommendation: The commission shall make a written
recommendation whether to approve, approve in modified form, or deny the
proposed amendment. A recommendation for approval shall be made by an
affirmative vote of not less than a majority of the total membership of the
commission. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.65.050: COUNCIL ACTION:
   A.   Council Options: Upon receipt of the commission's recommendation, the
council may approve, approve with modifications, or disapprove the proposed
amendment based upon the findings contained in section
9.65.060, "Required Findings", of this chapter.
   B.   Amendment To Be Made By Resolution: Amendments to general plan shall be
made by resolution. A general plan amendment shall be effective upon passage of
the council's resolution.
   C.   Public Hearing By Council: Upon receipt of a commission recommendation,
the council shall hold a public hearing and notices shall be mailed as set
forth in
 chapter 9.85, "Public Notices And Hearings", of this title. Notice shall also
be given to the applicant, any property owners affected by the proposed
amendment and, if applicable, the appellant. The planning division shall submit
a report and meeting minutes of the commission's recommendation to the council
setting forth the reasons for action taken by the commission.
   D.   Council Modifications To Proposed Amendment: Any significant
modification of an amendment which (modification) was not previously considered
by the commission during its hearing shall be referred to the commission for
report and recommendation. The commission is not required to hold a hearing on
such modification, and their failure to respond to council referral within
forty five (45) days shall constitute their (the commission's) recommendation
for approval. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.65.060: REQUIRED FINDINGS:
The council shall make the following findings in adopting an amendment to the
general plan:
   A.   The proposed general plan amendment is consistent with the goals,
policies and standards of all the elements of the general plan and will further
those goals, policies and standards;
   B.   The general plan as amended will comprise an integrated, internally
consistent and compatible statement of policies for the town; and
   C.   The general plan amendment furthers the public interest and promotes
the general welfare of the town by providing for logical pattern of land uses
and clarifying various land use policies for the town. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.65.070: AMENDMENT FREQUENCY:
Each mandatory element of the general plan shall not be amended more than four
(4) times in a calendar year. Each of the four (4) allowed amendments may
encompass a variety of different changes to the element, however they must be
processed and reviewed concurrently. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.65.080: CONSISTENCY ZONING:
When a general plan amendment affects the land use designation of specific
properties, those properties are required to be concurrently rezoned to a
zoning district(s) as necessary to maintain consistency with the general plan.
(Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
CHAPTER 9.66
LAND USE COMPLIANCE REVIEW
SECTION:
9.66.010: Applicability
9.66.020: Minor Modification Of Previously Approved Land Use Compliance Review
9.66.030: Lapse Of Permits/Permit Expiration
9.66.040: Extension Of Time
9.66.050: Amendment
9.66.060: Revocation
9.66.070: Fees
9.66.010: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   A land use compliance review is required for (1) requests to increase
in the total number of occupants, vehicles, and guests permitted in the short-
term vacation rental unit in accordance with Section
5.40.060; and (2) proposed expansions of existing developed properties pursuant
to table 4.4 of this section:
   TABLE 4.4
   LAND USE COMPLIANCE EXPANSION THRESHOLDS
 
Square Footage Of Existing Building Maximum Square Footage Maximum Percentage
Up to 5,000                         1,250 sq. ft.          50%
5,001 - 10,000                      2,000 sq. ft.          40%
10,001+                             2,500 sq. ft.          25%
 
Proposed total expansions through land use compliance review applications shall
not exceed the maximum square footage threshold or exceed the maximum
percentage threshold identified in table 4.4 of this section.
   B.   Expansions which exceed the thresholds specified in table 4.4 of this
section shall follow the procedures in
 chapter 9.63, "Conditional Use Permit", or
9.68, "Site Plan And Design Review", of this article 4 as required by the
specific land use district in which the property is located.
   C.   Projects are reviewed and acted upon by the director and notice is not
required.
   D.   Projects which fall within the thresholds of the land use compliance
review shall comply with the following:
      1.   Commercial design guidelines.
      2.   Outdoor lighting regulations.
      3.   Parking and screening requirements.
      4.   Sign regulations.
      5.   Dedication of easements for drainage facilities, streets, trails,
avigation easements as required by this code and any adopted plans.
      6.   Landscaping And Landscaping Plan Regulations: Up to four hundred
ninety nine (499) square feet for new landscaping, and up to two thousand four
hundred ninety nine (2,499) square feet for rehabilitated existing landscaping.
Any remaining required landscape area shall be covered with decorative non-
irrigated landscape material such as gravel, pebble, bark, and other similar
materials.
      7.   All other applicable development code regulations.
   E.   Projects which fall within the thresholds of the land use compliance
review shall not be required to comply with the following:
      1.   Half (1/2) width street improvements (curb, gutter, sidewalk,
streetlights, pavement) on all streets fronting the project.
      2.   On site water retention of incremental increase.
      3.   Improvements to drainage facilities, except as defined by the
parameters of the council policies regarding drainage facilities.
      4.   Assessment districts formation (including landscape and lighting,
street and drainage and public safety).
      5.   Utility undergrounding, pursuant to adopted standards.
(Ord. 243, 10-15-2013; amd. Ord. 300, 3-1-2022; Ord. 322, 11-19-2024)
9.66.020: MINOR MODIFICATION OF PREVIOUSLY APPROVED LAND USE COMPLIANCE REVIEW:
An approved land use compliance review may be modified upon the request of the
property owner, or by the town. Minor modifications may be approved by the
director if it is determined that the changes would not affect the findings
prescribed in section
9.83.050, "Required Findings", of this title, and that the subject of the
proposed changes were not items of public controversy during the review and
approval of the original permit; including modification of the phasing schedule
for the project. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.66.030: LAPSE OF PERMITS/PERMIT EXPIRATION:
   A.   Expiration: Land use compliance review approval shall expire three (3)
years from the date the permit is approved unless it is otherwise conditioned
or unless prior to the expiration of the three (3) years the following have
occurred:
      1.   A building permit is issued and substantial construction is
diligently pursued toward completion of the project which was the subject of
the land use compliance review application. In addition, if after construction
is commenced, work is discontinued for a period of two (2) years, then the land
use compliance review shall become null and void; or
      2.   A certificate of occupancy is issued for the structure which was the
subject of the land use compliance review.
   B.   Phased Projects: Projects may be built in phases if so approved by the
director or as modified by the director.
      1.   After a land use compliance review has been approved and the
expansion project is constructed and has received a certificate of occupancy by
the building and safety division, a subsequent land use compliance review shall
not be approved by the town for a period of three (3) years. Should an
additional expansion be necessary during the three (3) years following final
inspection the applicant or project owner shall present to the commission those
circumstances, facts and issues for special consideration of additional
construction within that three (3) year time period. If not so approved by the
planning commission the project will require a conditional use permit or site
plan and design review, consistent with the use classification charts for the
appropriate land use district.
A maximum of two (2) LUCR applications may be approved for a site. Should
additional expansions be necessary, the project shall be reviewed through a
site plan and design review or conditional use permit as required by this code.
(Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.66.040: EXTENSION OF TIME:
The director may grant a time extension not to exceed three (3) years.
Applications shall be made on a form to be provided by the planning division.
Prior to the granting of an extension, the director shall review the previously
approved project to ensure it is consistent with all current provisions of the
general plan, development code and other town ordinances. Based upon this
review, additional conditions of approval may be imposed upon the project by
the review authority when the extension of time is approved.
The director may grant additional extensions of time provided that the project
is consistent with the general plan, development code, master plans and
specific plans. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.66.050: AMENDMENT:
Refer to
chapter 9.83, "Permit Amendments", of this title. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.66.060: REVOCATION:
Refer to
chapter 9.84, "Permit Revocations", of this title. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.66.070: FEES:
The application shall be accompanied by a fee established by resolution of the
council to cover the cost of handling and processing the application as
prescribed in this chapter. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
CHAPTER 9.67
PLANNED DEVELOPMENT PERMITS
SECTION:
9.67.010: Purpose
9.67.020: Planned Development Permits
9.67.030: Required Findings
9.67.040: Concurrent Subdivision Applications
9.67.050: Development Plans
9.67.060: Amendment
9.67.070: Revocation
9.67.080: Fees
9.67.010: PURPOSE:
The planned development process is intended to facilitate development of
properties where greater flexibility in design is desired to provide a more
efficient use of land than would be possible through strict application of land
use district regulations. This process is also intended to serve as an
alternative site planning process that encourages the more creative and
imaginative planning, consistent with the density and intensity of uses allowed
by the general plan, within the framework of a single cohesive development
plan. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.67.020: PLANNED DEVELOPMENT PERMITS:
The commission shall review and the council shall act upon all initial
applications for preliminary development plans and significant revisions to
previously approved preliminary development plans for planned developments.
However, a recommendation for denial by the commission shall terminate any
application for a planned development, unless it is appealed in accordance with
the provisions of this title. The commission shall review and act upon all
applications for final development plans for planned developments. The
development review committee shall review all applications for preliminary or
final development plans prior to their review by the commission or council.
(Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.67.030: REQUIRED FINDINGS:
Prior to approving a request for a planned development, the reviewing authority
shall find that all of the following are true:
   A.   The proposed development is consistent with the general plan and any
applicable plan.
   B.   The physical characteristics of the site have been adequately assessed
and that the site for the proposed development is adequate in size and shape to
accommodate said use and all yards, open spaces, setbacks, walls and fences,
parking areas, loading areas, landscaping and other features.
   C.   The site for the proposed development has adequate access, meaning that
the site design and development plan conditions consider the limitations of
existing streets and highways and provide improvement to accommodate the
anticipated requirements of the proposed development.
   D.   Adequate public services and facilities exist, or will be provided in
accordance with the conditions of development plan approval, to serve the
proposed development and that the approval of the proposed development will not
result in a reduction of such public services to properties in the vicinity to
be a detriment to the public health, safety and welfare.
   E.   The proposed development, as conditioned, will not have a substantial
adverse effect on surrounding property or the permitted use thereof, and will
be compatible with the existing and planned land use character of the
surrounding area.
   F.   The improvements required per the conditions of development plan
approval, and the manner of development adequately address all natural and
manmade hazards associated with the proposed development and the project site
including, but not limited to, flood, seismic, fire and slope hazards.
   G.   The proposed development carries out the intent of the planned
development provisions by providing a more efficient use of the land and an
excellence of design greater than that which would be achieved through the
application of conventional development standards. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.67.040: CONCURRENT SUBDIVISION APPLICATIONS:
Applications for a planned development shall not constitute an application for
subdivision. If a subdivision of land is proposed in conjunction with a planned
development project, separate application, review and findings shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of this code.
In the event a tentative subdivision map application is concurrently filed with
a planned development application, expiration of an approved or conditionally
approved planned development site plan shall terminate all proceedings of any
associated land use application. No final subdivision map or parcel map of all
or any portion of the real property included within such a planned development
site plan shall be filed for record without first processing a new planned
development site plan. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.67.050: DEVELOPMENT PLANS:
A detailed site plan or development plan shall be submitted with all planned
development proposals. All such development plans shall contain sufficient
detail to depict the manner in which the proposed development complies with the
provisions of this article 4.
Planned development requests for mixed use projects or projects with more than
five hundred (500) dwelling units may be submitted in two (2) stages. The first
stage shall be referred to as a preliminary development plan and the second
stage shall be referred to as a final development plan. Preliminary development
plans and final development plans are defined as follows:
   A.   Preliminary Development Plan: A preliminary development plan (PDP)
functions as a development suitability analysis and a comprehensive plan of the
proposed developments. The PDP:
      1.   Identifies and quantifies the constraints and opportunities for
development as follows:
         a.   The physical characteristics of the site,
         b.   Available public services and facilities,
         c.   The capacity of the existing circulation system, and
         d.   The existing and planned land use of adjacent properties.
      2.   Establishes a list of specific limits, parameters and planning
objectives to guide development based on the identified development constraints
and opportunities.
      3.   Describes one or more potential development schemes derived from the
limits, parameters and planning objectives controlling the development. Each
proposed development scheme shall describe:
         a.   Proposed land uses and approximate distribution of such land
uses,
         b.   Proposed density of residential uses,
         c.   Estimated population,
         d.   Estimated service demands,
         e.   The anticipated impact on the existing circulation system,
         f.   The anticipated impact on the adjacent properties,
         g.   The relationship of the plan to the various elements of the
general plan, and
         h.   The anticipated types of uses.
      4.   Sets forth in the form of a written text, maps and/or diagrams, a
detailed plan of development based upon the application of the established
limits, parameters and planning objectives controlling development. Said plan
shall describe in detail the following:
         a.   Proposed land uses and building types, the functional arrangement
of such uses and building types and relationship to size, site grading,
circulation, lighting, paving, parking, screening, setbacks, recreation and
open space areas, and adjacent properties,
         b.   How the established limits, parameters and planning objectives
have been adhered to,
         c.   The level of public services and facilities required by the
proposed development and the program for providing, operating and maintaining
such services and facilities,
         d.   Access and circulation requirements,
         e.   Known manmade and natural hazards and methods for mitigation of
such hazards,
         f.   Significant natural features and areas to be retained for common
open space, and provisions for the preservation, conservation, utilization and
maintenance of such areas, and
         g.   How the plan conforms to the objectives of the general plan and
the planned development provisions of this code.
   B.   Final Development Plan: The final development plan is a detailed site
plan which sets forth the location and dimensions of all uses and structures in
sufficient detail to permit recordation and preparation of construction
drawings.
The final development plan shall comply with all approved preliminary
development plans. If no such preliminary development plan has been approved,
the final development plan shall also meet the requirements for preliminary
development plans for the project site.
   C.   Application Procedures For Phased Development:
      1.   An applicant may file the preliminary development plan with the
final development plan, with the consent of the director.
      2.   An application for a preliminary development plan shall encompass
all the land included within the planned development. A final development plan
may be for a portion of the land included within the planned development or a
phase thereof, provided that:
         a.   Each phase shall function as a complete and separate development
from the remaining phases, and
         b.   Any densities proposed or open space areas provided within the
subject phase shall not result from a transfer of density from adjoining
phases.
   D.   Preapplication Conference: Prior to the formal submission of a planned
development application, the applicant shall meet with the development review
committee in order to acquaint the applicant with the procedural requirements
of the planned development provisions of this code and to discuss the general
acceptability of the plan and its compatibility with applicable policies,
issues and development regulations. The preapplication conference shall be
required for mixed use, phased development plans only.
   E.   Conformance Of Plans: Each final development plan shall substantially
conform to the preliminary development plan. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.67.060: AMENDMENT:
Refer to
 chapter 9.83, "Permit Amendments", of this title. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.67.070: REVOCATION:
Refer to
chapter 9.84, "Permit Revocations", of this title. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.67.080: FEES:
The application shall be accompanied by a fee established by resolution of the
council to cover the cost of handling and processing the application as
prescribed in this chapter. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
CHAPTER 9.68
SITE PLAN AND DESIGN REVIEW
SECTION:
9.68.010: Purpose And General Plan Consistency
9.68.020: Applicability
9.68.030: Authority
9.68.040: Application Submittal Requirements
9.68.050: Application Fee
9.68.060: Investigation And Report
9.68.070: Action By Review Authority
9.68.080: Required Findings
9.68.090: Minor Modification Of Previously Approved Site Plan And Design Review
9.68.100: Lapse Of Permits/Permit Expiration
9.68.110: Extension Of Time
9.68.120: Amendment
9.68.130: Revocation
9.68.140: Development Of Property Before Final Decision
9.68.010: PURPOSE AND GENERAL PLAN CONSISTENCY:
The site plan and design review procedure allows the town to evaluate proposed
development and determine its consistency with the general plan, this
development code and applicable town ordinances. The site plan and design
review procedure is intended to protect and enhance the visual appeal,
environment, economic stability and property values of the town's residential,
commercial, and industrial areas through the application of the provisions of
this code and the general plan. Review of such uses is necessary and specific
conditions of approval may be necessary to ensure that the uses are developed,
operated, and located properly with respect to their effects on surrounding
properties and so that any and all potentially adverse impacts are mitigated,
and to ensure the general health, safety and welfare of the community through
implementation of the general plan through this chapter. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.68.020: APPLICABILITY:
The provisions of this Article apply to:
   A.   All new construction which is listed in the use classification charts
for the underlying land use districts that require a Site Plan and Design
Review.
   B.   Expansions which exceed the thresholds of Table 4.5 and are permitted
subject to a Site Plan and Design Review as specified in the use classification
charts for the underlying land use district shall require a Site Plan and
Design Review.
 
TABLE 4.5
SITE PLAN AND DESIGN REVIEW
EXPANSION THRESHOLDS
Square Footage Of Existing Building Maximum        Maximum
                                    Square Footage Percentage
up to 5,000                         1250 sq ft     50%
5,001 - 10,000                      2000 sq ft     50%
10,001 +                            2500 sq ft     50%
 
   C.    Change in use of an existing building
   D.   Projects which fall within the thresholds of the Site Plan and Design
Review shall comply with the General Plan, the Development Code and applicable
Town Ordinances and regulations, including but not limited to:
      1.   Half (1/2) width street improvements (curb, gutter, sidewalk,
streetlights, median islands and pavement) on all streets fronting the project,
pursuant to the Yucca Valley General Plan Circulation Element. For projects
that are a change in use of an existing structure, half-width street
improvements are only required when total vehicle trips are estimated to
increase a minimum of 200 vehicle trips per day compared to the trip generation
from prior site use.
      2.   Onsite water retention of the incremental increase
      3.   Dedication of easements for drainage facilities, streets, trails,
avigation easements as required by this code and any adopted plans.
      4.   Improvements to drainage facilities except as defined by the
parameters of the Council policies regarding drainage facilities.
      5.   Assessment Districts Formation (including Landscape and Lighting,
Street and Drainage Community Facilities District and Public Safety)
      6.   Utility Undergrounding, pursuant to adopted standards
      7.   Landscaping and Landscaping Plan regulations (greater than 500
square feet of landscape area require approval by Hi Desert Water District)
      8.   Commercial Design Guidelines
      9.   Outdoor Lighting regulations
      10   Parking and screening requirements
      11.   Sign regulations
      12.   All other Development Code regulations
   E.   Expansions which fall within the thresholds specified in Table 4.5
shall be processed as a Land Use Compliance Review, pursuant to
Chapter 9.66 . (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013; Ord. 311, 2-20-2024)
9.68.030: AUTHORITY:
   A.   Level Of Review:
      TABLE 4.6
      SITE PLAN AND DESIGN REVIEW
      LEVEL OF REVIEW
 
Applicability                              Level Of Review Notice Requirements
New structures, including accessory        Commission      None
structures and uses
Expansion of an existing structure in
conformance with section                   Director        None
9.68.020, table 4.5 of this chapter
Expansion of an existing structure which
exceeds the standards as established in    Commission      None
section
9.68.020, table 4.5 of this chapter
Conversion of an existing structure (i.e., Commission      None
change in use)
Construction or conversion of a structure  Commission      None
(s) to allow a mixed use development
 
Where the review for site plan and design review permits is not specified, the
director shall determine the appropriate review authority.
   B.   Referral To Next Higher Review Authority: The commission may refer an
application for a site plan and design review permit to the council based upon
the following criteria:
      1.   Impact upon public services and facilities greater than typical for
the type of project proposed;
      2.   Impact upon surrounding properties greater than typical for the type
of project proposed;
      3.   Floor or site square footage greater than typically found in the
type of project;
      4.   Intensity of use greater than typically found in the type of
project;
      5.   Operating characteristics not typical of the type of project
proposed;
      6.   Other factors including, but not limited to, public opposition to
development of the project;
      7.   The need for commission and/or council interpretation of the general
plan and/or development code as related to the project.
   C.   General Authority: The commission is authorized to approve, approve
with conditions, or deny applications for site plan and design review permits
in compliance with the procedures established in this section. In approving an
application for a site plan and design review permit, the commission may impose
conditions to ensure compliance with this code. Conditions may include, but
shall not be limited to:
      1.   Requirements for special structure setbacks;
      2.   Open spaces;
      3.   Buffers;
      4.   Fences;
      5.   Walls and screening;
      6.   Requirements for the installation and maintenance of landscaping and
erosion control measures;
      7.   Control of street improvements, other public infrastructure and
related dedications;
      8.   Control of vehicular ingress and egress;
      9.   Control of traffic circulation;
      10.   Control of signs;
      11.   Control of hours of operation;
      12.   Control of potential nuisances;
      13.   Establishing standards for maintenance of buildings and grounds;
      14.   Establishment of development schedules and development standards;
      15.   Control of periodic review;
      16.   Control of architectural and/or building design;
      17.   Any other conditions as may be deemed necessary to ensure the
compatibility with surrounding uses, to preserve the public health, safety and
welfare, and to enable the commission to make the findings required by section
9.68.080, "Required Findings", of this chapter.
   D.   Performance Guarantee: In order to ensure implementation of conditions
attached to a site plan and design review, the applicant may be required to
furnish a surety in a form of an instrument of credit, money or surety bond in
the amount fixed by the authority granting or modifying the site plan and
design review permit.
   E.   Providing Required Improvements: Whenever a site plan and design review
is approved or modified subject to the condition that specified public
improvements shall be installed by the applicant to meet town standards and be
accepted by the town, the applicant may be required to execute an agreement
approved by the town to make such improvements prior to the time/construction
events specified in the site plan and design review permit.
   F.   Conditions Declared Void: Whenever any final judgment of a court of
competent jurisdiction declares one or more of the conditions of a site plan
and design review to be unconstitutional or invalid, such decision shall not
affect the validity of the approval as a whole, or any portion thereof other
than the section so declared.
   G.   Violation Of Condition: Whenever a site plan and design review permit
is approved or modified by the commission subject to a condition(s),
noncompliance with such conditions shall constitute a violation of this code.
Conditions which are not observed or which are violated may be enforced as
provided in
chapter 9.82 of this title or said site plan and design review permit may be
revoked or modified under chapters 9.83, "Permit Amendments", and 9.84, "Permit
Revocations", of this title. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.68.040: APPLICATION SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS:
Applications for site plan and design review permits shall be filed on a form
prescribed by the planning division and shall contain such information and
reports as may be required by the application submittal package or by other
applicable ordinances or by the town in order for the commission to make the
required findings. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.68.050: APPLICATION FEE:
The application shall be accompanied by a fee established by resolution of the
council to cover the cost of handling and processing the application as
prescribed in this chapter. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.68.060: INVESTIGATION AND REPORT:
The director shall cause an analysis of each application for a site plan and
design review to be made. The level of detail of the analysis shall be
appropriate to the type of project proposed and the needs of the commission.
The analysis shall examine the application's consistency with the content,
intent and purpose of the general plan, this development code, and any other
applicable town standards or policies. To ensure effective implementation of
general plan policies and the provisions of this code, applications may be
reviewed by the development review committee prior to consideration by the
commission. As a result of the analysis, the director shall cause a report to
be completed which shall include a listing of proposed conditions necessary to
guarantee the public health, safety and welfare, should the proposed project be
approved. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.68.070: ACTION BY REVIEW AUTHORITY:
   A.   Commission Action: Pursuant to section
9.68.030, "Authority", of this chapter, the commission shall review each
application for a site plan and design review. The applicant shall be provided
with a copy of the planning division's report regarding the application prior
to the commission's consideration. The commission shall approve, deny, or
conditionally approve applications for site plan and design review. Decisions
by the commission shall be final unless appealed as provided in
chapter 9.81, "Appeals", of this title. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.68.080: REQUIRED FINDINGS:
Before approving a site plan and design review permit, the commission shall
find that the circumstances established below apply:
   A.   That the location, size, design, density and intensity of the proposed
development is consistent with the general plan, the purpose of the land use
district in which the site is located, and the development policies and
standards of the town;
   B.   That the location, size, design and architectural design features of
the proposed structures and improvements are compatible with the site's natural
landform, surrounding sites, structures and streetscapes;
   C.   That the proposed development produces compatible transitions in the
scale, bulk, coverage, density and character of the development between
adjacent land uses;
   D.   That the building site and architectural design is accomplished in an
energy efficient manner;
   E.   That the materials, textures and details of the proposed construction,
to the extent feasible, are compatible with the adjacent and neighboring
structures;
   F.   That the development proposal does not unnecessarily block views from
other buildings or from public ways, or visually dominate its surroundings with
respect to mass and scale to an extent unnecessary and inappropriate to the
use;
   G.   That the amount, location, and design of open space and landscaping
conforms to the requirements of this development code, enhances the visual
appeal and is compatible with the design and functions of the structure(s),
site and surrounding area;
   H.   That quality in architectural design is maintained in order to enhance
the visual environment of the town and to protect the economic value of
existing structures;
   I.   That there are existing public facilities, services, and utilities
available at the appropriate levels and/or that new or expanded facilities,
services and utilities shall be required to be installed at the appropriate
time to serve the project as they are needed;
   J.   That access to the site and circulation on and off site is required to
be safe and convenient for pedestrians, bicyclists, equestrians and motorists;
   K.   That traffic generated from the proposed project has been sufficiently
addressed and mitigated and will not adversely impact the capacity and physical
character of surrounding streets;
   L.   That traffic improvements and/or mitigation measures have been applied
or required in a manner adequate to maintain a level of service C or better on
arterial roads, where applicable, and are consistent with the circulation
element of the town general plan;
   M.   That there will not be significant harmful effects upon environmental
quality and natural resources including endangered, threatened, rare species,
their habitat, including, but not limited to, plants, fish, insects, animals,
birds or reptiles;
   N.   That there are no other relevant or anticipated negative impacts of the
proposed use that cannot be mitigated and reduced to a level of nonsignificance
in conformance with CEQA, the California environmental quality act;
   O.   That the impacts which could result from the proposed development, and
the proposed location, size, design and operating characteristics of the
proposed development, and the conditions under which it would be operated or
maintained will not be detrimental to the public health, safety and welfare of
the community or be materially injurious to properties or improvements in the
vicinity or be contrary to the adopted general plan;
   P.   That the proposed development will comply with each of the applicable
provisions of this code, and applicable town policies; except approved
variances. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.68.090: MINOR MODIFICATION OF PREVIOUSLY APPROVED SITE PLAN AND DESIGN
REVIEW:
An approved site plan and design review permit may be modified upon the request
of the property owner, or by the town. Minor modifications may be approved by
the director if it is determined that the changes would not affect the findings
prescribed in section
9.68.080, "Required Findings", of this chapter, and that the subject of the
proposed changes were not items of public controversy during the review and
approval of the original permit; including modifications to phasing schedules
for the project. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.68.100: LAPSE OF PERMITS/PERMIT EXPIRATION:
   A.   Expiration: A site plan and design review permit approval shall expire
three (3) years from the date the permit is approved unless it is otherwise
conditioned or unless prior to the expiration of the three (3) years the
following have occurred:
      1.   A building permit is issued and substantial construction is
diligently pursued toward completion of the project which was the subject of
the site plan and design review permit application. After construction is
commenced, if work is discontinued for a period of two (2) years, the site plan
and design review permit requires review and reauthorization by the commission;
or
      2.   A certificate of occupancy is issued for the structure which was the
subject of the site plan and design review permit application.
   B.   Phased Projects: Projects may be built in phases if so approved by the
commission or director pursuant to section
9.68.090, "Minor Modification Of Previously Approved Site Plan And Design
Review", of this chapter. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.68.110: EXTENSION OF TIME:
The commission may grant extensions not to exceed three (3) years. Applications
shall be made on a form to be provided by the planning division. Prior to the
granting of an extension, the planning division shall review the previously
approved project to ensure it is consistent with all current general plan,
development code and other town ordinances and that the findings for approval
of a site plan and design review permit in compliance with section
9.68.080, "Required Findings", of this chapter, can be made. Based upon this
review, additional conditions of approval may be imposed upon the project by
the review authority when the extension of time is approved.
The commission may grant additional extensions of time provided that the
project is consistent with the general plan, development code, master plans and
specific plans. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.68.120: AMENDMENT:
Refer to
 chapter 9.83, "Permit Amendments", of this title. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.68.130: REVOCATION:
Refer to
chapter 9.84, "Permit Revocations", of this title. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.68.140: DEVELOPMENT OF PROPERTY BEFORE FINAL DECISION:
A building permit shall not be issued for, and no person shall commence to use,
any structure until that structure and its accompanying development has
received a site plan and design review in compliance with the provisions of
this chapter. In addition, no other permits shall be issued for any use or
structure requiring a site plan and design review unless and until the site
plan and design review has been approved. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
CHAPTER 9.69
SPECIAL USE PERMITS
SECTION:
9.69.010: Purpose
9.69.020: Applicability
9.69.030: Procedures
9.69.040: Application Submittal Requirements
9.69.050: Application Fee
9.69.060: Investigation And Report
9.69.070: Required Findings
9.69.080: Development Of Property Before Final Decision
9.69.010: PURPOSE:
The special use permit review procedure allows the town to evaluate proposed
development and determine its consistency with the general plan, this
development code and applicable town ordinances. The special use permit review
procedure is intended to protect and enhance the visual appeal, environment,
economic stability and property values of the town's residential, commercial,
and industrial areas through the application of the provisions of this code and
the general plan. Review of such uses is necessary and specific conditions of
approval may be necessary to ensure that the uses are developed, operated and
located properly with respect to their effects on surrounding properties and so
that any and all potentially adverse impacts are mitigated, and to ensure the
general health, safety and welfare of the community through implementation of
the general plan through this chapter. The special use permit review process is
intended to preserve the town of Yucca Valley's unique character and to
implement the general plan by creating a built environment that is consistent
and compatible with the desert environment. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.69.020: APPLICABILITY:
The provisions of this chapter are applicable to:
   A.   All uses which are listed in the permitted land use and permit
requirements tables for the underlying land use districts that require a
special use permit review, including, but not limited to:
      1.   Bed and breakfast lodging.
      2.   Animal keeping, breeding/raising of densities greater than those
specified by section
9.08.020 of this title.
      3.   Exotic animals.
      4.   Private kennels/small animals.
      5.   Recycling facilities.
      6.   Large family daycare.
      7.   Emergency homeless shelters. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.69.030: PROCEDURES:
   A.   Review: Director shall review and act upon requests for special use
permits subject to the findings and conditions for each use type as cited
within the section of this code that provides for said use.
   B.   Procedure And Authority:
      1.   Procedure: Staff review with notice.
      2.   Reviewing authority: Director.
   C.   Meeting; Testimony: When necessary, the director may hold an advertised
meeting to consider evidence and take testimony prior to acting upon an
application for a special use permit.
   D.   Conditions May Be Imposed: In approving an application for a special
use permit, the director may impose conditions to ensure compliance with this
code.
   E.   Revocation Of A Special Use Permit: Noncompliance with the conditions
set forth in approving the permit shall be grounds for the reviewing authority
to cancel and void any special use permit. The reviewing authority shall give
notice of such an action to the permittee. The permittee may appeal such a
decision by filing an appeal as allowed and specified in
 chapter 9.81, "Appeals", of this title. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.69.040: APPLICATION SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS:
Applications for special use permits shall be filed on a form prescribed by the
planning division and shall contain such information and reports as may be
required by the application submittal package or by other applicable ordinances
or by the town in order for the director to make the required findings. (Ord.
243, 10-15-2013)
9.69.050: APPLICATION FEE:
The application shall be accompanied by a fee established by resolution of the
council to cover the cost of handling and processing the application as
prescribed in this chapter. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.69.060: INVESTIGATION AND REPORT:
The director shall cause an analysis of each application for a special use
permit to be made. The level of detail of the analysis shall be appropriate to
the type of project proposed and the needs of the planning division. The
analysis shall examine the application's consistency with the content, intent
and purpose of the general plan, this development code, and any other
applicable town standards or policies. As a result of the analysis, the
planning division may include a listing of proposed conditions necessary to
guarantee the public health, safety and welfare, should the proposed project be
approved. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.69.070: REQUIRED FINDINGS:
Before approving a special use permit, the director shall find that the
circumstances established below apply:
   A.   That the location, size, design, density and intensity of the proposed
use is consistent with the general plan, the purpose of the land use district
in which the site is located, and the development policies and standards of the
town;
   B.   That the location, size, design and architectural design features of
the proposed structures and improvements are compatible with the site's natural
landform, surrounding sites, structures and streetscapes;
   C.   That the development proposal does not unnecessarily block views from
other buildings or from public ways, or visually dominate its surroundings with
respect to mass and scale to an extent unnecessary and inappropriate to the
use;
   D.   That quality in architectural design is maintained in order to enhance
the visual desert environment of the town and to protect the economic value of
existing structures;
   E.   That there are existing public facilities, services, and utilities
available at the appropriate levels and/or that new or expanded facilities,
services and utilities shall be required to be installed at the appropriate
time to serve the project as they are needed;
   F.   That access to the site and circulation on and off site is required to
be safe and convenient for pedestrians, bicyclists, equestrians and motorists;
   G.   That traffic generated from the proposed project has been sufficiently
addressed and mitigated and will not adversely impact the capacity and physical
character of surrounding streets;
   H.   That there will not be significant harmful effects upon environmental
quality and natural resources including endangered, threatened, rare species,
their habitat, including, but not limited to, plants, fish, insects, animals,
birds or reptiles;
   I.   That there are no other relevant or anticipated negative impacts of the
proposed use that cannot be mitigated and reduced to a level of nonsignificance
in conformance with CEQA, the California environmental quality act;
   J.   That the impacts which could result from the proposed development, and
the proposed location, size, design and operating characteristics of the
proposed development, and the conditions under which it would be operated or
maintained will not be considered to be detrimental to the public health,
safety and welfare of the community or be materially injurious to properties
and/or improvements within the immediate vicinity or be contrary to the general
plan; and
   K.   That the proposed development will comply with each of the applicable
provisions of this development code and applicable town policies, except
approved variances. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.69.080: DEVELOPMENT OF PROPERTY BEFORE FINAL DECISION:
A building permit shall not be issued for, and no person shall commence to use,
any structure until that structure and its accompanying development has
received a special use permit in compliance with the provisions of this
chapter. In addition, no other permits shall be issued for any use or structure
requiring a special use permit unless and until the special use permit has been
approved. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
CHAPTER 9.70
SPECIFIC PLANS
SECTION:
9.70.010: Purpose
9.70.020: General Plan Consistency
9.70.030: General Provisions For A Specific Plan District
9.70.040: Application Procedure
9.70.050: Required Findings
9.70.060: Specific Plan Approval, Denial And Modifications
9.70.070: Approval By Ordinance
9.70.080: Dedication And Maintenance Of Open Space
9.70.090: Fees For Subsequent Development Approvals
9.70.100: Specific Plan Consistency
9.70.110: Environmental Exemption For Subsequent Development
9.70.120: Specific Plan Amendment
9.70.130: Specific Plan Revocation
9.70.010: PURPOSE:
The purpose of these specific plan provisions is:
   A.   To establish procedures for adoption, maintenance and administration of
specific plans as allowed in accordance with the provisions of section 65450 et
seq., of the California Government Code and as may be required for the
systematic execution of the general plan;
   B.   To provide a planning framework to guide future public and private
developments and to promote flexibility while ensuring economic viability and
coherent community design;
   C.   To encourage the planned development of discrete neighborhoods and to
permit comprehensive site and infrastructure planning and building design;
   D.   To encourage creative approaches to the use of land, through variation
in the positioning of buildings and the appropriate mixing of land uses,
activities and dwelling types;
   E.   To promote and create public and private open space as an integral part
of land development design;
   F.   To reduce, through clustering and master planning, the amounts of
public and private improvements normally required by developments;
   G.   To maximize the choice in types of housing and living environments
available to town residents; and
   H.   To allow for the nonsequential development of more remote areas in
Yucca Valley provided community facilities, services, and infrastructure are
supplied. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.70.020: GENERAL PLAN CONSISTENCY:
The general plan provides for the adoption of specific plans in the town where
remoteness, environmental constraints or unique land use concerns require
specific land use and/or design controls. All specific plans shall be
consistent with the provisions of the adopted general plan. Any proposed
specific plan which is not consistent with the existing adopted general plan
designation may only be adopted concurrent with the adoption of the appropriate
amendments to the general plan necessary to maintain consistency. (Ord. 243,
10-15-2013)
9.70.030: GENERAL PROVISIONS FOR A SPECIFIC PLAN DISTRICT:
The following provisions shall apply to the designation of a specific plan
district. All other applicable provisions of this town development code shall
also apply. Where conflicts in regulations occur, the regulations specified in
this chapter shall supersede and apply.
   A.   Upon approval of a specific plan, the specific plan zoning designation
shall be applied to the zoning district map for the properties included in the
specific plan.
   B.   Specific plan districts may provide innovative design and development
standards that may vary from adopted town standards and between specific plan
districts.
   C.   Specific plans may combine several land uses in the development plan as
long as the uses are consistent with the land use designations and goals and
policies of the general plan. Mixed uses may include any combination of
residential, commercial, industrial, open space, and agricultural uses, and may
occur among or within buildings as long as the uses are not incompatible with
each other and with existing and potential uses surrounding the specific plan
zone. The commercial mixed use general plan land use designation allows for a
mix of commercial, office, and high density residential uses. Other mixes of
land uses may require appropriate amendments to the general plan necessary to
maintain consistency.
   D.   Standards for building coverage, height, orientation, as well as light
and air, sign placement and design, site planning, street furniture placement
and design, setback requirements, open spaces, off street parking, screening
for specific plan uses, and other specified standards, shall be governed by the
development standards set forth in the specific plan and other applicable codes
and ordinances. Standards in an adopted specific plan may supersede the same or
similar standards in other town codes and ordinances. Where no standards are
provided in a specific plan, adopted town codes and standards shall apply.
   E.   The specific plan shall contain criteria providing for any required
public and/or private open space and performance standards for the improvement
and maintenance of such open space.
   F.   In accordance with town ordinances, all electrical and telephone
facilities, fire alarm conduits, streetlight wiring, cable television, and
other wiring, conduits or facilities shall be placed underground. Underground
electric and telephone facilities shall be installed in accordance with
standard specifications of the serving utilities. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.70.040: APPLICATION PROCEDURE:
   A.   General Requirements For A Specific Plan Proposal: Property that is
held in single or multiple ownership may be considered for a specific plan. The
town, property owner(s), or owner's representative, may initiate the specific
plan.
   B.   Presubmittal And Preparation Of Specific Plans: A presubmittal
application and a draft specific plan shall be submitted to the planning
division before filing a formal specific plan application. A preapplication
conference with the planning division is required prior to the filing of the
formal specific plan application.
   C.   Draft Specific Plan: A draft specific plan application shall contain
text and diagrams which include all of the elements outlined in state
Government Code sections 65451 and 65452. In addition, specific plans shall
include an inventory of natural resources that are deemed to be significant to
the project area and environmentally sensitive habitat areas, an analysis of
existing infrastructure, and a proposal for detailed land uses, regulations,
conditions, and programs as are necessary or convenient for the systematic
implementation of the general plan and its various elements as may be
appropriate. The town's planning division shall make available detailed
guidelines for the preparation of specific plans. Specifically, a draft
specific plan shall include the following information:
      1.   A survey of the property, showing existing features including trees,
structures, fences and walls, streets, easements, utility lines, land uses,
existing zoning, and existing ownership;
      2.   An illustrative plan and conceptual site plan of the development of
the entire specific plan area delineated on one or more maps showing:
         a.   Project land use, densities, existing and proposed streets,
public use areas (schools, parks, fire stations, etc.), and open space and
major landscape features;
         b.   General plan land use and zoning designations;
         c.   Where appropriate, a slope analysis, including the number of
acres in each slope category.
      3.   A general outline of the specific plan text describing the goals,
objectives, and policies/concept; a tabulation of the land area to be devoted
to various uses, including open space; a calculation of the overall density and
the average densities per net residential acre of the various residential
areas; and a summary of development standards for residential, commercial and/
or industrial uses when those uses are proposed;
      4.   The text shall include development standards to be implemented as
performance standards for the specific plan, including:
         a.   A statement proposing the method of maintaining common open areas
and facilities;
         b.   A description of the proposed grading program including a
topographic map showing areas of major grading;
         c.   Identification of proposed future ownership and maintenance of
streets, driveways, sidewalks, pedestrianways and open space areas;
         d.   A brief discussion of the project as it relates to each of the
general plan elements, including land use, circulation, housing, open space/
conservation, noise, and safety;
         e.   Proposed standards for height, open space, building intensity and
public improvements;
         f.   A statement and detailed description for the method of financing
for the installation of any public infrastructure.
      5.   After reviewing the draft specific plan, the director shall furnish
the applicant with written comments regarding the review conference(s),
including appropriate recommendations to inform and assist the applicant prior
to preparing the final specific plan.
   D.   Final Specific Plan: The final specific plan shall contain the
information contained in the draft specific plan and other additional
information as determined to be necessary by the director, commission, or
council. This additional information may include, but shall not be limited to,
the following:
      1.   Copies of legal documents required for dedication or reservation of
public or private open space, for the creation of homeowners' associations for
open space maintenance, or for the creation of financing districts;
      2.   A fiscal impact analysis as may be required by the director;
      3.   A market study discussing the viability of the proposed project as
may be required by the director. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.70.050: REQUIRED FINDINGS:
Before taking any action to approve a specific plan, the planning commission
and council shall find that the proposed specific plan conforms to the
following criteria:
   A.   The proposed specific plan meets all of the following content criteria:
      1.   Specifies through text and/or diagrams, the distribution, location,
and extent of the uses of land, including open space, within the area covered
by the plan;
      2.   Specifies through text and/or diagrams, the proposed distribution,
location, and extent and intensity of major components of public and private
transportation, sewage, water, drainage, solid waste disposal, energy, and
other essential facilities proposed to be located within the area covered by
the plan and needed to support the land uses described in the plan;
      3.   Specifies through text and/or diagrams, the standards and criteria
by which development will proceed, and standards for the conservation,
development, and utilization of natural resources, where applicable;
      4.   Specifies a program of implementation measures including regulation,
programs, public works projects, and financing measures necessary to carry out
subsections A1, A2 and A3 of this section;
      5.   Includes a statement of the relationship of the specific plan to the
general plan, development code, and any other applicable plan or ordinance;
      6.   Addresses any other subjects which are necessary for implementation
of the general plan.
   B.   The location and design of the proposed development will be consistent
with the goals and policies of the general plan and with any other applicable
plan or policies adopted by the town and with any other applicable provisions
of this development code.
   C.   The proposed location will allow the development to be well integrated
with or adequately buffered from its surroundings, whichever may be
appropriate.
   D.   All vehicular traffic generated by the development, either in phased
increments or at full build out, will be accommodated safely and without
causing significantly increased congestion upon adjoining streets.
   E.   The final specific plan will identify a methodology to allow land uses
to be adequately serviced by existing or proposed public facilities and
services. In appropriate circumstances, and as provided elsewhere by this
development code, the town may require that suitable areas be reserved for uses
such as schools, parks and pedestrianways; public open spaces may be dedicated
or reserved by private covenant for the common use of residents, establishments
or operations in the development.
   F.   In accordance with the requirements of the California environmental
quality act (CEQA), environmental impacts have been reduced to a level of
nonsignificance; or in the case where such impacts remain, a statement of
overriding considerations must be adopted to justify the merits of project
implementation after certification of the environmental impact report.
   G.   The proposed specific plan shall contribute to a balance of land uses
so that local residents may work and shop in the community in which they live.
   H.   The proposed specific plan will not be detrimental to the public
health, safety, or welfare of the town. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.70.060: SPECIFIC PLAN APPROVAL, DENIAL AND MODIFICATIONS:
   A.   Upon receipt in proper form of a specific plan application, or
direction of the council, and following planning division review as provided
for in this chapter, public hearings shall be set before the commission and
council.
   B.   The commission may recommend to the council approval or denial of a
proposed specific plan, or may recommend approval subject to specified
modifications or conditions.
   C.   The council may approve, approve with modifications or conditions, or
deny the final specific plan provided that, in overruling a commission
recommendation for denial, the council shall make the findings listed in
section
9.70.050, "Required Findings", of this chapter.
   D.   Minor changes to an approved final specific plan may be made by the
director, provided that such changes are nonsignificant and consistent with all
of the purposes and character of the approved final specific plan. Minor
changes shall not include:
      1.   Changes in the densities established in the approved final specific
plan;
      2.   Changes to the boundaries of the subject property, or any use as
shown on the approved final specific plan;
      3.   Substantial changes in the locations or amounts of land devoted to
specific land uses.
   E.   All modifications or amendments to an approved final specific plan,
other than minor changes as provided for in subsection D of this section, shall
be processed as a specific plan amendment and shall be subject to all specific
plan procedures. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.70.070: APPROVAL BY ORDINANCE:
Approval of the final specific plan and the establishment of specific plan (SP)
zoning shall be by ordinance. Approval of zoning to the SP district shall
include, but not be limited to, the following stipulations:
   A.   Unless otherwise specified in the final specific plan, the regulations
provided in this town development code shall apply. Approval of the specific
plan shall not be interpreted as waiving compliance with other provisions of
this town development code, except in those instances where the specific plan
expressly regulates a use.
   B.   The approved final specific plan shall be filed in the office of the
town clerk and in the office of the director.
   C.   No building within the boundaries of an approved specific plan shall be
constructed, maintained or used other than for the purpose specified in the
approved final specific plan. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.70.080: DEDICATION AND MAINTENANCE OF OPEN SPACE:
   A.   The commission and council, based upon a recommendation from the Yucca
Valley parks, recreation and cultural commission, may as a condition of
approval, require that suitable areas for parks be dedicated or in lieu fees be
paid as determined for the entire specific plan area, and in compliance with
applicable ordinances and requirements.
   B.   The commission and council, based upon a recommendation from the
Morongo unified school district, may as a condition of approval, require that
land for schools and other public uses be reserved for public use, or be
reserved for the owners and residents in the development by deed restrictions.
   C.   Whenever group or common open space is provided, whether required or
not, the commission and council shall, as a condition of approval, require that
some provision be made for applicable perpetual maintenance of such open space.
   D.   The form of any instrument used to assure open space maintenance shall
be approved by the town attorney and director as to form and content.
Agreements and covenants running with the land shall include provisions for
charges to be levied for carrying out the specified functions and
administrative expenses of such perpetual maintenance. The town may be party in
interest in any such development for purposes of enforcing the provisions of
this chapter, including bringing of any enforcement actions deemed appropriate
by the town.
   E.   To assure that open space is provided within specific plan areas,
public and open space sites shall be dedicated in advance of development (prior
to the issuance of building permits) whenever such dedication is so required,
even in those cases when a subdivision map is not required. Other appropriate
dedications for street, utility and flood control rights of way and for
easements and other public purposes may also be required before the issuance of
the first building permit, or when otherwise determined to be appropriate by
the council. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.70.090: FEES FOR SUBSEQUENT DEVELOPMENT APPROVALS:
   A.   Specific Plan Fees: The application shall be accompanied by a fee
established by resolution of the council to cover the cost of handling and
processing the application as prescribed in this chapter.
   B.   Fees For Subsequent Development Approvals: When the town prepares a
specific plan for an area, the council may establish a special fee upon
applicants seeking approval of development projects which are located within
said specific plan area. The fees shall be sufficient, in the aggregate, to
recover the costs of preparation, adoption, and administration of the specific
plan. The fees to each applicant shall be a prorated amount in accordance with
the applicant's relative benefit derived from the plan. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.70.100: SPECIFIC PLAN CONSISTENCY:
No land use application may be approved, no public works projects may be
approved, and no land use designation within an adopted specific plan may be
amended unless it is consistent with the adopted specific plan. (Ord. 243, 10-
15-2013)
9.70.110: ENVIRONMENTAL EXEMPTION FOR SUBSEQUENT DEVELOPMENT:
If a specific plan is prepared and receives approval of a program EIR, then all
subsequent development within the boundaries of the specific plan are exempt
from further environmental review, unless otherwise required by the California
environmental quality act. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.70.120: SPECIFIC PLAN AMENDMENT:
Refer to
chapter 9.83, "Permit Amendments", of this title. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.70.130: SPECIFIC PLAN REVOCATION:
Refer to
chapter 9.84, "Permit Revocations", of this title. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
CHAPTER 9.71
TEMPORARY SPECIAL EVENT PERMIT
SECTION:
9.71.010: Purpose
9.71.020: Applicability
9.71.030: Permit Required
9.71.040: Application Submittal Requirements
9.71.050: Procedures
9.71.060: Insurance Requirements
9.71.070: Rules And Regulations
9.71.080: Appeals
9.71.090: Referral By The Director
9.71.100: Permits/Licenses Nontransferable
9.71.110: Posting
9.71.120: Requests For Law Enforcement Services At Special Events
9.71.130: Temporary Special Event Amendment
9.71.140: Temporary Special Event Revocation
9.71.010: PURPOSE:
This chapter provides development processes for temporary special events to
ensure that basic health, safety, and community welfare standards are met,
while approving suitable temporary special events with the minimum necessary
conditions or limitations consistent with the temporary nature of the activity.
A temporary special event permit allows short term activities that might not
meet the normal development or use standards of the applicable zoning district,
but may be considered acceptable because of their temporary nature. These
activities are regulated to avoid incompatibility between the proposed activity
and surrounding areas. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.71.020: APPLICABILITY:
The provisions of this chapter are applicable to:
   A.   All uses which are listed in the permitted land use and permit
requirements tables for the underlying land use districts that require a
temporary special event permit, including, but not limited to:
      1.   Church tent revival meetings.
      2.   Circus and carnivals.
      3.   Fairs, concerts, parades, exhibits, festivals, art shows, car shows,
street fairs, or similar events.
      4.   Farmers' market.
      5.   Seasonal holiday sales facilities including Christmas tree lots,
pumpkin patch, etc. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.71.030: PERMIT REQUIRED:
Except as otherwise provided by the town of Yucca Valley or state law, no
person or entity shall operate, maintain, conduct, advertise, or provide
admission for any temporary special event within the town of Yucca Valley
without possessing an unexpired, unsuspended and unrevoked permit from the
planning division for each such temporary special event.
   A.   Procedure: Staff review without notice.
   B.   Review authority: Director. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.71.040: APPLICATION SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Applications for temporary special event permits shall be filed on a
form prescribed by the director and shall contain such information and reports
as may be required by the application submittal package or by other applicable
ordinances or by the town in order for the director to make the required
findings.
   B.   The application processing fees shall be set from time to time by
resolution of the council. In addition, the applicant shall reimburse the town
for the actual cost of providing any necessary personnel, including, but not
limited to, police and fire personnel to the applicant for the purpose of
assisting in the event.
   C.   To ensure cleanup and restoration of the site, an applicant may be
required to post a deposit at the time the application is submitted. Upon the
completion of the event and inspection of the site by the town, the deposit may
be returned to the applicant if the cleanup and restoration of the site has
been determined by the town to be sufficient. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.71.050: PROCEDURES:
Upon the receipt of a completed application and all related fees, the following
will occur:
   A.   The processing of a complete temporary special event permit application
will generally vary depending on the complexity. If such activities interfere
with traffic or involve potential public safety hazards, an application may
take more than ten (10) working days to allow for interdepartmental or agency
notification.
   B.   Each application for a temporary special event permit shall be analyzed
at staff level to assure that the application is consistent with this chapter
and any other applicable town standards or policies. If such activities
interfere with traffic or involve potential public safety hazards the
application shall be forwarded to the appropriate agencies for comment.
   C.   At the completion of the planning section's review, a permit may be
issued by the director including a listing of conditions necessary to assure
the preservation of public health, safety and welfare. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.71.060: INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Before any permit is issued for a church tent revival meeting, circus,
large concert, parade, carnival, fair, exhibit, festival, art show, car show,
street fair, farmers' market, or similar type of event, the applicant shall
provide the town with evidence of a policy of liability insurance issued by an
admitted insurer in an amount of not less than one million dollars
($1,000,000.00). This policy shall meet all requirements of the town of Yucca
Valley, including listing the town as additionally insured on the endorsement.
   B.   The applicant shall enter into a hold harmless and indemnification
agreement provided by the town prior to the issuance of any permit. (Ord. 243,
10-15-2013)
9.71.070: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Change Of Date: Upon the request of the applicant, the issuing
authority shall have the power, upon a showing of good cause, to change the
date for which the permit has been issued provided established limitations are
complied with in respect to time and location.
   B.   Conditions Of Approvals: The conditions of approval shall be based upon
the following criteria:
      1.   Health, Safety, And Welfare: The health, safety, and welfare of all
persons;
      2.   Vehicle And Pedestrian Circulation: Avoidance of undue disruption of
all vehicle and pedestrian circulation within the affected area;
      3.   Property Safety: The safety of property within the town;
      4.   Agency Regulations: Compliance with all other applicable agency
regulations;
      5.   Traffic Movement: If an event is held within a parking area, the
event shall not substantially alter the existing circulation pattern of the
site or impact traffic movement with adjacent or surrounding public roadways.
      6.   Handicap Access: The event shall not obstruct any existing handicap
accessible parking space. Sidewalks shall be maintained at a minimum width of
four feet (4') to provide for handicap access.
      7.   Dust Control: Where an activity takes place within an unimproved
(dirt) area, some form of dust control will need to be provided as approved by
the town.
      8.   Duration: The event is limited to a duration that is no more than
the maximum allowed duration (see section
9.38.020, table 3-24 of this title), or as determined appropriate by the review
authority.
      9.   Adequacy Of Site: The site is physically adequate for the type,
density, and intensity of use being proposed, including provision of services
(e.g., sanitation and water), public access, and the absence of physical
constraints.
      10.   Existing Land Uses: The design, location, size, and operating
characteristics of the proposed use are compatible with the existing land uses
on site and in the vicinity of the subject property.
      11.   Site Restoration: The temporary use or activity will be removed and
the site restored as necessary to ensure that no changes to the site will limit
the range of possible future land uses otherwise allowed by this title.
      12.   Temporary Parking: Adequate temporary parking will be provided in
order to accommodate the vehicle traffic generated by the temporary use or
special event either on site or at alternate locations acceptable to the review
authority.
      13.   Appropriate Facilities And Measures: The applicant provides
appropriate sanitary and medical facilities, security and safety measures, and
solid waste collection and disposal to the satisfaction of the director.
      14.   Compliance With Laws: The use or event will comply with all
applicable provision of local, state and federal laws or regulations.
      15.   Nuisances: Regulation of nuisance factors such as, but not limited
to, prevention of glare or direct illumination on adjacent properties, noise,
vibration, smoke, dust, dirt, odors, gases and heat.
      16.   Temporary Signs: One temporary sign per street frontage is allowed
as part of the temporary special event permit. For additional signage, see
chapter 9.36 of this title (temporary signs) regarding temporary sign
standards.
      17.   Special Event Monitoring And Security:
         a.   The director or the commission, as a condition of approval, may
require monitoring of the special event by appropriate town departments and/or
third parties. Such monitoring shall be at the expense of the applicant, with
any associated payment required in full at least fifteen (15) days prior to the
first day of the subject event.
         b.   Facility use deposits will be considered on a case by case basis
to evaluate potential damage to town streets, parks, or other public property.
The town shall evaluate the potential for damage and may require a cash bond or
other guarantee for removal of the temporary use, cleanup, repair and
restoration of the activity site within seven (7) days of the conclusion of the
special event. Said guarantee shall be in an amount which is sufficient to
cover the estimated costs of administration, steam cleaning, sidewalk repair,
storm drain cleanout, and other associated cleanup or repair operations. All
facility use deposits shall be at the expense of the applicant, with any
associated payment required in full at least fifteen (15) days prior to the
first day of the subject event.
      18.   Consumption Of Alcoholic Beverages At Special Events:
         a.   Verification of permits from the state department of alcoholic
beverage control is required for the temporary service or sale of alcoholic
beverages at a special event. Such verification shall be provided by the
applicant at least fifteen (15) days prior to the first day of the subject
event.
         b.   All other requirements of the town of Yucca Valley and the state
department of alcoholic beverage control regarding the selling and consumption
of alcohol must be met to the satisfaction of the director.
      19.   Other Factors: Any other pertinent factors affecting the operation
of the temporary special event, at the discretion of the director, will be
addressed to ensure the orderly and efficient operation of the proposed use or
event, in compliance with the intent and purpose of this chapter.
   C.   Additional Regulations: From time to time, the director may recommend,
as deemed necessary, rules and regulations to implement the provisions of this
section. Such rules and regulations shall have the force of law and failure to
comply shall be considered a violation of the provisions of this section. The
rules and regulations to be adopted shall be implemented with the following
intent:
      1.   Maintain the health and safety of persons and property within the
town.
      2.   Avoid undue disruption of persons and traffic within the affected
areas of town. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.71.080: APPEALS:
Any person aggrieved or affected by a decision of the director in denying a
temporary special event permit may appeal to the commission in writing within
ten (10) days after notice of the decision is given.
Any person aggrieved or affected by a decision of the commission in denying a
temporary special event permit may appeal to the council in writing within ten
(10) calendar days after notice of the decision is given. The decision of the
council shall be final. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.71.090: REFERRAL BY THE DIRECTOR:
If in the judgment of the director, a proposed temporary special event may have
a substantial adverse impact on public health, safety or welfare, the director
may elect not to approve a temporary special event permit and may refer the
application for disposition by the commission at its next regularly scheduled
meeting. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.71.100: PERMITS/LICENSES NONTRANSFERABLE:
Any permit issued pursuant to this chapter is not transferable to any other
person, organization or place. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.71.110: POSTING:
Every permit required by these regulations shall be conspicuously posted upon
the premises of the temporary special event. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.71.120: REQUESTS FOR LAW ENFORCEMENT SERVICES AT SPECIAL EVENTS:
Any person or entity required to obtain a permit in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter may request law enforcement services to preserve the
peace at special events. Such application shall be made to the sheriff's
department and shall be in writing, stating the name and address of the
applicant, the place where the special event is to be held, the estimated
number of persons to be present and the purpose of the special event. Upon
receipt of said application, the sheriff's department shall determine whether
law enforcement services are necessary to preserve the peace, and if the
sheriff's department so determines, and if the services will not reduce the
normal and regular ongoing service that the town would otherwise provide, the
sheriff's department shall contract with the applicant to provide the services
at an amount to include all costs.
The town may require as a condition of approval the applicant to obtain law
enforcement services at the event. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.71.130: TEMPORARY SPECIAL EVENT AMENDMENT:
Refer to
 chapter 9.83, "Permit Amendments", of this title. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.71.140: TEMPORARY SPECIAL EVENT REVOCATION:
Refer to
chapter 9.84, "Permit Revocations", of this title. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
CHAPTER 9.72
TEMPORARY USE PERMITS
SECTION:
9.72.010: Purpose
9.72.020: Applicability
9.72.030: Procedures
9.72.040: Application
9.72.050: Required Findings
9.72.060: Conditions Of Approval
9.72.070: Use Of Property Before Final Decision
9.72.080: Temporary Use Amendment
9.72.090: Temporary Use Revocation
9.72.010: PURPOSE:
This chapter is intended to establish regulations and procedures for the review
of temporary accessory uses and for temporary uses related to current and
ongoing construction activities that are not otherwise permitted or regulated
in this development code in order to minimize any adverse effects on
surrounding properties and infrastructure or on the public health, safety and
welfare. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.72.020: APPLICABILITY:
The provisions of this chapter are applicable to:
   A.   All uses which are listed in the permitted land use and permit
requirements tables for the underlying land use districts that require a
temporary use permit, including, but not limited to:
      1.   Construction yards - off site.
      2.   Temporary residential quarters.
      3.   Temporary nonresidential quarters.
      4.   Temporary construction office quarters.
      5.   Temporary real estate model home/sales office.
      6.   Temporary on-your-lot builder model home/sales office. (Ord. 243,
10-15-2013)
9.72.030: PROCEDURES:
   A.   Review: The director shall review and act upon all requests for
temporary use permits (TUP) or extensions thereof, subject to the findings and
conditions specified for each use by the section of this code that provides for
said use.
   B.   Fee: The application shall be accompanied by a fee established by
resolution of the council to cover the cost of handling and processing the
application as prescribed in this chapter.
   C.   Duration: Temporary use permits shall be first issued for a period of
time not to exceed twelve (12) months. Extensions to such permits may be
granted for additional periods of time, each of which shall not exceed twelve
(12) months. A temporary use permit that is extended shall comply with the
provisions, procedures, findings and conditions specified by this code.
      1.   A temporary use permit shall not be extended by any reviewing
authority for any period of time to exceed five (5) years after the date the
temporary use permit was first issued, unless acted upon by the planning
commission. The planning commission retains the authority to grant temporary
use permit extensions beyond five (5) years.
      2.   Director may approve such permits or extensions of such permits for
shorter periods of time and/or subject to conditions, where required by this
chapter or where it is determined reasonable and necessary to do so.
      3.   Prior to issuing a temporary use permit extension or renewal for the
last allowed period of time (normally between the fourth and fifth year), the
permittee shall submit and obtain approval by the director of a plan of action
to either remove or replace the subject temporary use with a legally
established use.
      4.   A temporary use structure which does not have a valid and current
permit is hereby declared to be a public nuisance, subject to the enforcement
provisions of this code and other applicable laws.
      5.   A change of ownership or operator of a use or structure subject to a
temporary use permit or change of structure or modification of the structure or
use allowed on a parcel subject to a temporary use permit shall not affect the
time periods established by this chapter to allow such temporary uses or
structures.
      6.   When the last period of time allowed by this chapter has lapsed, the
temporary use permit and any extensions thereof shall be considered void. A
temporary use or structure that was allowed on a subject parcel previously by a
temporary use permit may not be reinstated by a new temporary use permit for
any time period beyond the final period of time that would have been allowed by
the original temporary use permit.
   D.   Procedure And Authority:
      1.   Procedure: Planning division review without notice.
      2.   Reviewing authority: Director.
   E.   Cancellation Of A Temporary Use Permit: Noncompliance with the
conditions set forth in approving the permit shall be grounds for the reviewing
authority to cancel and void any temporary use permit. The reviewing authority
shall give notice of such an action to the permittee. The permittee may appeal
such a decision by filing an appeal as allowed and specified in this chapter.
   F.   Performance Bond: The director may require cash deposit or other surety
to defray the costs of cleanup of a site in the event the applicant fails to
leave the property in a presentable and satisfactory condition, or to guarantee
removal and/or reconversion of any temporary use to a permanent use allowed in
the zoning district in which it is located. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.72.040: APPLICATION:
   A.   Applications for temporary use permits shall be filed on a form
prescribed by the director and shall contain such information and reports as
may be required by the application submittal package or by other applicable
ordinances or by the town in order for the director to make the required
findings.
   B.   To ensure cleanup and restoration of the site, an applicant may be
required to post a deposit at the time the application is submitted. Upon the
completion of the event and inspection of the site by the town, the deposit may
be returned to the applicant if the cleanup and restoration of the site has
been determined by the town to be sufficient. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.72.050: REQUIRED FINDINGS:
The director may approve, modify or conditionally approve a temporary use
permit application only when the following findings can be made:
   A.   The operation of the requested use at the location proposed and within
the time period specified will not jeopardize, endanger or otherwise constitute
a risk to the public health, safety or welfare;
   B.   The proposed site is adequate in size and shape to accommodate the
temporary use without material detriment to the use and enjoyment of other
properties located adjacent to and in the vicinity of the site;
   C.   The proposed site is adequately served by streets or highways having
sufficient width and improvements to accommodate the kind and quantity of
traffic that the temporary use will or could reasonably be expected to
generate; and
   D.   Adequate temporary parking to accommodate vehicular traffic to be
generated by the use will be available either on site or at alternate locations
acceptable to the director. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.72.060: CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL:
   A.   Authority: In approving an application for a temporary use permit, the
director may impose conditions deemed necessary to ensure that the permit will
be in accordance with the findings required by section
9.72.050 of this chapter. These conditions may involve any pertinent factors
affecting the operation of such temporary event or use, and may include, but
shall not be limited to:
      1.   Provision for temporary parking facilities, including vehicular
ingress and egress;
      2.   Regulation of nuisance factors such as, but not limited to,
prevention of glare or direct illumination on adjacent properties, noise,
vibration, smoke, dust, dirt, odors, gases and heat;
      3.   Regulation of temporary structures and facilities, including
placement, height and size, location of equipment and open spaces, including
buffer areas and other yards;
      4.   Provision for sanitary and medical facilities;
      5.   Provision for solid, hazardous and toxic waste collections and
disposal;
      6.   Provision for security and safety measures;
      7.   Regulation of signs;
      8.   Submission of a performance bond or other surety device,
satisfactory to the director, to ensure that any temporary facilities or
structures used will be removed from the site within a reasonable time and that
the property will be restored to its former condition;
      9.   A requirement that the approval of the requested temporary use
permit is contingent upon compliance with applicable provisions of this code;
and
      10.   Any other conditions which will ensure the operation of the
proposed temporary use in an orderly and efficient manner and in accordance
with the intent and purpose of this chapter. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.72.070: USE OF PROPERTY BEFORE FINAL DECISION:
Uses requiring a temporary use permit shall not commence, and building permits
shall not be issued for any structure accompanying such use until such use has
received a temporary use permit in compliance with the provisions of this
chapter. Permits shall not be issued unless and until the applicable use and/or
structure has been approved and that approval has become final. (Ord. 243, 10-
15-2013)
9.72.080: TEMPORARY USE AMENDMENT:
Refer to
chapter 9.83, "Permit Amendments", of this title. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.72.090: TEMPORARY USE REVOCATION:
Refer to
chapter 9.84, "Permit Revocations", of this title. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
CHAPTER 9.73
VARIANCE REVIEW
SECTION:
9.73.010: Procedures
9.73.020: Variance Amendment
9.73.030: Variance Revocation
9.73.010: PROCEDURES:
   A.   Provisions for variances (exceptions to standards) set forth in this
code are established to ensure that any property, because of special
circumstances, such as size, shape, topography, location, or surroundings,
shall be accorded privileges commonly enjoyed by the other properties in the
same vicinity, pursuant to Government Code section 65906.
   B.   The application shall be accompanied by a fee established by resolution
of the council to cover the cost of handling and processing the application as
prescribed in this chapter.
   C.   1. Procedure: Public hearing.
      2.   Reviewing authority: Commission.
   D.   A public hearing is required to consider evidence and take testimony
prior to acting upon a request for variances and establish any necessary
conditions of approval.
   E.   Prior to approving a request for a variance, the reviewing authority
shall find that the following are true:
      1.   The granting of such variance will not be materially detrimental to
other properties or land uses in the area and will not subsequently interfere
with the present or future ability to use solar energy systems.
      2.   There are exceptional or extraordinary circumstances or conditions
applicable to the property or to an intended use that do not apply to other
properties in the same district or vicinity.
      3.   The strict application of the land use district deprives such
property of privileges enjoyed by other properties in the vicinity or in the
same land use district.
      4.   The granting of the variance is compatible with the objectives,
policies, general land uses and programs in the general plan, this development
code and any applicable plan or other ordinance. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.73.020: VARIANCE AMENDMENT:
Refer to
chapter 9.83, "Permit Amendments", of this title. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.73.030: VARIANCE REVOCATION:
Refer to
chapter 9.84, "Permit Revocations", of this title. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
CHAPTER 9.74
REASONABLE ACCOMMODATIONS
SECTION:
9.74.010: Purpose
9.74.020: Applicability
9.74.030: Review Authority
9.74.040: Definitions
9.74.050: Notice To The Public Of Availability Of Process
9.74.060: Application
9.74.070: Decision
9.74.080: Required Findings
9.74.090: Expiration, Time Extension, Violation, Discontinuance
9.74.100: Amendments
9.74.110: Appeals
9.74.010: PURPOSE:
In accordance with federal and state fair housing laws, it is the purpose of
this chapter to provide reasonable accommodations in the town's zoning and land
use regulations, policies and procedures when needed to ensure equal access to
housing and to facilitate the development of housing for individuals with
disabilities. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.74.020: APPLICABILITY:
Reasonable accommodation in the land use and zoning context means providing
flexibility in the application of land use regulations, policies and procedures
or waiving certain requirements for individuals with disabilities or developers
of housing for people with disabilities, when necessary to eliminate barriers
to housing opportunities. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.74.030: REVIEW AUTHORITY:
The community development director (director) is hereby designated to approve,
conditionally approve, or deny all applications for a reasonable accommodation,
except as prescribed under subsection
9.74.060C of this chapter. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.74.040: DEFINITIONS:
DISABILITY: An individual with a disability is someone who has a physical or
mental impairment that limits one or more major life activities; anyone who is
regarded as having such impairment; or anyone with a record of such impairment.
REASONABLE ACCOMMODATION: In the land use and zoning context means providing
flexibility in the application of land use and zoning regulations, policies,
practices and procedures, or waiving certain requirements to individuals with
disabilities or developers of housing for people with disabilities when it is
necessary to eliminate barriers to housing opportunities. (Ord. 243, 10-15-
2013)
9.74.050: NOTICE TO THE PUBLIC OF AVAILABILITY OF PROCESS:
Notice of the availability of reasonable accommodation shall be prominently
displayed in the public areas of the community development department, advising
the public of the availability of the procedure for eligible individuals. Town
employees shall direct individuals to the display whenever they are requested
to do so or reasonably believe that individuals with disabilities or their
representatives may be entitled to a reasonable accommodation. (Ord. 243, 10-
15-2013)
9.74.060: APPLICATION:
   A.   Applicant: A request for reasonable accommodation may be made by any
person with a disability, their representative, or a developer or provider of
housing for individuals with a disability. A reasonable accommodation may be
approved only for the benefit of one or more individuals with a disability.
   B.   Application: An application for a reasonable accommodation from a
regulation, policy or procedure shall be made on a form provided by the town.
No fee shall be required for a request for reasonable accommodation, but if the
project requires another discretionary permit, then the prescribed fee shall be
paid for all other discretionary permits.
   C.   Other Discretionary Permits: If the project for which the request for
reasonable accommodation is made requires another discretionary permit or
approval, then the applicant may file the request for reasonable accommodation
together with the application for other discretionary permit or approval. The
processing procedures of the discretionary permit shall govern the joint
processing of both the reasonable accommodation and the discretionary permit.
   D.   Required Submittals: An application for reasonable accommodation shall
include the following:
      1.   Request shall be made on a form provided by the town and shall
include the following information:
         a.   Name and address of the individual(s) requesting reasonable
accommodation.
         b.   Name and address of the property owner.
         c.   Address of the property for which accommodation is requested.
      2.   Documentation that the applicant is:
         a.   An individual with a disability,
         b.   Applying on behalf of one or more individuals with a disability,
or
         c.   A developer or provider of housing for one or more individuals
with a disability.
      3.   Identification of the specific exception or modification to the
regulation, policy or procedure requested by the applicant.
      4.   Documentation that the specific exception or modification requested
by the applicant is necessary to provide one or more individuals with a
disability equal access to housing.
      5.   Any other information that the director reasonably concludes is
necessary to determine whether the findings required by section
9.74.080 of this chapter can be made so long as any request for information
regarding the disability of the individuals benefited complies with fair
housing law protections and the privacy rights of the individuals affected.
(Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.74.070: DECISION:
   A.   Review: Requests for reasonable accommodation shall be reviewed by the
director using the criteria set forth in section
9.74.080, "Required Findings", of this chapter.
   B.   Written Decision: The director shall issue a written decision on a
request for reasonable accommodation within thirty (30) days of the date of the
application and may either approve, conditionally approve or deny a request in
accordance with the required findings.
   C.   Additional Information: If necessary to reach a determination on the
request for reasonable accommodation, the director may request further
information from the applicant consistent with fair housing laws, specifying in
detail the information that is required. In the event that a request for
additional information is made, the thirty (30) day period to issue a decision
is stayed until the applicant responds to the request.
   D.   Factors To Consider: The town may consider, but is not limited to, the
following factors in determining whether the requested accommodation is
necessary to provide one or more individuals with a disability with equal
access to housing:
      1.   Whether the requested accommodation will affirmatively enhance the
quality of life of one or more individuals with a disability.
      2.   Whether the individual(s) with a disability will be denied equal
access to the housing of their choice absent the accommodation.
      3.   In the case of a residential care facility, whether the requested
accommodation is necessary to make facilities of a similar nature or operation
economically viable in light of particularities of the relevant market and
market participants.
      4.   In the case of a residential care facility, whether the existing
supply of facilities of a similar nature and operation in the community is
sufficient to provide individuals with a disability an equal opportunity to
live in a residential setting.
   E.   Alteration Of Zoning Program: The town may consider, but is not limited
to, the following factors in determining whether the requested accommodation
would require a fundamental alteration in the nature of the town's zoning
program:
      1.   Whether the requested accommodation would fundamentally alter the
character of the neighborhood.
      2.   Whether the accommodation would result in a substantial increase in
traffic or insufficient parking.
      3.   Whether granting the requested accommodation would substantially
undermine any express purpose of the town's general plan or any applicable
specific plan.
      4.   In the case of a residential care facility, whether the requested
accommodation would create an institutionalized environment due to the number
of and distance between facilities that are similar in nature or operation.
   F.   Rules While Decision Is Pending: While a request for reasonable
accommodation is pending, all laws and regulations otherwise applicable to the
property that is the subject of the request shall remain in full force and
effect.
   G.   Effective Date: No reasonable accommodation shall become effective
until the decision to grant such accommodation shall have become final by
reason of the expiration of time to make an appeal. In the event an appeal is
filed, the reasonable accommodation shall not become final unless and until a
decision is made by the planning commission on such appeal. (Ord. 243, 10-15-
2013)
9.74.080: REQUIRED FINDINGS:
The written decision to approve, conditionally approve or deny a request for
reasonable accommodation shall be based on the following findings, all of which
are required for approval:
   A.   The requested accommodation is requested by or on the behalf of one or
more individuals with a disability protected under the fair housing laws.
   B.   The requested accommodation is necessary to provide one or more
individuals with a disability an equal access to housing.
   C.   The requested accommodation will not impose an undue financial or
administrative burden on the town.
   D.   The requested accommodation will not result in fundamental alteration
of the town's zoning program.
   E.   The requested accommodation will not, under the specific facts of the
case, result in a direct threat to the health or safety of other individuals or
substantial physical damage to the property of others.
In making these findings, the director may approve alternative reasonable
accommodations which provide an equivalent level of benefit to the applicant.
(Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.74.090: EXPIRATION, TIME EXTENSION, VIOLATION, DISCONTINUANCE:
   A.   Expiration: Any reasonable accommodation approved in accordance with
this chapter shall expire within twenty four (24) months from the effective
date of approval or at an alternative time specified as a condition of approval
unless:
      1.   A building permit has been issued and construction has commenced,
      2.   A certificate of occupancy has been issued,
      3.   The use is established, or
      4.   A time extension has been granted.
   B.   Time Extension: The director may approve a time extension for a
reasonable extension for good cause for a period or periods not to exceed three
(3) years from the effective date of approval. An application for a time
extension shall be made in writing to the director no less than thirty (30)
days or more than ninety (90) days prior to the expiration date. Notice of the
director's decision on a time extension shall be sent to the applicant. All
written decisions shall give notice of the right to appeal and to request
reasonable accommodation in the appeals process.
   C.   Violation Of Terms: Any reasonable accommodation approved in accordance
with this code may be revoked if any of the conditions or terms of such
reasonable accommodation are violated or if any law or ordinance is violated in
connection herewith.
   D.   Discontinuance: A reasonable accommodation approval shall lapse if
discontinued for a period of one hundred eighty (180) consecutive days. If the
disabled person initially occupying a residence for whom a reasonable
accommodation was made vacates the structure, the reasonable accommodation
shall remain in effect only if the director determines that:
      1.   The modification is physically integrated into the residential
structure and cannot easily be removed or altered to comply with the code, and
      2.   The accommodation is necessary to give another disabled individual
an equal opportunity to occupy the dwelling.
The director may request the applicant or his or her successor in interest to
the property to provide documentation that subsequent occupants are persons
with disabilities. Failure to provide such documentation within ten (10) days
of the date of a request by the director shall constitute grounds for
discontinuance by the town of a previously approved reasonable accommodation.
(Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.74.100: AMENDMENTS:
A request for changes in conditions of approval of a reasonable accommodation,
or a change to plans that would affect a condition of approval shall be treated
as a new application. The director may waive the requirement for a new
application if the changes are minor, do not involve substantial alterations or
addition to the plans or the conditions of approval, and are consistent with
the intent of the original approval. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
9.74.110: APPEALS:
   A.   Within thirty (30) days of the date of the director's written decision,
an applicant may appeal an adverse decision. Appeals shall be made in writing.
   B.   If an individual needs assistance in filing an appeal on an adverse
decision, the town will provide assistance to ensure that the appeals process
is accessible.
   C.   All appeals shall contain a statement of the grounds for the appeal.
Any information identified by the applicant as confidential shall be retained
in a manner so as to respect the privacy rights of the applicant and shall not
be made available for public inspection.
   D.   Nothing in this procedure shall preclude an aggrieved individual from
seeking any other state or federal remedy available. (Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
CHAPTER 9.75
RESERVED
(Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
CHAPTER 9.76
SIGN PERMITS
(Reserved)
(Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
CHAPTER 9.77
NATIVE PLANT PERMITS
(Reserved)
(Ord. 243, 10-15-2013)
CHAPTER 9.80
ADMINISTRATION; GENERAL
SECTION:
9.80.010: Purpose
9.80.020: Permits And Conditions To Run With The Land
9.80.030: Performance Guarantees
9.80.040: Easements And Deed Notices
9.80.050: Legal Defense Fee Responsibility
9.80.010: PURPOSE:
This chapter establishes general administrative provisions for implementation
and administration of this development code and the permits which are approved
pursuant to this development code. (Ord. 251, 11-18-2014)
9.80.020: PERMITS AND CONDITIONS TO RUN WITH THE LAND:
A conditional use permit, land use compliance review, site plan and design
review permit, variance, planned development permit, specific plan, special use
permit, and other permits issued and approved under this development code that
are granted in compliance with article 4 of this title shall be deemed to run
with the land through any change of ownership of the subject site, from the
effective date of the permit, except in any case where a permit expires and
becomes void. All applicable conditions of approval shall continue to apply
after a change in property ownership. (Ord. 251, 11-18-2014)
9.80.030: PERFORMANCE GUARANTEES:
   A.   Deposit Of Security:
      1.   As a condition of approval of a conditional use permit, land use
compliance review, site plan and design review permit, specific plan, variance,
planned development permit, special use permit, temporary special event permit,
temporary use permit, or upon a finding that the public health, safety, and
welfare warrant, the review authority may require a deposit of security in a
reasonable amount to ensure the faithful performance of one or more of the
conditions of approval in the event that the applicant/owner fails to perform.
      2.   The applicant/owner may elect to provide adequate security for the
faithful performance of a condition(s) of approval imposed as part of the
approval process if the director or planning commission determines that the
condition(s) may be implemented at a later specified date (e.g., inability to
install required landscaping due to poor weather conditions).
      3.   The security shall, as required by law or otherwise at the option of
the town, be in the form of cash, a certified or cashier's check, letter of
credit, a performance bond or other form of surety executed by the applicant
and a corporate surety authorized to do business in California and approved by
the town attorney.
      4.   The security shall remain in effect until all of the secured
conditions have been performed.
      5.   Any security required in compliance with this section shall be
payable to the town.
   B.   Release Of Security: Upon satisfactory compliance with all applicable
provisions of this section, the security deposit shall be released. (Ord. 251,
11-18-2014)
9.80.040: EASEMENTS AND DEED NOTICES:
   A.   Implementation: The town may require offers of dedication, the granting
of easements, or the recordation of deed notices to assist the town in the
implementation of the general plan and/or adopted master plans, including, but
not limited to, the town's master plan of drainage, parks and trails master
plans, and airport comprehensive land use plan.
   B.   Requirements For Easements And Deed Notices: A grant of easement or
deed notice may be required by the town as a condition of issuing a building
permit for any residential or nonresidential project that includes additional
square footage for a new or existing structure and/or any other entitlement.
Recordation of all grants of easement and deed notices on forms to be provided
by the town shall occur prior to the issuance of a building permit or as
otherwise approved by the town.
      1.   Avigation And Noise Easements Or Deed Notices:
         a.   An avigation and noise easement shall be granted to the Yucca
Valley airport district and shall be recorded against those parcels of property
within the avigation easement area as identified on the avigation easement and
deed notice map on file with the town. A copy of the recorded easement shall be
forwarded to the town and the Yucca Valley airport district.
         b.   A deed notice shall be recorded against those parcels of property
outside of the avigation easement area but within the airport influence area as
identified on the airport influence map on file with the town clerk. A copy of
the recorded deed notice shall be forwarded to the town and the Yucca Valley
airport district.
      2.   Drainage Easements: A grant of easement may be required by the town
as a condition of issuing a building permit for any residential or
nonresidential project that includes additional square footage for a new or
existing structure and/or any other entitlement. Parcels that are affected by
the Yucca Valley master plan of drainage and as deemed necessary by the town
engineer shall offer a drainage easement to the town and/or county of San
Bernardino.
      3.   Public Rights Of Way: A grant of easement may be required by the
town as a condition of issuing a building permit for any residential or
nonresidential project that includes additional square footage for a new or
existing structure and/or any other entitlement. Owners/applicants shall offer
easements or dedication of rights of way for streets, roads, alley, sidewalks,
utilities or trails as deemed necessary by the director to implement the town's
roadway and trails networks. (Ord. 251, 11-18-2014)
9.80.050: LEGAL DEFENSE FEE RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.   Applicant's Agreement To Indemnify And Hold Harmless: The applicant
shall agree to defend, indemnify and hold harmless the town of Yucca Valley,
its agents, officers and employees, at his sole expense, against any action,
claim or proceedings brought against the town or its agents, officers or
employees, to attack, set aside, void, or annul this approval or because of the
issuance of such approval, or in the alternative, to relinquish such approval,
in compliance with this development code. The applicant shall reimburse the
town, its agents, officers, or employees for any court costs, and attorney fees
which the town, its agents, officers or employees may be required by a court to
pay as a result of such action. The town may, at its sole discretion,
participate at its own expense in the defense of any such action but such
participation shall not relieve applicant of his obligations under this
condition. The town shall promptly notify the applicant of any claim, action or
proceedings arising from the town's approval of this project, and the town
shall cooperate in the defense. (Ord. 251, 11-18-2014)
CHAPTER 9.81
APPEALS
SECTION:
9.81.010: Appeal Of Land Use Decision
9.81.020: Application For The Appeal Of A Land Use Decision
9.81.030: Time For Filing An Appeal
9.81.040: Notice Of Appeal
9.81.050: Authority Of Appeal Body
9.81.060: Withdrawal Of Appeal
9.81.010: APPEAL OF LAND USE DECISION:
Any land use decision made in compliance with the provisions of this
development code by a review authority other than the council may be appealed
by the applicant or other affected party as described in this chapter.
   A.   Director's Decisions: The director's decision on determinations
required by this code where the director's decision would otherwise be final is
subject to appeal to the commission.
   B.   Commission's Decisions: The commission's decision on determinations
required by this code where the commission's decision would otherwise be final
is subject to appeal to the council.
   C.   Council Considerations:
      1.   The council shall consider appeals of land use decisions made by the
commission. (Ord. 251, 11-18-2014)
9.81.020: APPLICATION FOR THE APPEAL OF A LAND USE DECISION:
   A.   Appropriate Forms: Applications for an appeal of a land use decision
shall be made on forms supplied by the town.
   B.   Appeal Submittals: Applications for appeals addressed to the commission
and town council shall be submitted to the planning division.
   C.   Grounds For Appeal: Application for appeals shall include a written
statement of the grounds upon which the appeal is based.
   D.   Appeal Fees: An appeal fee, as established by the town, shall accompany
any application.
   E.   Contents Of Appeal Application: The appeal application shall identify:
      1.   The subject land use application;
      2.   The specific decision, condition of approval, or other matter being
appealed;
      3.   The date of the action;
      4.   The justification for the appeal; and
      5.   Any remedy or solution for which the appellant petitions.
   F.   Appeal Shall Stay All Proceedings: A properly filed application for
appeal shall stay the proceedings in the matter appealed until a decision is
rendered on the appeal. (Ord. 251, 11-18-2014)
9.81.030: TIME FOR FILING AN APPEAL:
Appeals shall be filed with the planning division within ten (10) consecutive
calendar days following the date of action. If the last day to act is not a
town business day, the following business day shall be deemed to be the last
day to act. (Ord. 251, 11-18-2014)
9.81.040: NOTICE OF APPEAL:
   A.   Notice Of Appeal Required: Within thirty (30) days of the acceptance of
an application for an appeal of a land use decision, the matter shall be set
for hearing and notice shall give the date, time, and place of the hearing to
the appellant, the applicant, and to any other party who has requested in
writing to be so notified.
   B.   Same Notice As Originally Required: In addition, notice shall also be
given in the same manner as notice was given for the land use decision being
appealed. (Ord. 251, 11-18-2014)
9.81.050: AUTHORITY OF APPEAL BODY:
   A.   Action On Appeal: Upon hearing the appeal, the appeal body shall
consider the record and any additional evidence that may be offered, and may
affirm, reverse, or modify, in whole or in part, the decision appealed.
   B.   Applicable Criteria, Findings, And Requirements: The appeal body is
subject to all of the criteria, findings, and requirements imposed by this
development code upon the original decision maker (e.g., review authority).
(Ord. 251, 11-18-2014)
9.81.060: WITHDRAWAL OF APPEAL:
An appeal may be withdrawn before the time that the review authority issues a
decision. The applicant or the applicant's representative shall notify the town
in writing that they wish to withdraw the appeal. (Ord. 251, 11-18-2014)
CHAPTER 9.82
ENFORCEMENT AND VIOLATIONS
SECTION:
9.82.010: Purpose
9.82.020: Permits And Approvals
9.82.030: Authority Of Enforcement
9.82.040: Unlawful To Violate Development Code Provisions
9.82.050: Violations Of Development Code And Conditions Of Approval Declared
Public Nuisance
9.82.060: Unlawful To Refuse Or Fail To Comply With A Condition Of Land Use
Approval
9.82.070: Enforcement
9.82.080: Criminal Actions
9.82.090: Civil Actions
9.82.100: Filing Of A Notice Of Lien/Pendency
9.82.010: PURPOSE:
This chapter establishes provisions that are intended to ensure compliance with
the requirements of this development code and any conditions of permit
approval, to promote the town's planning efforts, and for the protection of the
public health, safety, and welfare of the town. (Ord. 251, 11-18-2014)
9.82.020: PERMITS AND APPROVALS:
All departments, officials, and public employees of the town who are assigned
the authority or duty to issue authorizations, certificates, licenses, or
permits shall comply with the provisions of this development code.
   A.   Permits In Conflict With Development Code: Authorizations,
certificates, licenses, or permits for uses or structures that would be in
conflict with the provisions of this development code shall not be issued.
   B.   Permits Deemed Void: Any authorization, certificate, license, or permit
issued in conflict with the provisions of this development code shall be void
and of no effect. (Ord. 251, 11-18-2014)
9.82.030: AUTHORITY OF ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Responsibility Of Director: The director and designated employees and
representatives shall have the authority to enforce the provisions of this
development code, and shall include, and not be limited to, the town manager,
deputy town manager, town engineer, building official, code compliance
officers, animal control officers, and town attorney.
   B.   Authority To Inspect: All persons authorized to enforce the provisions
of this development code are authorized to enter upon any property or premises
within the town to ascertain whether the property or premises is in compliance
with this development code, and to make any inspections as may be necessary in
the performance of their enforcement duties. These inspections may include the
taking of photographs, samples, or other physical evidence, and the making of
video and/or audio recordings. All such entries and inspections shall be done
in a reasonable manner. If an owner, lawful occupant, or the respective agent,
employee, or representative thereof refuses permission to enter and/or inspect,
the town, acting by and through such persons authorized to enforce this
development code, may seek an administrative inspection warrant pursuant to the
procedures provided by California Code Of Civil Procedures sections 1822.50
through 1822.59, as may be amended from time to time, or the successor
provisions thereto. (Ord. 251, 11-18-2014)
9.82.040: UNLAWFUL TO VIOLATE DEVELOPMENT CODE PROVISIONS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to violate or to cause or to allow a
violation of any provision of this development code. Any act or omission
constituting a violation of this development code includes the aiding,
abetting, allowing, or causing that act or omission.
   B.   Each and every day, and during any portion of which, any violation of
this development code, or of the provisions of any code adopted and
incorporated by reference by this development code, is committed, continued, or
allowed, is a new and separate offense. (Ord. 251, 11-18-2014)
9.82.050: VIOLATIONS OF DEVELOPMENT CODE AND CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL DECLARED
PUBLIC NUISANCE:
   A.   Use Of Land: Any use of land that is not allowed by this development
code (either as a matter of right or through the application of the appropriate
land use approval or permit) and/or which is conducted without first obtaining
all permits and/or licenses otherwise required pursuant to all applicable state
and/or federal laws and/or other provisions of this development code (and
thereafter maintaining each such permit and/or license so as to remain legally
valid at all times) is hereby declared unlawful and a public nuisance.
   B.   Use Of Occupancy Of Structure: Any structure used or occupied in a
manner not allowed by this development code (either as a matter of right or
through the application of the appropriate land use approval or permit) and/or
which is used or occupied without first obtaining all permits and/or licenses
otherwise required pursuant to all applicable state and/or federal laws and/or
other provisions of the town code (and thereafter maintaining each such permit
and/or license so as to remain legally valid at all times) is hereby declared
unlawful and a public nuisance.
   C.   Property Not In Compliance With A Condition Of Land Use Approval
Declared Public Nuisance: Any property not in compliance with an applicable
condition of approval imposed upon any land use approval, authorization,
permit, or variance is hereby declared to be unlawful and a public nuisance.
(Ord. 251, 11-18-2014)
9.82.060: UNLAWFUL TO REFUSE OR FAIL TO COMPLY WITH A CONDITION OF LAND USE
APPROVAL:
   A.   It is unlawful for the owner, the owner's agent or representative, or
other person in whose favor or for whose benefit, a land use approval of any
kind has been granted for the parcel of real property at issue, to refuse or to
fail to comply with the conditions of approval, either individually or
collectively.
   B.   Each and every day, and during any portion of which, any failure or
refusal to comply with the condition or conditions of approval imposed on any
land use approval, authorization, permit, or variance, is committed, continued,
or allowed, is a new and separate offense. (Ord. 251, 11-18-2014)
9.82.070: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Notices, Orders, And Citations: This development code may be enforced
through civil, criminal and/or administrative processes including the issuance
of various notices and orders pertaining to any land use; or to any addition,
alteration, construction, conversion, enlargement, installation, moving,
reconstruction, rehabilitation of any structure; or to any use of any
structure; that is contrary to any provision of this development code as
provided herein. Such notices may include, without limitation, notice of
violation, notice to correct, notice to vacate, stop work orders, infraction
citations, misdemeanor citations, and administrative citations.
   B.   Enforcement Remedies Are Cumulative And Discretionary, Not Exclusive:
All remedies contained in this development code for the handling of violation
or enforcement of the provisions of this development code shall be
discretionary and cumulative, and not exclusive of any other applicable
provisions of the town code or other applicable state law. The town at its sole
discretion and acting through the officials designated in this chapter and in
consultation with town attorney may enforce this development code through the
application of criminal, civil, and administrative remedies as set forth in
this chapter. In the exercise of such discretion in selecting an appropriate
code enforcement remedy, the town shall not be required to institute available
code enforcement remedies in any particular order, or to prefer the application
of one remedy to another. (Ord. 251, 11-18-2014)
9.82.080: CRIMINAL ACTIONS:
   A.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this code, each person
violating, causing, or allowing a violation of any provision of this
development code or any permit or condition of approval granted pursuant
thereto, shall be guilty of an infraction or a misdemeanor.
   B.   Every violation of any provision of this development code, or of any
permit issued pursuant to this development code (including any of the
conditions of approval for such permit) that is prosecuted as an infraction
shall be punishable, upon conviction or upon a plea of nolo contendere
(commonly called no contest), by a base fine as established by the council or
local court of jurisdiction. Any court costs that the court may otherwise be
required to impose pursuant to applicable state law or local ordinance shall be
imposed in addition to the base fine. Notwithstanding the above, a first or
subsequent violation of this development code may be charged and prosecuted as
a misdemeanor.
   C.   A misdemeanor shall be punishable, upon conviction or upon a plea of
nolo contendere (commonly called no contest), by a base fine as established by
the council or local court of jurisdiction, or by imprisonment in the county
jail for a period of not more than six (6) months, or by both such base fine
and imprisonment. Any court costs that the court may otherwise be required to
impose pursuant to applicable state law or local ordinance shall be imposed in
addition to the base fine.
   D.   The conviction and punishment of any person of an offense as described
in this section or the payment of a criminal fine by or on behalf of the person
convicted, shall not relieve that person from the responsibility for
correcting, removing, or abating the violation that resulted in the conviction;
nor prevent the enforced correction, removal or abatement thereof by the town.
The correction, removal, or abatement of a violation begun after the issuance
of a criminal citation or the filing of a criminal complaint shall not be a
defense to the infraction or misdemeanor so charged and, following a conviction
or plea of nolo contendere, shall not be grounds for the dismissal of the
action or the waiver, stay, or reduction of any fine established by town code.
(Ord. 251, 11-18-2014)
9.82.090: CIVIL ACTIONS:
   A.   Injunctive Relief And Abatement: At the request of any person
authorized to enforce this development code, the town may commence proceedings
for the abatement, removal, correction and enjoinment of any act or omission
that constitutes or will constitute a violation of this development code or any
permit or land use approval granted pursuant thereto, and an order requiring
the violator(s) to pay civil penalties and/or abatement costs. Where multiple
violators are involved, they shall be jointly liable for the civil penalties
and/or abatement costs.
   B.   Civil Remedies And Penalties: Any person, whether acting as principal,
agent, employee, owner, lessor, lessee, tenant, occupant, operator, contractor,
or otherwise, who violates any provision of this development code or any permit
or any condition of land use approval granted pursuant thereto, shall be liable
for a civil penalty as established by council per violation for each day or any
portion thereof, that the violation continues.
   C.   Attorney Fees: In any civil action, administrative proceeding, or
special proceeding to abate a public nuisance, whether by seeking injunctive
relief and/or an abatement order, or other order, attorney fees may be
recovered by the prevailing party and shall not exceed the amount of reasonable
attorney fees incurred by the town in that action or proceeding 1 .
   D.   Statute Of Limitation: Any court action or proceeding to attach,
review, set aside, void or annul any decision relating to the adoption or
amendment of the town general plan or any specific plan or any decision of
matters listed in this development code otherwise subject to court review
(other than those listed in sections 65907 and 66499.37 of the state Government
Code and section 21167 of the state Public Resources Code) or concerning any of
the proceedings, acts or determinations taken, done or made prior to such
decision, or to determine the reasonableness, legality, or validity of any
conditions attached thereto, shall not be maintained by any person unless such
action or proceeding is commenced with service of summons effected within
thirty (30) calendar days after the effective date of such decision.
Thereafter, all persons are barred from any such action or proceeding or any
defense of invalidity or unreasonableness of such decision or of such
proceedings, acts or determinations. (Ord. 251, 11-18-2014)
 
Notes
1 1. GOV § 25845.
9.82.100: FILING OF A NOTICE OF LIEN/PENDENCY:
Whenever the town institutes a judicial action or proceeding to enforce this
development code, a notice of lien/pendency of the action or proceeding may be
filed with the county recorder's office. The notice shall be filed at the time
of the commencement of the action or proceeding, and upon recordation of the
notice, consistent with the standards and requirements of the county recorder's
office. The notice shall have the same effect as a notice recorded in
compliance with section 409 of the California Code Of Civil Procedure. (Ord.
251, 11-18-2014)
CHAPTER 9.83
PERMIT AMENDMENTS
SECTION:
9.83.010: Purpose
9.83.020: When Permit Amendments May Be Considered
9.83.030: Types Of Amendments
9.83.040: Procedures For Amendments
9.83.050: Required Findings
9.83.060: Limitation Of Authority
9.83.010: PURPOSE:
Amendments or modifications of the conditions of approval, project design of an
approved project, or the alteration or expansion of an approved use subject to
a permit may be allowed through the approval of a permit amendment in
compliance with this chapter. (Ord. 251, 11-18-2014)
9.83.020: WHEN PERMIT AMENDMENTS MAY BE CONSIDERED:
   A.   Amendments to projects approved in compliance with this chapter may be
made on the following grounds:
      1.   Change of circumstances;
      2.   New information;
      3.   Correction of errors;
      4.   Public health, safety and welfare considerations; or
      5.   Changes in applicable general plan designation or policy or
applicable zoning regulations. (Ord. 251, 11-18-2014)
9.83.030: TYPES OF AMENDMENTS:
The following types of amendments apply to all projects approved in compliance
with this chapter, including development permits and land division approval:
   A.   Minor Amendments: A minor amendment may include changes to project
design, improvements, or conditions of approval, if the amendment does not
affect the overall concept, density or intensity of use of the approved
project, and if it does not involve either a modification of a design
consideration, or an improvement or a significant revision to a condition of
approval which was a matter of controversy during the review and approval of
the original permit, or which was required to mitigate a significant adverse
environmental effect.
   B.   Corrections: A correction is a change which corrects an error or
omission in an approval which is otherwise at variance with the decision of the
review authority or at variance with town ordinances or regulations, and which
correction does not involve either a modification of a design consideration, an
improvement or a condition of approval which was a matter of controversy during
the review and approval of the original permit, or which was required to
mitigate a significant adverse environmental effect.
   C.   Correction And Amendment Of Subdivision Maps: The correction and
amendment of subdivision maps are provided for in section
9.92.080, "Correction And Amendment Of Recorded Maps", of this title.
   D.   Major Amendments: Any change to an approval which does not qualify as a
minor amendment, correction, or correction and amendment of a subdivision map,
as defined in subsections A, B, and C of this section, shall be deemed a major
amendment. (Ord. 251, 11-18-2014)
9.83.040: PROCEDURES FOR AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Initiation: Except as otherwise provided herein, any amendment may be
initiated by the current holder of the approval, the director, the commission,
or the council.
      1.   Initiation By The Director: The director may initiate amendments
involving minor variations and corrections. The director shall send written
notice of the pending action to amend the current permit to the current holder
of the approved permit at least thirty (30) days prior to taking action on the
amendment.
      2.   Initiation Of Corrections And Amendments Of Subdivision Maps: The
procedures and review authority for correction and amendment of subdivision
maps are provided in section
 9.92.080, "Correction And Amendment Of Recorded Maps", of this title.
      3.   Council Initiation: The council, based upon a recommendation from
the commission may initiate an amendment. If the amendment is initiated by the
council, a resolution of intention shall be adopted. Such resolution of
intention shall provide notice to the current holder of the approved permit at
least thirty (30) days prior to an action being taken on the amendment, unless
the public health, safety or welfare requires more immediate action.
      4.   Initiation By Current Holder Of Approved Permit: Permit amendments
initiated by the current holder of an approved permit shall be made on forms
provided by the planning division.
   B.   Review Authority: Except as otherwise provided in this code, the review
authority for a permit amendment shall be as follows:
      1.   Minor Amendments And Corrections: The director shall be the review
authority for minor variations and corrections. No public hearing or notice of
adjacent property owners shall be required.
      2.   Correction And Amendment Of Subdivision Maps: The procedures and
review authority for the correction and amendment of subdivision maps are
provided in section
9.92.080, "Correction And Amendment Of Recorded Maps", of this title.
      3.   Major Amendments: The review authority and processing procedures for
major amendments shall be the same as for the original approval.
      4.   Amendment Initiated By The Council: Amendments initiated by the
council shall be reviewed and final action shall be taken by the body which
initiated the amendment, unless the original approving body was the council, in
which case the council shall take final action.
   C.   Referral To Next Higher Review Authority: The provision of section
9.60.040 of this title authorizing referral to the next succeeding review
authority are applicable to all types of amendments. (Ord. 251, 11-18-2014)
9.83.050: REQUIRED FINDINGS:
Permit amendments of any type shall not be approved unless the review authority
is able to make the findings required for approval of the original permit
application. (Ord. 251, 11-18-2014)
9.83.060: LIMITATION OF AUTHORITY:
The hearing on an application for a permit amendment shall be limited to that
part of the project approval affected by the amendment application, unless the
review authority finds that the amendment proposed should not be considered in
isolation from all or any part of the project approval. (Ord. 251, 11-18-2014)
CHAPTER 9.84
PERMIT REVOCATIONS
SECTION:
9.84.010: Purpose
9.84.020: Permits Which May Be Revoked
9.84.030: Authority
9.84.040: Hearing Procedure
9.84.050: Appeal Procedures
9.84.010: PURPOSE:
To the extent consistent with law, in order to protect the public health,
safety, and welfare, and in order to enforce the provisions of this code, it
may become necessary to revoke a previously authorized approval or approved
permit. The purpose of this chapter is to protect the public health, safety and
welfare, as well as the rights to due process of permit holders within the
town. (Ord. 251, 11-18-2014)
9.84.020: PERMITS WHICH MAY BE REVOKED:
   A.   Any permit granted in compliance with this code may be revoked upon one
or both of the following findings:
      1.   Any term or condition of that permit has not been, or is not being
complied with; or
      2.   The permit has been issued or exercised in a manner which creates a
nuisance, or is otherwise detrimental to the public health, safety, or welfare.
   B.   Such revocation may be initiated by a resolution of intention adopted
by either the commission or the council. Such resolution of intention shall
provide notice to the holder of the permit in noncompliance, violation or
nuisance, reasonable opportunity to correct the noncompliance to the
satisfaction of the town. Such reasonable opportunity for correction may be
provided by scheduling the actual hearing on revocation for a date which will
allow time for such correction. (Ord. 251, 11-18-2014)
9.84.030: AUTHORITY:
Authority to revoke permits or approvals shall be vested with the commission
for permits approved by staff or the commission or vested with the council
where the council was the final review authority in granting the permit or
approval. A public hearing in compliance with
chapter 9.85, "Public Notices And Hearings", of this article 5, shall be
required for revocation of permits or previous approvals. (Ord. 251, 11-18-
2014)
9.84.040: HEARING PROCEDURE:
If a resolution of intention is adopted to initiate the revocation of any
previously authorized approval or approved permit, the commission or council
shall set the matter for a hearing, giving notice of the time, place and review
authority as prescribed in
chapter 9.85, "Public Notices And Hearings", of this article 5. A copy of the
resolution of intention shall be sent to the permittee and the current owner of
record. Upon the conclusion of the hearing, the commission or the council may,
upon making the appropriate findings, either revoke the permit or amend the
permit in lieu of revocation. (Ord. 251, 11-18-2014)
9.84.050: APPEAL PROCEDURES:
Any decision of the commission regarding an action to revoke a permit may be
appealed to the council in compliance with
 chapter 9.81, "Appeals", of this article 5. Any decision of the council to
revoke a permit or to amend a permit shall be final.
   A.   Purpose: Discretionary permits or approvals issued in compliance with
this development code may be revoked or modified in compliance with this
chapter.
   B.   Procedures: This section provides procedures for securing revocation or
punitive modification of previously approved permits or approvals.
   C.   Revocations: The town's action to revoke a permit or approval shall
have the effect of terminating the permit and denying the privileges granted by
the original approval.
   D.   Modifications: Town modification of a permit or approval instead of
revocation may include any operational aspect of the project, including
buffers, duration of the permit or entitlement, hours of operation, landscaping
and maintenance, lighting, parking, performance guarantees, property
maintenance, signs, surfacing, traffic circulation, or any other aspect/
condition determined to be reasonable and necessary to ensure that the permit
is operated in a manner consistent with the original finding for approval.
   E.   Hearings And Notice:
      1.   The appropriate review authority shall hold a public hearing to
revoke or modify a permit or approval granted in compliance with the provisions
of this development code.
      2.   At least ten (10) days before the public hearing, notice shall be
"delivered" in writing to the applicant for the permit or approval being
considered for revocation, and/or owner of the property for which the permit
was granted.
      3.   Notice shall be deemed "delivered" two (2) days after being mailed,
certified and first class, through the United States postal service, postage
paid, to the owner as shown on the county's current equalized assessment roll
and to the project applicant, if not the owner of the subject property.
   F.   Action By Reviewing Authority:
      1.   Permits: A conditional use permit, site plan and design review, or
other town planning permit or approval (except a variance, see subsection F2 of
this section) may be revoked or modified by the reviewing authority (e.g.,
director, commission, or council) that originally approved the permit, if the
reviewing authority first makes any one of the following findings:
         a.   Circumstances under which the permit or approval was granted have
been changed by the applicant to an extent that one or more of the findings
that justified the original approval can no longer be made, and the public
health, safety, and welfare require the revocation or modification;
         b.   The permit or other approval was granted, in whole or in part, on
the basis of a misrepresentation or omission of a material statement in the
application, or in the applicant's testimony presented during the public
hearing, for the permit or approval;
         c.   One or more of the conditions of the original permit or approval
have not been substantially fulfilled or have been violated;
         d.   The approved use or structure has ceased to exist or has been
suspended for at least twelve (12) months;
         e.   An improvement authorized in compliance with the permit is in
violation of any applicable code, law, ordinance, regulation, or statute; or
         f.   The improvement allowed by the permit has become detrimental to
the public health, safety, or welfare or the manner of operation constitutes or
is creating a nuisance.
      2.   Variances: A variance may be revoked or modified by the review
authority which originally approved the variance, if the review authority first
makes any one of the following findings, in addition to any one of the findings
in subsection F1 of this section:
         a.   Circumstances under which the original approval was granted have
been changed by the applicant to a degree that one or more of the findings
contained in the original approval can no longer be made in a positive manner,
and the grantee has not substantially exercised the rights granted by the
variance; or
         b.   One or more of the conditions of the variance have not been met,
or have been violated, and the grantee has not substantially exercised the
rights granted by the variance.
   G.   Amortization: If a revocation is ordered, the commission may provide
for a reasonable period of time to amortize any lawful existing uses on the
site. Extensions of this time period may be granted for good cause shown on an
application to the applicable review authority by any affected person.
   H.   Action Is Appealable: The revocation or modification of a permit or
variance is appealable in compliance with
chapter 9.81, "Appeals", of this article 5. (Ord. 251, 11-18-2014)
CHAPTER 9.85
PUBLIC NOTICES AND HEARINGS
SECTION:
9.85.010: Purpose
9.85.020: Notice Of Hearing
9.85.030: Hearing Procedure
9.85.040: Recommendation By Commission
9.85.010: PURPOSE:
This chapter provides procedures for public hearings required by this
development code and state law. When a public hearing is required, advance
notice of the hearing shall be given, and the hearing shall be conducted, in
compliance with this chapter. (Ord. 251, 11-18-2014)
9.85.020: NOTICE OF HEARING:
When this development code requires a public hearing, the public shall be
provided notice of the hearing in compliance with Government Code sections
65090 through 65094, and Public Resources Code 21000 et seq., and as required
by this chapter.
   A.   Content Of Notice: Notice of a public hearing shall include all of the
following information, as applicable:
      1.   Hearing Information: The date, time, and place of the hearing and
the name of the review authority; a brief description of the public's right to
appear and be heard, and where an interested person may obtain additional
information.
      2.   Project Information: The name of the applicant, the town's file
number assigned to the application; a general explanation of the matter to be
considered; and a general description, in text and/or by diagram, of the
location of the property that is the subject of the hearing.
      3.   Statement On Environmental Document: If a proposed negative
declaration or final environmental impact report has been prepared for the
project in compliance with the California environmental quality act (CEQA), the
hearing notice shall include a statement that the review authority will also
consider approval of the proposed negative declaration or certification of the
final environmental impact report.
   B.   Notification Procedures:
      1.   Published Notice: For general plan amendments and amendments to this
development code not affecting the permitted uses or intensity of uses of real
property, notice of public hearing shall be provided in at least one newspaper
of general circulation within the town at least ten (10) days prior to the
hearing. If there is no such newspaper of general circulation, the notice shall
be posted at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing in at least three (3)
public places within the town. If said amendment(s) affects permitted uses or
intensity of uses of real property, the potentially affected property owners
shall be provided notice as required by subsection B2d of this section.
      2.   Mailed Notice: For all other public hearings required by this code,
notice shall be given in all of the following ways:
         a.   Notice of the hearing shall be mailed or delivered at least ten
(10) days prior to the hearing to the owner of the subject real property as
shown on the latest equalized assessment roll. Instead of using the assessment
roll, the local agency may use records of the county assessor or tax collector
if those records contain more recent information than the information contained
on the assessment roll. Notices shall also be mailed to the owner's authorized
agent, if any, and to the project applicant.
         b.   When the subdivision map act (division 2 [commencing with section
66410]) requires notice of a public hearing to be given, notice shall also be
given to any owner of a mineral right pertaining to the subject real property
who has recorded a notice of intent to preserve the mineral right pursuant to
section 883.230 of the Civil Code.
         c.   Notice of the hearing shall be mailed or delivered at least ten
(10) days prior to the hearing to each local agency expected to provide water,
sewage, streets, roads, schools, or other essential facilities or services to
the project, whose ability to provide those facilities and services may be
significantly affected.
         d.   Notice of the hearing shall be mailed or delivered at least ten
(10) days prior to the hearing to all owners of real property as shown on the
latest equalized assessment roll as follows:
            (1)   If the subject property is less than five (5) acres, notice
shall be mailed to all property owners within three hundred feet (300') of the
real property that is the subject of the hearing.
            (2)   If the subject property is five (5) acres or more but less
than twenty (20) acres, notice shall be mailed to all property owners within
five hundred feet (500') of the real property that is subject to the hearing.
            (3)   If the subject property is twenty (20) acres or more, notice
shall be mailed to all property owners within one thousand feet (1,000') of the
real property that is the subject of the hearing.
         e.   In lieu of using the assessment roll, the local agency may use
records of the county assessor or tax collector which contain more recent
information than the assessment roll. If the number of owners to whom notice
would be mailed or delivered pursuant to this subsection or subsection B1 of
this section is greater than one thousand (1,000), a local agency, in lieu of
mailed or delivered notice, may provide notice by placing a display
advertisement of at least one-eighth (1/8) page in at least one newspaper of
general circulation within the local agency in which the proceeding is
conducted at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing.
         f.   If the notice is mailed or delivered pursuant to subsection B2d
of this section, the notice shall also either be:
            (1)   Published in at least one newspaper of general circulation
within the local agency which is conducting the proceeding at least ten (10)
days prior to the hearing.
            (2)   Posted at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing in at
least three (3) public places within the boundaries of the local agency,
including one public place in the area directly affected by the proceeding.
      3.   Request For Notification:
         a.   When a provision of this title requires notice of a public
hearing to be given pursuant to Government Code section 65090 or 65091, the
notice shall also be mailed or delivered at least ten (10) days prior to the
hearing to any person who has filed a written request for a notice with either
the clerk of the governing body or with any other person designated by the
governing body to receive these requests. The town may charge a fee which is
reasonably related to the costs of providing this service.
         b.   Any request for notification shall be renewed annually.
         c.   As used in this chapter, "person" includes a California Native
American tribe that is on the contact list maintained by the Native American
heritage commission.
      4.   Other Manner Of Notice: In addition to the notice required by this
section, the town may give notice of the hearing in any other manner it deems
necessary or desirable. (Ord. 251, 11-18-2014)
9.85.030: HEARING PROCEDURE:
   A.   Time And Place Of Hearing: A hearing shall be held at the date, time,
and place for which notice was given.
   B.   Continued Hearing: Any hearing may be continued from time to time
without further notice; provided, the chairperson of the hearing body announces
the date, time, and place to which the hearing will be continued before the
adjournment or recess of the hearing.
   C.   Deferral Of Final Decision: The review authority may announce a
tentative decision, and defer their action on a final decision until
appropriate findings and/or conditions of approval have been prepared. (Ord.
251, 11-18-2014)
9.85.040: RECOMMENDATION BY COMMISSION:
After a public hearing on a proposed legislative act (e.g., amendment to the
general plan, this development code, a development agreement, a specific plan,
a planned development, or an action referred to the council by the commission)
the recommendation and findings of the commission shall be forwarded to the
council. A copy of the recommendation shall be mailed to the applicant at the
address shown on the application. (Ord. 251, 11-18-2014)
CHAPTER 9.86
TIME LIMITATIONS AND TIME EXTENSIONS
SECTION:
9.86.010: Purpose
9.86.020: Effective Dates Of Permits
9.86.030: Time Limits
9.86.040: Time Extensions
9.86.010: PURPOSE:
This chapter provides requirements for the implementation or "exercising" of
the permits and authorizations required by this development code, including
time limits and procedures for granting extensions of time. (Ord. 251, 11-18-
2014)
9.86.020: EFFECTIVE DATES OF PERMITS:
   A.   Effective Date For Planning Permits And Other Approvals: Except in the
case of an amendment and zone change (
chapter 9.62 of this title) or development agreement (
chapter 9.64 of this title), final action on any planning approval (e.g.,
conditional use permits, site plan and design review, variance, or other
entitlement) shall become effective on the eleventh consecutive calendar day
following the date of application approval, where no appeal of the approval has
been filed in compliance with
 chapter 9.81, "Appeals", of this article 5.
   B.   Town Business Day: If the eleventh day is not a town business day, the
following business day shall be deemed the effective date. (Ord. 251, 11-18-
2014)
9.86.030: TIME LIMITS:
   A.   Time Limits:
      1.   Thirty Six Months: Unless a condition of approval or other provision
of this development code establishes a different time limit, a conditional use
permit, site plan and design review, variance, planned development permit, land
use compliance review, tentative parcel map or tentative tract map not
exercised within thirty six (36) months of the actual date of the decision
granting the permit or authorization shall expire and become void, except where
an extension of time is approved in compliance with section
9.86.040, "Time Extensions", of this chapter.
      2.   Twelve Months: Unless another provision of this development code
establishes a different time limit, special use permit, temporary use permit or
any other land use permit not exercised within twelve (12) months of the actual
date of the decision granting the permit or authorization shall expire and
become void, except where an extension of time is approved in compliance with
section
9.86.040, "Time Extensions", of this chapter.
      3.   Definition Of "Exercised": The permit or authorization shall not be
deemed "exercised" until the permittee has commenced actual construction or
alteration under a valid building permit, or has substantially commenced the
approved activity or allowed use of the site in compliance with the conditions
of approval, in cases where a building permit is not required.
      4.   Run With The Land: After it has been exercised, a planning permit or
authorization shall remain valid and run with the land in compliance with
section
9.80.020, "Permits And Conditions To Run With The Land", of this article 5, as
long as a building permit is active for the project, and after a final building
inspection or certificate of occupancy has been granted.
   B.   Phased Project:
      1.   Projects Other Than Planned Development Permits: If a project (other
than a planned development permit) is to be developed in approved phases, each
subsequent phase shall be exercised within thirty six (36) months from the date
that the previous phase was exercised, unless otherwise specified in the permit
or authorization, or the permit or authorization shall expire and become void,
except where an extension of time is approved in compliance with section
9.86.040, "Time Extensions", of this chapter. If the project also involves the
approval of a tentative map, the phasing shall be consistent with the tentative
map and the permit or authorization shall be exercised before the expiration of
the tentative map, or the permit or authorization shall expire and become void.
      2.   Planned Development Permits: Notwithstanding the above provisions of
this section, a conditionally approved planned development permit for a phased
project shall be subject to a time limitation not to exceed that specified by
the condition of approval for the development plan approval. The applicant,
however, shall either record a tract map or obtain building permits for at
least one phase of the project within three (3) years of the development plan
conditional approval and, as applicable, within each succeeding three (3) year
period. Each three (3) year period shall begin with the last town approved
action that was accomplished (e.g., recordation of a tract map, obtain a
building permit). (Ord. 251, 11-18-2014)
9.86.040: TIME EXTENSIONS:
   A.   Review Authority: Approvals for an extension of time beyond the
original expiration date of any project may only be granted by the original
approving review authority.
   B.   Submittal Requirements:
      1.   Extension of time requests for projects shall be considered only if
filed with the planning division prior to the expiration date for the permit or
approval.
      2.   A subdivider may request an extension for projects subject to the
subdivision map act by written application to the director in accordance with
section
9.91.110, "Tentative Map Expiration And Extensions", of this title, subdivision
regulations.
   C.   Time Limits On Extensions: Other than tentative parcel maps and tract
maps, extensions may not exceed an aggregate total of three (3) years from the
original date of expiration unless otherwise provided by law, unless the review
authority finds that all findings required for the original approval can still
be made and the application is consistent with the general plan, development
code, master plans and specific plans.
   D.   Findings: Requests for extensions shall only be granted if the
following findings can be made:
      1.   The project is consistent with the provisions of the general plan
and this code in effect at the time the extension request is considered.
      2.   There have been no significant changes in the character of the area
within which the project is located that would cause the approved project to
become inconsistent or nonconforming and that the granting of an extension will
not be detrimental to the public health, safety or welfare, or materially
injurious to properties or improvements in the vicinity.
   E.   Action On Extension Of A Project Subject To The Subdivision Map Act:
The expiration date of a tentative map may only be extended in compliance with
the map act section 66452.6.
   F.   Effect Of Expiration: After the expiration of a planning permit or
authorization in compliance with subsection
9.86.030A of this chapter, no further work shall be done on the site until a
new planning permit or authorization and any required building permit or other
town permits are first obtained. (Ord. 251, 11-18-2014)
CHAPTER 9.90
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
9.90.010: Reserved
9.90.020: Purpose
9.90.030: Authority
9.90.040: Applicability
9.90.050: Responsibility For Administration
9.90.060: Advisory Agency
9.90.070: Authority For Subdivision Decisions
9.90.080: Type Of Subdivision Approval Required
9.90.090: Applications Deemed Approved
9.90.100: Exceptions To Subdivision Standards
9.90.110: Appeals
9.90.120: Enforcement Of Subdivision Standards
9.90.010: RESERVED:
(Ord. 242, 9-3-2013)
9.90.020: PURPOSE:
This article 6 constitutes the Yucca Valley subdivision ordinance. These
provisions are intended to supplement, implement, and work with the subdivision
map act, California Government Code section 66410 et seq. (hereafter referred
to as the "map act"). This article 6 is not intended to replace the map act,
and must be used in conjunction with the map act in the preparation of
subdivision applications, and the review, approval, and improvement of proposed
subdivisions. (Ord. 242, 9-3-2013)
9.90.030: AUTHORITY:
This article 6 is adopted in compliance with the map act as a "local
ordinance", as the term is used in the map act. All provisions of the map act
and future amendments to the map act not incorporated into this article 6
shall, nevertheless, apply to all subdivision maps and proceedings under this
article 6. (Ord. 242, 9-3-2013)
9.90.040: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Subdivision Approval Required: Each subdivision of land within the town
shall be authorized through the approval of a map or other entitlement in
compliance with this article 6.
   B.   Conflicts With Map Act: In the event of any conflicts between the
provisions of this article 6 and the map act, the map act shall control.
   C.   Compliance With Other Regulations Required: The approval or conditional
approval of a subdivision map shall not authorize an exception or deviation
from any zoning regulation in this development code, or as an approval to
proceed with any development in violation of other applicable provisions of
this code or other applicable ordinances or regulations of the town. (Ord. 242,
9-3-2013)
9.90.050: RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION:
The director and town engineer are authorized and directed to administer and
enforce the provisions of this article 6 and applicable provisions of the map
act for subdivisions within the town, except as otherwise provided by this
article 6. (Ord. 242, 9-3-2013)
9.90.060: ADVISORY AGENCY:
   A.   Advisory Agency Established: The advisory agency for subdivision review
as used in the map act shall be the department.
   B.   Authority And Duties: The advisory agency shall perform the following
duties, and as further detailed in section
9.90.070, "Authority For Subdivision Decisions", of this chapter:
      1.   Approve, conditionally approve, or disapprove tentative maps;
      2.   Recommend to the commission for review and action on those projects
being referred to the commission;
      3.   Recommend to the council the approval, conditional approval, or
disapproval of requests for exceptions to the town's design and improvement
standards, in compliance with section
 9.90.100, "Exceptions To Subdivision Standards", of this chapter;
      4.   Recommend modifications of the requirements of this article 6;
      5.   Review and make recommendations concerning proposed subdivisions
within the incorporated boundaries in compliance with the map act when the
advisory agency has elected to do so; and
      6.   Perform additional duties and exercise additional authorities as
specified by law and by this article 6. (Ord. 242, 9-3-2013)
9.90.070: AUTHORITY FOR SUBDIVISION DECISIONS:
Table 6-1, "Subdivision Review Authority", of this section identifies the town
official or authority responsible for reviewing and making decisions on each
type of subdivision application and other decisions required by this article 6.
   TABLE 6-1
   SUBDIVISION REVIEW AUTHORITY
                 Applicable   Town              Planning   Town
Type Of Decision Development  Engineer Director Commission Council
                 Code Section
                           Applicable   Town                Planning   Town
Type Of Decision           Development  Engineer  Director  Commission Council
                           Code Section
Tentative or vesting tract 9.91.040              Recommend Decision   Appeal
or parcel map
Parcel map                 9.92         Recommend Recommend           Decision
Final map                  9.92         Recommend Recommend           Decision
Certificate of subdivision 9.93.020     Recommend Decision  Appeal     Appeal
compliance
Composite development plan 9.92.070     Recommend Decision  Appeal     Appeal
Official maps              9.93.070              Recommend Recommend  Decision
Lot line adjustment        9.93.030     Recommend Decision  Appeal     Appeal
Lot mergers                9.93.040     Recommend Decision  Appeal     Appeal
Reversion to acreage       9.93.050              Recommend Recommend  Decision
 
(Ord. 242, 9-3-2013)
9.90.080: TYPE OF SUBDIVISION APPROVAL REQUIRED:
Any subdivision of an existing parcel into two (2) or more parcels shall
require approval by the town in compliance with this article 6. In general, the
procedure for subdivision first requires the approval of a tentative map, and
then the approval of a parcel map (for a subdivision that results in 4 or fewer
parcels) or a final map (for a subdivision that results in 5 or more parcels)
to complete the subdivision process. The town's review of a tentative map
evaluates the compliance of the proposed subdivision with town standards, and
the appropriateness of the proposed subdivision design. Parcel and final maps
are precise surveying documents that detail the location and dimensions of all
parcel boundaries in an approved subdivision and, after approval, are recorded
in the office of the county recorder.
   A.   Tentative Map Requirements: The filing and approval of a tentative map
is required for:
      1.   A subdivision or resubdivision of four (4) or fewer parcels, as
authorized by map act section 66426; and
      2.   A subdivision or resubdivision of five (5) or more parcels, and all
other types of subdivisions required to have tentative map approval by map act
section 66426.
   B.   Parcel And Final Map Requirements: A parcel or final map (see
chapter 9.92 of this article 6) shall be required as follows:
      1.   Parcel Map: The filing and approval of a parcel map pursuant to
chapter 9.91, "Tentative Map Filing And Procedures", of this article 6 shall be
required for a subdivision creating four (4) or fewer parcels, with or without
a designated remainder in compliance with map act article 2, chapter 1, except
for the following subdivisions:
         a.   Public Agency Or Utility Conveyances: Any conveyance of land,
including a fee interest, an easement, or a license, to a governmental agency,
public entity, public utility or a subsidiary of a public utility for rights of
way, unless the director determines based on substantial evidence that public
policy necessitates a parcel map, in an individual case, in compliance with map
act section 66428;
         b.   Rail Right Of Way Leases: Subdivisions of a portion of the
operating right of way of a railroad corporation as defined by section 230 of
the California Public Utilities Code, which are created by short term leases
(terminable by either party on not more than 30 days' notice in writing); or
         c.   Waived Parcel Map: A subdivision that has been granted a waiver
of parcel map requirements in compliance with section 9.92.020, "Waiver Of
Parcel Map", of this article 6.
      2.   Final Map: The filing and approval of a final map pursuant to
chapter 9.91, "Tentative Map Filing And Procedures", of this article 6, shall
be required for a subdivision of five (5) or more parcels, except a subdivision
that is otherwise required to have a parcel map by map act section 66426.
   C.   Exemptions From Subdivision Approval Requirements: The types of
subdivisions identified by map act sections 66411, 66412, 66412.1, 66412.2, and
66426.5, or other applicable map act provision as not being subject to the
requirements of the map act, and/or not being considered to be divisions of
land for the purposes of the map act, shall be exempt from the subdivision
approval requirements of this article 6. (Ord. 242, 9-3-2013)
9.90.090: APPLICATIONS DEEMED APPROVED:
A subdivision application deemed approved in compliance with Government Code
sections 65956 or 66452.1, 66452.2 or 66452.4, shall be subject to all
applicable provisions of this development code, and any conditions imposed by
the review authority, which shall be satisfied by the subdivider before a
building permit is issued. A parcel or final map filed for recordation after
its tentative map is deemed approved shall remain subject to all the mandatory
requirements of this article 6 and the map act, including map act sections
66473, 66473.5, and 66474. (Ord. 242, 9-3-2013)
9.90.100: EXCEPTIONS TO SUBDIVISION STANDARDS:
An exception to a provision of
chapter 9.95, "Subdivision Design And Improvement Requirements", of this
article 6 may be requested by a subdivider in compliance with this section. An
exception shall not be used to waive or modify a provision of the map act, or a
provision of this article 6 that is duplicated or paraphrased from the map act.
   A.   Application: An application for an exception shall be submitted on
forms provided by the department together with the required filing fee. The
application shall include a description of each standard and requirement for
which an exception is requested, together with the reasons why the subdivider
believes the exception is justified.
   B.   Filing And Processing: A request for an exception shall be filed and
processed as follows:
      1.   An exception shall be processed and acted upon in the same manner as
the tentative map, concurrently with the tentative map if the exception request
was filed at the same time.
      2.   The approval of an exception shall not constitute approval of the
tentative map and the approval or disapproval of an exception shall not extend
the time limits for the expiration of the map established by section
9.91.110, "Tentative Map Expiration And Extensions", of this article 6.
      3.   An exception request may be filed after the approval of a tentative
map, but shall be considered by the tentative map review authority using the
same procedures as the original tentative map.
   C.   Approval Of Exception Requests: The commission shall have the authority
to approve or disapprove exception requests in compliance with this section.
The commission shall not grant relief from a specified requirement or standard
unless all of the following findings are first made:
      1.   Due to special circumstances or conditions affecting this property,
the strict application of this article 6 would create an unnecessary hardship;
      2.   The exception is consistent with the intent of the requirements of
this article 6 and does not constitute a grant of special privilege;
      3.   The exception would not result in significant increased adverse
environmental impacts compared to the strict application of the requirements of
this article 6;
      4.   The granting of the exception will not be detrimental to the public
health, safety, convenience, and general welfare or injurious to other property
in the territory in which the property is situated; and
      5.   The exception will not affect the consistency of the proposed
subdivision with the general plan, any applicable community plan, or any
applicable specific plan.
   D.   Conditions Of Approval: In granting an exception, the commission shall
secure substantially the same objectives of the regulations for which the
exception is requested and shall impose whatever conditions it deems necessary
to protect the public health, safety, convenience, and general welfare, and to
mitigate any environmental impacts in compliance with California environmental
quality act (CEQA). (Ord. 242, 9-3-2013)
9.90.110: APPEALS:
A decision of the director or commission made in compliance with this article 6
may be appealed in compliance with
chapter 9.81, "Appeals", of this title, and map act section 66452.5. (Ord. 242,
9-3-2013)
9.90.120: ENFORCEMENT OF SUBDIVISION STANDARDS:
   A.   Violations: A person who violates any provision of this article 6 shall
be subject to the penalties specified by map act chapter 7, article 1 and
article 2 and/or, where applicable, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor or
infraction as specified in
chapter 9.82, "Enforcement And Violations", of this title.
   B.   Prohibitions:
      1.   Prohibition On Transfers:
         a.   No person shall sell, lease, or finance any parcel or portion of
a parcel of real property, or commence construction of any building for sale,
lease, or financing on a parcel, except for model homes, or allow occupancy,
for which a parcel or final map is required by this article 6 and the map act,
until a map in full compliance with this article 6 has been filed for record by
the county recorder.
         b.   Conveyance of any portion of a parcel of real property for which
a final or parcel map is required by this article 6 shall not be made by parcel
or block number, initial or other designation, until the map has been filed for
record by the county recorder.
      2.   Prohibition On Issuance Of Permits:
         a.   No officer, council, commission, or department of the town shall
issue any permit or grant any approval necessary to develop any real property
that has been divided, or that has resulted from a division, in violation of
the provisions of this article 6 if it finds or is informed by the director
that development of the real property is contrary to the public health and
safety. Before making a finding that the development of the real property is
contrary to the public health and safety, the director shall conduct a review.
         b.   At the review, the director shall consider all information and
evidence submitted. The decision of the director may be appealed in compliance
with map act section 66452.5 to the commission by any aggrieved person, or by a
town officer, council, or department. The authority to disapprove the permit or
requested approval shall apply whether the applicant was the owner of the real
property at the time of the violation, or whether the applicant, if the current
owner of the real property, was with or without actual or constructive
knowledge of the violation at the time of the violation, at the time of the
acquisition of their interest in the real property. If any town officer,
council, commission, agency, or department issues any permit or grants approval
for the development of real property, it may request a report from the director
and impose any additional conditions as would have been applicable to the
development of the property at the time the current owner of record acquired
the property.
         c.   For parcels created before March 4, 1972, notice of the review
shall be given by registered mail to the owner of the real property as shown on
the latest equalized assessment roll book. The review shall be held not less
than fourteen (14) days nor more than thirty (30) days after receipt by the
owner of the notice of review.
      3.   Statement Of Limitations: This section does not apply to any parcel
of a subdivision offered for sale or lease, contract for sale or lease, or sold
or leased in compliance with or exempt from any law regulating the design and
improvement of subdivisions in effect at the time the subdivision was
established.
   C.   Remedies: If construction activity on property subject to a parcel or
final map is occurring contrary to the map act, a requirement of the map act,
or any other federal, state, or local law, rule, or ordinance, the director may
order the activity stopped by written notice served on any person responsible
for the activity, in addition to the remedies outlined in map act chapter 7,
article 2. The responsible person shall immediately stop the activity until
authorized by the director to proceed. For the purposes of this section,
construction activities include, but are not limited to, grading, earthmoving,
and/or tree removal. (Ord. 242, 9-3-2013)
CHAPTER 9.91
TENTATIVE MAP FILING AND PROCEDURES
SECTION:
9.91.010: Purpose
9.91.020: Tentative Map Preparation, Application Contents
9.91.030: Tentative Map Filing
9.91.040: Staff Report And Recommendation
9.91.050: Tentative Map Public Hearing And Action
9.91.060: Tentative Map Approval Or Denial
9.91.070: Conditions Of Approval
9.91.080: Effective Date Of Tentative Map Approval
9.91.090: Completion Of Subdivision Process
9.91.100: Vesting On Approval Of Vesting Tentative Map
9.91.110: Tentative Map Expiration And Extensions
9.91.120: Amendments To Approved Tentative Maps And Conditions
9.91.010: PURPOSE:
This chapter establishes requirements for the preparation, filing, approval or
disapproval of tentative maps, consistent with the requirements of the map act.
(Ord. 242, 9-3-2013)
9.91.020: TENTATIVE MAP PREPARATION, APPLICATION CONTENTS:
   A.   Submittal Requirements: When a tentative map is required by section
9.90.080, "Type Of Subdivision Approval Required", of this article 6, tentative
map submittal shall include the application forms, all information and other
materials prepared as required by the director, and a tentative map prepared in
the format required by director.
   B.   Filing Of Phased Projects: If the subdivider wishes to file multiple
parcel or final maps for a development project that will be phased, then one of
the following shall first be completed:
      1.   The subdivider, at the time the tentative map is filed, shall inform
the director of the subdivider's intention to file multiple parcel or final
maps on the tentative map; or
      2.   After the filing of the tentative map, the department and the
subdivider concur in the filing of multiple final maps.
      3.   A subdivider filing multiple parcel or final maps shall show the
boundary limits of each phase and designate the sequence of filing for
recordation of each phase to the satisfaction of the director. (Ord. 242, 9-3-
2013)
9.91.030: TENTATIVE MAP FILING:
   A.   General Filing And Processing Requirements: A tentative map application
shall be submitted to the department for processing, and shall be:
      1.   Reviewed for completeness and accuracy;
      2.   Referred to affected agencies;
      3.   Reviewed in compliance with the California environmental quality act
(CEQA) where applicable; and
      4.   Evaluated in compliance with section
9.91.040, "Staff Report And Recommendation", of this chapter.
   B.   Referral To Affected Agencies: The procedure provided by this
subsection is in addition to the procedures in
chapter 9.61, "Application Processing Procedures", of this title.
      1.   Required Referrals: The director shall refer a tentative map
application for review and comment to agencies that will be expected to provide
service to the proposed subdivision, including, as appropriate, San Bernardino
County agencies and departments, cities, special districts, and local agencies,
public utilities, and state agencies.
      2.   Anticipated Type Of Response: The agencies that receive a tentative
map application are expected to respond to the director with an evaluation of
the proposal, a list of items (e.g., hydrology study, title report, traffic
study, etc.) that may need to be filed and considered during the evaluation
phase, and a list of proposed conditions of tentative map approval.
      3.   Time Limits For Referral And Response: As required by map act
sections 66453 through 66455.7, referral shall occur within five (5) days of
the tentative map application being determined to be complete. An agency
wishing to respond to a referral shall provide the director with its
recommendations within fifteen (15) days after receiving the tentative map
application.
   C.   Environmental Review:
      1.   The director, upon receipt of a tentative map application, shall
conduct an environmental analysis, in compliance with the California
environmental quality act.
      2.   If an environmental determination is required, the application for
tentative map approval shall not be considered complete until certification of
an environmental impact report, adoption of a negative declaration, or
determination by the local agency that the project is an exempt project under
the California environmental quality act. (Ord. 242, 9-3-2013)
9.91.040: STAFF REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION:
   A.   Director Shall Prepare Evaluation: The director shall prepare an
evaluation in compliance with Government Code section 66452.3 describing the
conclusions of the tentative map application review.
   B.   Mailing Of Copies Of Evaluation: Copies of the evaluation shall be
mailed to the subdivider (and each tenant of the subject property, in the case
of a residential condominium conversion) at least three (3) days before any
hearing or action on the tentative map by the review authority in compliance
with
 chapter 9.85, "Public Notices And Hearings", of this title.
      1.   Town Department Evaluations And Recommendations: Wherever possible,
the evaluations and recommendations of the town departments shall be presented
to the director.
      2.   Required Action In The Case Of Waste Discharge Violations: The town
engineer shall advise the director as to whether the discharge of waste from
the proposed subdivision into an existing community sewer system will result in
the violation of existing requirements prescribed by the California regional
water quality control board in compliance with Water Code section 13000 et seq.
(Ord. 242, 9-3-2013)
9.91.050: TENTATIVE MAP PUBLIC HEARING AND ACTION:
   A.   Applicable Review Authority: The applicable review authority is set
forth in section
9.90.070, table 6-1 of this article 6.
   B.   Scheduling Of Review Authority's Action: The review authority shall
approve, conditionally approve, or deny a tentative parcel or tract map
application within fifty (50) days from the date of adoption by the lead agency
of a negative declaration, mitigated negative declaration, determination that
the project is exempt from CEQA, or certification of the final environmental
impact report.
   C.   Notice And Public Hearing Required:
      1.   The review authority shall hold a noticed public hearing on a
tentative parcel or tract map.
      2.   Notice of the public hearing shall be given and the hearing shall be
conducted in compliance with Government Code section 66410 et seq., and
chapter 9.85, "Public Notices And Hearings", of this title.
   D.   Review Authority's Action Is Conclusive: In the absence of a timely
filed written appeal in compliance with
chapter 9.81, "Appeals", of this title, the decision of the review authority
shall be final and conclusive. (Ord. 242, 9-3-2013)
9.91.060: TENTATIVE MAP APPROVAL OR DENIAL:
In order to approve or recommend the approval of a tentative map and conditions
of approval, or to disapprove a tentative map, the review authority shall first
make the findings required by this section. In determining whether to approve a
tentative map, the town shall apply only the ordinances, policies, and
standards in effect on the date the director determined that the application
was complete in compliance with section
9.91.030, "Tentative Map Filing", of this chapter, except where the town has
initiated general plan, specific plan, area plan or development code changes,
and provided public notice as required by map act section 66474.2.
   A.   Required Findings For Approval:
      1.   Mandatory Findings: The review authority shall approve a tentative
parcel or tract map only after first making all of the following findings, as
required by Government Code sections 66474 and 66474.6. The findings shall
apply to each proposed parcel as well as the entire subdivision, including any
parcel specified as a designated remainder in compliance with Government Code
section 66424.6.
         a.   The proposed map, subdivision design, and improvements are
consistent with the general plan, any applicable specific plan, and this
article 6;
         b.   The site is physically suitable for the type and proposed density
of development;
         c.   The design of the subdivision and the proposed improvements are
not likely to cause substantial environmental damage or substantially and
avoidably injure fish or wildlife or their habitat;
         d.   The design of the subdivision or type of improvements is not
likely to cause serious public health or safety problems;
         e.   The design of the subdivision or the type of improvements will
not conflict with easements acquired by the public at large for access through
or use of, property within the proposed subdivision.
            (1)   This finding may also be made if the review authority finds
that alternate easements for access or use will be provided, and that they will
be substantially equivalent to ones previously acquired by the public.
            (2)   This finding shall apply only to easements of record, or to
easements established by judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction, and no
authority is hereby granted to the review authority to determine that the
public at large has acquired easements of access through or use of property
within the proposed subdivision.
         f.   The design of the subdivision provides, to the extent feasible,
passive or natural heating and cooling opportunities; and
         g.   The proposed subdivision, its design, density, and type of
development and improvements conforms to the regulations of this development
code and the regulations of any public agency having jurisdiction by law.
         h.   The discharge of waste from the proposed subdivision into an
existing community sewer system will not result in the violation of existing
requirements prescribed by the California regional water quality control board
in compliance with Water Code section 13000 et seq.
      2.   Additional Specific Findings: Additional specific findings shall be
made by the review authority before approval or conditional approval of a
tentative parcel or tract map, as applicable to the application, such as if the
proposed subdivision is a conversion of residential real property into a
condominium, a community apartment project, or a stock cooperative, the review
authority shall first make the additional finding that the proposed subdivision
complies with the requirements of Government Code sections 66427.1(a) and 66452
before approving the proposed subdivision.
      3.   Findings Under An EIR: Notwithstanding the finding required by
subsection A1c of this section, the review authority may approve a tentative
map, or a parcel map for which a tentative map was not required, if an
environmental impact report (EIR) was prepared for the project and a finding is
made in compliance with Public Resources Code section 21081 subdivision (a)
paragraph (3), that specific economic, social, or other considerations make the
mitigation measures or project alternatives specified in the EIR infeasible.
   B.   Supplemental Findings: In addition to the findings specified in
subsection A of this section, the review authority shall not approve a
tentative parcel or tract map unless it can also make the following findings,
when they are applicable to the specific subdivision proposal:
      1.   Construction Of Improvements: In the case of a tentative map for a
subdivision that will require a subsequent parcel map, the construction of
improvements for the subdivision within a specified time after the recordation
of the parcel map is in the interest of the public health and safety, and it is
necessary as a prerequisite to the orderly development of the surrounding area.
      2.   Waiver Of Parcel Map: The findings required by section
9.92.020, "Waiver Of Parcel Map", of this article 6, if waiver of a parcel map
has been requested with the tentative map application.
   C.   Time Limits: The time limits for acting and reporting on tentative
parcel or tract maps and appeals, as specified in this article 6 and by the
act, may be extended by mutual consent of the subdivider and the review
authority.
   D.   Appeals: The subdivider or any interested person adversely affected by
a decision of the review authority with respect to a tentative parcel or tract
map may appeal, in compliance with the applicable appeals procedures specified
in Government Code section 66452.5,
chapter 9.81, "Appeals", of this title, and as follows:
      1.   If the commission is the review authority, then the appeal shall be
to the council which is established as the appeals board;
      2.   If the review authority is not the commission, then the first appeal
shall be to the commission. The commission's decision may be appealed to the
council. (Ord. 242, 9-3-2013)
9.91.070: CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL:
Along with the approval of a tentative map, the review authority may adopt any
conditions of approval deemed necessary to carry out the purposes of this
development code, including conditions regarding the matters described in
subsection A of this section; provided, that all conditions shall be consistent
with the requirements of the map act.
   A.   Dedications And Improvements:
      1.   As a condition of approval of a map of five (5) or more parcels, the
town may require dedications and improvements as necessary to ensure that the
parcels to be created:
         a.   Are provided with adequate public services and utilities,
including any appropriate cable television services, to meet the needs of
future residents or users;
         b.   Are of adequate design in all respects in compliance with this
development code;
         c.   Act to mitigate any potential environmental impacts specified in
the environmental impact report (EIR) or by other means; and
         d.   Provide for proper grading and erosion control, including the
prevention of sedimentation or damage to off site property.
      2.   All improvements shall comply with adopted town standards.
   B.   Access:
      1.   Except as provided below, parcels created by a subdivision of land
shall abut upon a recorded dedicated public right of way of a width as
established by the town's circulation element, or shall be ensured of access to
the town road system by an approved access which connects a parcel(s) to a
maintained public street or state highway.
      2.   Private road easements may be approved for access to each parcel if
it is determined that public street access cannot be provided due to certain
title limitations or topographical conditions.
      3.   Road easements of record established before the effective date of
this article 6 shall be recognized as legal access to each parcel of the
proposed subdivision.
      4.   Existing traveled roads for which a court has determined that a
prescriptive right by users exists for public use shall be recognized as legal
access to each parcel of the proposed subdivision.
   C.   Conditions Modifying Subdivision Design; Time For Compliance: When
modifications in design require a change in the conditions of approval of a
tentative parcel map or tentative tract map, the subdivider shall, at least
thirty (30) days before the submission of a final map, submit the appropriate
number of copies of the tentative map as modified to the director for review
for confirmation by the town engineer. (Ord. 242, 9-3-2013)
9.91.080: EFFECTIVE DATE OF TENTATIVE MAP APPROVAL:
The approval of a tentative map shall become effective for the purposes of
filing a final tract or parcel map, in accordance with
chapter 9.86, "Time Limitations And Time Extensions", of this title. (Ord. 242,
9-3-2013)
9.91.090: COMPLETION OF SUBDIVISION PROCESS:
   A.   Effect Of Approval On Prior Approvals: The approval or conditional
approval by the review authority of any revised or new parcel map or tentative
map shall annul all previous subdivision designs and approvals for the same
site.
   B.   Compliance With Conditions, Improvement Plans: After approval of a
tentative parcel map or tentative tract map in compliance with this article 6,
the subdivider shall proceed to fulfill the conditions of approval within any
time limits specified by the conditions and the expiration of the map and,
where applicable, shall prepare, file, and receive approval of improvement
plans in compliance with
 chapter 9.95, "Subdivision Design And Improvement Requirements", of this
article 6, before constructing any required improvements.
   C.   Parcel Or Final Map Preparation, Filing, And Recordation:
      1.   A parcel map for a subdivision of four (4) or fewer parcels shall be
prepared, filed, processed, and recorded in compliance with
 chapter 9.92, "Parcel Maps And Final Maps", of this article 6, to complete the
subdivision, unless a parcel map has been waived in compliance with section
 9.92.020, "Waiver Of Parcel Map", of this article 6.
      2.   A final map for a subdivision of five (5) or more parcels shall be
prepared, filed, processed, and recorded in compliance with
chapter 9.92, "Parcel Maps And Final Maps", of this article 6, to complete the
subdivision.
      3.   Project phasing and the filing of multiple parcel or final maps
shall be in compliance with this chapter. (Ord. 242, 9-3-2013)
9.91.100: VESTING ON APPROVAL OF VESTING TENTATIVE MAP:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to establish procedures
necessary for the implementation of the provisions of Government Code section
66452 relating to vesting tentative maps, vested parcel maps, or tentative
tract maps.
   B.   Application Filing:
      1.   Whenever a provision of the act or this chapter requires the filing
of a tentative parcel or tract map, a vesting tentative map may instead be
filed.
      2.   A vesting tentative map shall be filed in the same form and have the
same contents, accompanying data and reports and shall be processed in the same
manner as is required of tentative maps in compliance with this chapter, except
as otherwise provided in this section.
      3.   At the time a vesting tentative map is filed it shall have printed
conspicuously on its face the words "Vesting Tentative Map".
      4.   At the time a vesting tentative map is filed a subdivider shall also
supply all of the following information:
         a.   The height, location, and size of all existing and proposed
structures.
         b.   Detailed information on the use(s) of the existing and proposed
structures.
         c.   Architectural plans for tract development or design guidelines
for custom subdivisions.
         d.   Detailed circulation information (existing and proposed). This
information may include area wide traffic data sufficient for the town to
determine future circulation needs.
         e.   Detailed grading plans.
         f.   Flood control information.
         g.   Hazardous materials - level 1 study.
         h.   Road, sewer, stormwater, and water details.
         i.   Soils report.
         j.   Any other studies the director and/or town engineer may require
to thoroughly evaluate the project.
         k.   The director may require the filing and concurrent review of
other related development applications where it is necessary for the review and
implementation of the vesting tentative map.
   C.   Expiration: The approval or conditional approval of a vesting tentative
map shall expire at the end of the same time period, and shall be subject to
the same extensions, established by the act and/or this chapter for the
expiration of approved or conditionally approved tentative maps.
   D.   Vesting On Approval Of Vesting Tentative Map:
      1.   The approval or conditional approval of a vesting tentative map
shall confer a vested right to proceed with development in compliance with
Government Code section 66474.2.
      2.   However, if Government Code section 66474.2 is repealed, the
approval or conditional approval of a vesting tentative map shall be deemed to
have conferred a vested right to proceed with development in substantial
compliance with the ordinances, policies, and standards in effect at the time
the vesting tentative map was approved or conditionally approved.
      3.   Notwithstanding subsection D1 of this section, the review authority
may condition or deny a permit, approval, extension, entitlement, or require an
amendment to the map if it first determines any of the following:
         a.   A failure to do so would place the residents of the subdivision
or the immediate community, or both, in a condition dangerous to their health
or safety, or both; or
         b.   The condition or denial is required in order to comply with state
or federal law.
      4.   The review authority may alter any condition(s) of a vesting
tentative map through an amendment in compliance with section
9.91.120, "Amendments To Approved Tentative Maps And Conditions", of this
chapter in order to protect against conditions dangerous to public health and
safety or to comply with state or federal law.
   E.   Expiration Of Vested Rights:
      1.   The vested rights referred to in this section shall expire if a
final map is not approved before the expiration of the vesting tentative map,
as provided in the act.
      2.   If the final map is approved, the vested rights shall last for the
following periods of time:
         a.   An initial time period of twenty four (24) months.
         b.   A subdivider may apply for a twelve (12) month extension thirty
(30) days before expiration in compliance with subsection C, "Expiration", of
this section.
         c.   If the extension is denied, the subdivider may appeal that denial
within ten (10) calendar days after the denial, in compliance with
chapter 9.81, "Appeals", of this title. (Ord. 242, 9-3-2013)
9.91.110: TENTATIVE MAP EXPIRATION AND EXTENSIONS:
   A.   Valid Time Frame: An approved tentative parcel or tract map is valid
for twenty four (24) months after its effective date, except as otherwise
provided by Government Code section 66452.6, which, under specified
circumstances, allows for a tentative map to be deemed valid for thirty six
(36) months unless otherwise extended in accordance with the provisions of this
article 6 and the act.
   B.   Expiration Of An Approved Map:
      1.   Expiration of an approved tentative parcel or tract map or vesting
tentative map shall terminate all proceedings.
      2.   The application shall not be reactivated unless a new tentative
parcel or tract map application is filed in compliance with this article 6.
   C.   Filing Of Extension Request:
      1.   The time limits for acting on maps and associated appeals, as
specified in this article 6 and Government Code section 66410 et seq., may be
extended by mutual consent of the subdivider and the applicable review
authority.
      2.   An extension request shall be in writing and shall be filed with the
director not less than thirty (30) days before the date of expiration of the
approval or previous extension, together with the required filing fee in
compliance with the planning fee schedule.
   D.   Approval Of First Extension - Director: The director may grant one 12-
month extension to the initial time limit, only after first finding all of the
following:
      1.   There have been no changes to the provisions of the general plan,
any applicable specific plan, or this development code applicable to the
project since the approval of the tentative parcel or tract map;
      2.   There have been no changes in the character of the site or its
surroundings that affect how the policies of the general plan, any applicable
specific plan, or other standards of this development code apply to the
project; and
      3.   There have been no changes to the capacities of community resources,
including, but not limited to, roads, sewage treatment or disposal facilities,
schools, or water supply so that there is no longer sufficient remaining
capacity to serve the project.
   E.   Additional Extensions - Commission:
      1.   The commission may grant additional extensions to the initial time
limit, only after first making all of the findings specified in subsection D of
this section.
      2.   The aggregate period of time for all extensions shall not exceed the
maximum limits specified in Government Code sections 66452.6 and 66463.5.
   F.   Appeal Of Decision: If the tentative map extension request is denied,
the subdivider may appeal the denial within ten (10) calendar days after the
effective date of the denial of the extension in compliance with
chapter 9.81, "Appeals", of this title.
   G.   Filing Of A Lawsuit:
      1.   If a lawsuit has been filed and is pending in a court of competent
jurisdiction affecting the validity of the approval or conditional approval of
a tentative parcel or tract map, the subdivider may apply to the town within
ten (10) days of the service of the initial petition or complaint upon the town
for a stay of the time in which a tentative parcel or tract map will expire.
      2.   Within forty (40) days after receiving the request, the director
shall stay the map's expiration date until final conclusion of the action, if
the director determines that the action affects the validity of the tentative
parcel or tract map approval. (Ord. 242, 9-3-2013)
9.91.120: AMENDMENTS TO APPROVED TENTATIVE MAPS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Minor Amendments To Approved Tentative Maps - Director: A subdivider
may request amendments to an approved tentative parcel or tract map or its
conditions of approval before recordation of a final map in compliance with
this section. Amendments to a parcel or final map after recordation are subject
to section
9.92.080, "Correction And Amendment Of Recorded Maps", of this article 6.
   B.   Minor Amendments Defined: Minor amendments to a tentative parcel or
tract map that may be requested by a subdivider in compliance with this section
include minor adjustments to the location of proposed parcel lines and
improvements, and reductions in the number of approved parcels (but no increase
in the number of approved parcels), and any changes to the conditions of
approval, consistent with the findings required by subsection G, "Required
Findings For Approval", of this section.
   C.   Amendments Other Than Minor Amendments: All proposed amendments not
covered by this section shall require the filing and processing of a new
tentative parcel or tract map in compliance with this chapter.
   D.   Application For Amendments: The subdivider shall file an application
and filing fee, in compliance with the planning fee schedule, with the
department, using the forms furnished by the director, together with the
following additional information:
      1.   A statement identifying the tentative parcel or tract map number,
the features of the map or particular conditions to be changed and the changes
requested, the reasons why the changes are requested, and any facts that
justify the changes; and
      2.   Any additional information deemed appropriate by the director.
   E.   Processing Of Application: Proposed amendments to a tentative parcel or
tract map or conditions of approval shall be processed using the same
procedures as the original tentative parcel or tract map, except as otherwise
provided by this section.
   F.   Review Authority: The director shall be the review authority for
reviewing and either approving or denying minor amendments to approved
tentative maps.
   G.   Required Findings For Approval: The director may approve amendments to
an approved tentative parcel or tract map or its conditions of approval if the
director first finds all of the following findings to be true, and that all of
the applicable findings for approval required by subsections
9.91.060A and B of this chapter, can still be made:
      1.   No parcels are added, or substantially altered;
      2.   No proposed structure locations are substantially altered;
      3.   The amendments are consistent with the intent and spirit of the
original tentative parcel or tract map approval; and
      4.   There are no resulting violations of this article 6, the act, or
other applicable laws.
   H.   Effect Of Amendments On Time Limits: Approved amendments to a tentative
parcel or tract map or conditions of approval shall not be considered as
approval of a new tentative map, and shall not extend the time limits provided
by section
9.91.110, "Tentative Map Expiration And Extensions", of this chapter, nor
extend any right(s) in compliance with a vesting tentative map.
   I.   Recording Of Amendments: Minor amendments shall be indicated on the
approved map and certified by the director. (Ord. 242, 9-3-2013)
CHAPTER 9.92
PARCEL MAPS AND FINAL MAPS
SECTION:
9.92.010: Purpose
9.92.020: Waiver Of Parcel Map
9.92.030: Final Tract And Parcel Map Form And Content
9.92.040: Filing And Processing Of Final Tract And Parcel Maps
9.92.050: Final Tract Or Parcel Map Approval And Recordation
9.92.060: Supplemental Information Sheets
9.92.070: Composite Development Plans
9.92.080: Correction And Amendment Of Recorded Maps
9.92.010: PURPOSE:
This chapter establishes requirements for the preparation, filing, processing,
approval, conditional approval, or denial, and recordation of final tract and
parcel maps, consistent with the requirements of the act. (Ord. 242, 9-3-2013)
9.92.020: WAIVER OF PARCEL MAP:
Notwithstanding the provisions of this chapter, the town engineer may elect to
waive the requirement for a parcel map subject to the preparation of written
findings and as provided for in the act. (Ord. 242, 9-3-2013)
9.92.030: FINAL TRACT AND PARCEL MAP FORM AND CONTENT:
   A.   Form And Content: The form and content of final tract and parcel maps
shall be as required by the act and this chapter. The map shall be considered
submitted when it is complete and complies with all applicable provisions of
the act, this chapter, and this code.
   B.   Authorized Preparers:
      1.   The final tract or parcel map shall be prepared by, or under the
direction of, a registered civil engineer authorized to practice land surveying
or licensed land surveyor.
      2.   A final tract or parcel map shall be based upon a field survey made
in compliance with the professional land surveyors act and as required by this
chapter.
   C.   Certificates And Acknowledgments:
      1.   Before filing, the certificates and acknowledgments required by the
act and this chapter shall appear on the map and may be combined where
appropriate.
      2.   The certificates and acknowledgments shall appear on the face of the
map unless the town engineer advises the subdivider that the certificates and
acknowledgments are to be made by separate instrument.
      3.   If a certificate or acknowledgment is made by separate instrument,
there shall appear on the map a reference to the separately recorded documents.
   D.   Monuments: The location, number, and type of monuments shall be as
specified in the act and this chapter and shall be in compliance with the
standards prescribed in the California Business And Professions Code section
8771.
   E.   Documentation Required For Town Review And Approval:
      1.   The subdivider shall submit prints of the map to the department for
checking, who will distribute the map to other town departments and agencies
for review.
      2.   The preliminary prints shall be accompanied by documents, plans, and
reports in a form approved by the director, including, but not limited to, all
of the following:
         a.   Improvement Plans: Improvement construction plans as required by
the town engineer.
         b.   Soils Report:
            (1)   A preliminary soils report, based upon test borings and
prepared in compliance with the requirements of the building code, as it may be
amended and as referenced in title 8, "Buildings And Construction", of this
code, shall be required for all tract maps and for those parcel maps which
involve commercial or industrial development.
               (A)   The soils report shall be prepared by a state registered
civil or soils engineer.
               (B)   The requirement of a preliminary soils report may be
waived or reduced in scope by the town engineer if, in the town engineer's
opinion, the soil characteristics in the vicinity of the proposed subdivision
have been established by previous analyses.
            (2)   Parcel maps which propose the construction of single-family
dwellings shall require the preparation of a report which includes the
subsurface soil classification, as well as the results of an expansive index
test.
         c.   Title Report: A title report prepared by a title insurer, with
the title report required to be dated no older than within ninety (90) days of
the filing of the final map.
         d.   Improvement Cost Estimate: An improvement cost estimate, which
shall include all improvements located within public or private rights of way,
common areas, or easements, on site and off site drainage improvements, and
utility trench backfill as provided by the subdivider, except for those utility
facilities to be installed by a utility company under the jurisdiction of the
public utilities commission.
         e.   Grant Of Easements And Rights Of Way:
            (1)   Grant of easements or rights of way required which are not
proposed to be dedicated on the final map.
            (2)   The subdivider shall provide written evidence acceptable to
the town in the form of rights of entry or permanent easements across private
property outside of the subdivision granting access to perform necessary
construction work and allowing the maintenance of facilities, if required.
         f.   Traverse Closure Calculations: Traverse closure calculations for
the boundary blocks, easements, monument lines, parcels, and street
centerlines.
         g.   Hydrology And Hydraulic Calculations: Complete hydrology and
hydraulic calculations, if required by the project's conditions of approval.
         h.   Organization Documents:
            (1)   Any proposed declaration of covenants, conditions, and
restrictions and all other organization documents for the subdivision in a form
prescribed by the Civil Code section 1355.
            (2)   All documents shall be subject to review and approval by the
director and the town attorney.
         i.   Letter Of Certification From Water Agencies: The subdivider shall
submit written certification from the affected water provider that adequate
domestic water facilities are or will be available to serve the proposed
project and that all necessary financial arrangements have been made to ensure
construction of the facilities.
         j.   Other Reports: Any additional calculations, data, reports, or
information required by the town engineer. (Ord. 242, 9-3-2013)
9.92.040: FILING AND PROCESSING OF FINAL TRACT AND PARCEL MAPS:
   A.   Official And Timely Filing Of Map:
      1.   The subdivider shall cause the map to be officially filed with the
town engineer at least twenty (20) days before the expiration of the approved
or conditionally approved tentative map or any approved extension of time
granted in compliance with section
9.91.110, "Tentative Map Expiration And Extensions", of this article 6.
      2.   The map shall not be considered officially filed until the engineer
or surveyor has received notification from the town engineer that all
provisions of the tentative map approval, the act, the town code, this
development code, and applicable town standards have been complied with.
      3.   The filing of the official copy of the map with the town engineer
shall constitute the timely filing of the map.
   B.   Review Of Map:
      1.   Upon filing of the application, the town engineer shall examine it
as to sufficiency of affidavits and acknowledgments, correctness of surveying
data, mathematical data and computations, and other matters which may require
checking to ensure compliance with the provisions of the act, this chapter, and
applicable town standards.
      2.   If the map is found to be in substantial compliance with the
tentative map and is in correct form, the matters shown on the map are
sufficient, and the town engineer is satisfied that all of the conditions of
approval have been met, the town engineer shall endorse approval of the map.
      3.   The town engineer shall combine with the map the agreements,
easements, and securities as required by this chapter.
      4.   The material shall be transmitted to the council for its
consideration of the map.
   C.   Time Limit For Filing Map: If the subdivider fails to file the map with
the town engineer and the required accompanying data with the appropriate town
departments within twenty four (24) months, or other period of time specified
in Government Code section 66452.6 and section
9.91.110, "Tentative Map Expiration And Extensions", of this article 6,
following the effective date of tentative map approval by the review authority,
or within any authorized extension of time, the tentative map approval or
conditional approval shall become void. In this case, a new filing fee shall be
paid, in compliance with the planning fee schedule, and an application for a
new tentative map shall be filed.
      1.   If one hundred twenty (120) days before the submittal of a map, the
subdivider has failed to comply with the tentative map conditions which require
the subdivider to construct or install off site improvements on land in which
neither the subdivider nor the town has sufficient title or interest, including
an easement or license, then at the time the map is filed with the local
agency, to allow the improvements to be made, the subdivider shall enter into
an agreement with the town to pay all costs of the town in acquiring the
property.
      2.   The town shall have one hundred twenty (120) days from the filing of
the map, in compliance with Government Code section 66457, to obtain interest
in the land to allow the improvement(s) to be made by negotiation or
proceedings in compliance with Code Of Civil Procedure title 7 (commencing with
section 1230.010) of part 3, including proceedings for immediate possession of
the property under Code Of Civil Procedure title 7, chapter 6, article 3
(commencing with section 1255.410).
      3.   In the event the town fails to meet the one hundred twenty (120) day
time limitation, the condition for construction of off site improvements shall
be conclusively deemed to be waived.
      4.   Before approval of the map, the town may require the subdivider to
enter into an agreement to complete the improvements, in compliance with
section
9.95.040, "Site Preparation And Grading For Subdivision Construction", of this
article 6, at the time the town acquires an interest in the land which will
allow the improvements to be made.
      5.   "Off site improvements", as used in this subsection, do not include
improvements which are necessary to ensure replacement or construction of
housing for persons and families of low or moderate income, as defined in
Health And Safety Code section 50093. (Ord. 242, 9-3-2013)
9.92.050: FINAL TRACT OR PARCEL MAP APPROVAL AND RECORDATION:
After determining that the map is in compliance with section
9.92.030, "Final Tract And Parcel Map Form And Content", of this chapter, and
is technically correct, the town engineer shall execute the town engineer's
certificate on the map in compliance with Government Code section 66442, and
forward the map to the town clerk for council action in the following manner:
   A.   Applicable Review Authority: The applicable review authority is set
forth in section
 9.90.070, table 6-1 of this article 6.
   B.   Review And Approval By The Review Authority:
      1.   Timing Of Review Authority's Review: The review authority shall
approve or deny the map after it receives the map from the town engineer or, in
the case of the council, at its regular meeting after the meeting at which it
receives the map, unless that time limit is extended with the mutual consent of
the director and the subdivider.
      2.   Criteria For Approval:
         a.   The review authority shall approve the map if it conforms to all
of the requirements of the act, all provisions of this development code that
were applicable at the time that the tentative map was approved, and is in
substantial compliance with the approved tentative map.
         b.   If the map does not conform, the review authority shall not
approve the map.
         c.   Where a map does not include any offers for dedication or
improvement, the director shall review the map(s) and shall approve each map if
the map conforms to the applicable requirements of the act and this chapter. If
the map(s) does not conform, it shall not be approved.
      3.   Applicable Ordinances, Policies, And Standards: In determining
whether to approve or deny a map, the review authority shall apply only those
ordinances, policies, and standards in effect on the date the proposal for the
subdivision was accepted as complete, in compliance with Government Code
section 66474.2.
      4.   Action Not To Approve A Final Tract Or Parcel Map:
         a.   If a map is not approved due to its failure to meet any of the
requirements imposed by the act or this chapter, the denial shall be
accompanied by findings identifying the requirements which have not been met or
performed.
         b.   Approval of a map shall not be withheld when the failure of the
map to comply is the result of a technical and inadvertent error which, in the
determination of the council or, in the case of a map not involving any offers
of dedication or improvement, the director, does not materially affect the
validity of the map.
   C.   Map With Dedications:
      1.   If a dedication or offer of dedication is required on the map, the
council may accept, subject to improvement or accept for dedication but not
into town maintained roadways and any other offers of dedications and
maintained systems, or reject, on behalf of the public, of any real property
offered for dedication to the public in compliance with the terms of the offer
of dedication, at the same time as it takes action to approve the map.
      2.   If the council rejects the offer of dedication, the offer shall
remain open and may be accepted by the council at a later date in compliance
with Government Code section 66477.2.
      3.   Any termination of an offer of dedication shall be processed in
compliance with Government Code section 66477.2 using the same procedures as
specified by Streets And Highways Code part 3 of division 9.
   D.   Map With Incomplete Improvements: If improvements required by this
development code, conditions of approval, or other applicable laws have not
been completed at the time of approval of the map, the review authority shall
require the subdivider to enter into an agreement with the town as specified in
Government Code section 66462, and section 9.96.040, "Improvement Agreements,
Lien Agreements, And Securities", of this article 6, as a condition precedent
to the approval of the map.
   E.   Recording Of Final Tract And Parcel Maps:
      1.   After action by the review authority, as applicable, to approve the
map, and after the required signatures and seals have been affixed, the town
clerk shall transmit the map to the title company.
      2.   The title company shall obtain signatures at the county tax
collector and deliver to county recorder for recordation. (Ord. 242, 9-3-2013)
9.92.060: SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION SHEETS:
In addition to the information required by this chapter to be included in all
final tract and parcel maps, additional information may be required to be
submitted and recorded simultaneously with a final or parcel map as required by
this section.
   A.   Preparation And Form:
      1.   The additional information required by this section shall be
presented in the form of an additional map sheet(s), unless the director
determines that the type of information required would be more clearly and
understandably presented in the form of a report or other document(s).
      2.   The additional map sheet(s) shall be prepared in the same manner and
in substantially the same form as required for final tract and parcel maps by
section
9.92.030, "Final Tract And Parcel Map Form And Content", of this chapter.
   B.   Content Of Information Sheets: Supplemental information sheets shall
contain the following statements and information:
      1.   Title: A title, including the number assigned to the accompanying
final or parcel map by the director, the words "Supplemental Information
Sheet";
      2.   Explanatory Statement: A statement following the title that the
supplemental information sheet is recorded along with the subject final or
parcel map, and that the additional information being recorded with the final
or parcel map is for informational purposes, describing conditions as of the
date of filing, and is not intended to affect record title interest;
      3.   Location Map: A location map, at a scale not to exceed one inch
equals one thousand two hundred feet (1" = 1,200'). The map shall indicate the
location of the subdivision within the town;
      4.   Areas Subject To Flooding: Identification of all lands within the
subdivision subject to periodic inundation by water;
      5.   Soils Or Geologic Hazards Reports: When a soils report or geological
hazard report has been prepared, the existence of the report shall be noted on
the information sheet, together with the date of the report and the name of the
engineer making the report; and
      6.   Information Required By Conditions Of Approval: Any information
required by the review authority (e.g., areas subject to earthquakes and other
similar environmental constraints) to be included on the supplemental
information sheet(s) because of its importance to potential successor(s) in
interest to the property, including any other easements or dedications. (Ord.
242, 9-3-2013)
9.92.070: COMPOSITE DEVELOPMENT PLANS:
In addition to the information required to be included in a parcel or final map
(section
9.91.030, "Tentative Map Filing", of this article 6), a composite development
plan may be required to be submitted and recorded as follows, as provided by
map act section 66434.2 to provide additional and more detailed information:
   A.   Applicability: The director may require the filing of a composite
development plan at the time a parcel or final map is accepted for recordation.
The composite development plan shall be filed with the department concurrent
with the recordation of the final or parcel map.
   B.   Content: A composite development plan shall be prepared and shall
include the information required by the department handout on composite
development plans, as required by the composite development plan standards
established by the town engineer and adopted by the council, and as required by
the conditions of approval.
   C.   Filing And Review: A composite development plan shall be filed as
follows:
      1.   Filing Advance Copy: At least three (3) weeks before the recordation
of the parcel or final map, the composite development plan shall be submitted
for coordination of review to the town engineer.
      2.   Filing Official Copy Of Composite Development Plan: Concurrent with
the filing for recordation of the parcel or final map the composite development
plan, as approved by the director and town engineer in compliance with this
section, shall be filed with the building and safety division.
   D.   Amendments To Plan:
      1.   Should an error be made on the parcel or final map which affects the
composite development plan approved in compliance with this section, the parcel
or final map and the composite development plan may be amended as approved by
the director. A revision to an approved action application is required for all
other changes to a composite development plan.
      2.   The director is authorized to approve amended composite development
plans when they do not adversely impact the conditions of other departments and
the amendment is in substantial compliance with the conditions of approval of
the tentative or parcel map.
      3.   Any request to modify or deviate from the standards that are shown
on a composite development plan shall be made in compliance with the provisions
for variances, except as otherwise provided by this section. (Ord. 242, 9-3-
2013)
9.92.080: CORRECTION AND AMENDMENT OF RECORDED MAPS:
A recorded final tract or parcel map (referred to as a map) may be amended by
the town engineer to correct errors in the recorded map or to change
characteristics of the approved subdivision in compliance with map act chapter
3, article 7.
   A.   Type Of Corrections Allowed In Compliance With Government Code Section
66469:
      1.   Filing Of A Certificate Of Correction Or An Amending Map: In the
event that errors in a map are discovered after recordation, or that other
corrections are necessary, the corrections may be accomplished by either the
filing of a certificate of correction or an amending map, in compliance with
Government Code chapter 3, article 7.
      2.   Error Defined: For the purposes of this section, "errors" include
errors in course or distance (but not changes in courses or distances from
which an error is not ascertainable from the map), omission of any course or
distance, errors in legal descriptions, or any other map error or omission as
approved by the town engineer that does not affect any property right,
including, but not limited to, acreage, parcel numbers, street names, and
identification of adjacent record maps.
      3.   Other Corrections: Other corrections may include indicating
monuments set by engineers or surveyors other than the one that was responsible
for setting monuments, or showing the proper character or location of any
monument that was incorrectly shown, or that has been changed.
      4.   Review Authority: The town engineer shall be the review authority
for reviewing and either approving or denying corrections to and amendments of
recorded maps in compliance with Government Code section 66469.
      5.   Application And Town Engineer's Review Process:
         a.   An application to amend a recorded map in compliance with
Government Code section 66469 shall be filed with the town engineer.
         b.   The town engineer shall determine if the changes requested may be
approved with a certificate of correction or an amending map.
         c.   The town engineer may request additional information based upon
that determination and shall approve the certificate of correction or the
amending map if all of the required findings specified in subsection A6,
"Required Findings", of this section can be made.
      6.   Required Findings: A map may be amended only if the town engineer
first finds all of the following to be true:
         a.   The change(s) requested only involves a minor map annotation
correction(s);
         b.   The amendment(s) does not impose any additional burden on the fee
owner(s) of the real property;
         c.   The amendment(s) does not alter any interest, right, or title in
the real property reflected on the map; and
         d.   The map, as amended, does not conflict with Government Code
section 66474.
   B.   Type Of Corrections Allowed In Compliance With Government Code Section
66472.1: In the event that there are changes in circumstances which make any or
all of the conditions of a recorded map no longer appropriate or necessary, the
following procedures shall be followed to amend the map:
      1.   Application And Town's Review Process:
         a.   An application to amend a recorded map in compliance with
Government Code section 66472.1 shall be filed with the town engineer.
         b.   Once approved by the town engineer, the application shall be sent
to the council for approval of either a certificate of correction or an
amending map.
         c.   The council shall approve the application if all of the required
findings specified in subsection B3, "Required Findings", of this section can
be made.
      2.   Review Authority: The council shall be the review authority for
reviewing and either approving or denying corrections to and amendments of
recorded maps in compliance with Government Code section 66472.1.
      3.   Required Findings: A map may be amended only if the council first
finds all of the following to be true:
         a.   There is a change(s) in circumstances that make any or all of the
conditions of the map no longer appropriate or necessary;
         b.   The amendment(s) does not impose any additional burden on the fee
owner(s) of the real property;
         c.   The amendment(s) does not alter any interest, right, or title in
the real property reflected on the map; and
         d.   The map, as amended, does not conflict with Government Code
section 66474.
   C.   Recordation: After approval, the certificate of correction or amending
map shall be submitted to the county recorder for recordation.
   D.   Amendment Of An Approved Subdivision: In the event that a subdivider
wishes to amend (e.g., change or modify) the characteristics of an approved
subdivision (e.g., a recorded final tract or parcel map), including, but not
limited to, the number or configuration of parcels, location of streets or
easements, or the nature of required improvements, the construction of which
has been deferred through the approval of an agreement in compliance with
section
9.96.040, "Improvement Agreements, Lien Agreements, And Securities", of this
article 6, the subdivider shall file a new tentative, final, or parcel map in
compliance with this article 6 or comply with the requirements of Government
Code sections 66469 through 66472.1. (Ord. 242, 9-3-2013)
CHAPTER 9.93
ADDITIONAL SUBDIVISION PROCEDURES
SECTION:
9.93.010: Purpose
9.93.020: Certificates Of Subdivision Compliance
9.93.030: Lot Line Adjustments
9.93.040: Lot Mergers
9.93.050: Reversions To Acreage
9.93.060: Resident Initiated Mobilehome Park Conversion
9.93.070: Official Maps
9.93.010: PURPOSE:
This chapter establishes requirements consistent with the act for additional
subdivision procedures contained in this chapter. (Ord. 242, 9-3-2013)
9.93.020: CERTIFICATES OF SUBDIVISION COMPLIANCE:
   A.   General Provisions:
      1.   Compliance With Government Code: The town shall process and approve
or conditionally approve applications for certificate of subdivision compliance
in compliance with Government Code sections 66499.34 and 66499.35, and this
section.
      2.   Filing Criteria And Applicability - When Required:
         a.   A recorded certificate of compliance may be requested by any
person owning real property to have the director determine whether the property
complies with the provisions of this development code.
         b.   A certificate of compliance may be required by the director with
the recordation of a notice of merger.
         c.   A recorded certificate of compliance shall be required for all
lot line adjustments.
         d.   When contiguous deeds or surveys have ambiguities in which the
property boundary cannot be ascertained as determined by the director and an
agreement is reached to establish the line by all parties, a boundary line
agreement and a certificate of compliance shall be recorded.
         e.   When determined by the director, a certificate of compliance may
be required for the remainder parcel(s) on final or parcel maps.
   B.   Application: An application for the approval of a certificate of
compliance or conditional certificate of compliance shall be filed with the
director and include the information required by the director, together with
the processing fee specified by the planning fee schedule.
   C.   Review Authority: The director shall be the review authority for
reviewing and either approving or denying certificates of compliance.
   D.   Review And Action:
      1.   The director shall review the completed application in light of
public records and applicable law.
      2.   If the director is able to determine from this review that the
parcel is clearly in compliance with the provisions of this article 6 and the
act, a certificate of compliance shall be issued by the director and delivered
to the county recorder for recordation.
      3.   If the director is unable to determine from this review that the
parcel is in compliance with the provisions of this article 6 and the act, but
can do so with appropriate conditions, a conditional certificate of compliance
shall be issued by the director and delivered to the county recorder for
recordation.
      4.   If the director is unable to determine from this review that the
parcel is clearly in compliance, the procedures specified in Government Code
section 66499.35 shall apply.
   E.   Conditions Of Approval:
      1.   When granting a certificate of subdivision compliance for the
purpose of determining whether real property is in compliance with the code,
the following shall apply:
         a.   The requirement or conditions for granting of a certificate of
subdivision compliance shall be limited to dedication of flood control and road
or street right of way easement for lots created before March 4, 1972.
         b.   When a certificate of subdivision is requested for a parcel of
land created after March 4, 1972, the following shall apply:
            (1)   If the parcel is less than five (5) acres in size, access,
improvement, and map requirements consistent with land division requirements at
the time the parcel was created shall be required.
            (2)   If the parcel is five (5) acres or greater in size, no parcel
or record of survey map shall be required, unless the director finds that, due
to topographical, geologic, or drainage concerns, delineation of such areas is
necessary to assure adequate building sites. Access shall be provided pursuant
to subsection E1b(1) of this section.
            (3)   Access requirements across lands not in the ownership of the
applicant may be deferred until development is requested on the applicant's
property. A statement of disclosure relating to such lack of access shall be
placed on the conditional certificate of subdivision compliance advising of
this requirement to future buyers of the parcel.
         c.   If the director determines that such real property does not
comply with the provisions of this article 6, the director shall impose all the
access requirements of this article 6 before issuing a conditional certificate
of subdivision compliance, and impose those additional improvement requirements
and tentative or parcel map requirements provided in this article 6. Such
conditions may be fulfilled and implemented by the property owner who has
applied for a certificate of subdivision compliance pursuant to this section,
or by a grantee of such property owner. If such conditions are not fulfilled or
implemented by the applicant, property owner, or grantee, the certificate of
subdivision compliance shall have no force or effect upon any subsequent
transfer of the property and any subsequent transferee or assignee shall make a
new applicant for a certificate of subdivision compliance pursuant to this
article 6, and the director may impose such conditions as would have been
applicable at the time such assignee or transferee acquired the property.
      2.   All certificates of subdivision compliance shall be reviewed and
approved by the town engineer prior to recordation. A record of survey may be
required by the town engineer in order to facilitate the preparation of new
legal descriptions or to ensure the elimination of any encroachment.
      3.   A certificate of subdivision compliance shall be issued for any real
property which has been approved for development.
      4.   A recorded final subdivision map, or parcel map, or recorded lot
merger shall constitute a certificate of subdivision compliance with respect to
the parcels of real property described herein.
      5.   An official map prepared pursuant to subdivision (b) of section
66499.52 of the Government Code shall constitute a certificate of subdivision
compliance or a conditional certificate of subdivision compliance with respect
to the parcels of real property described therein and may be filed for the
record, whether or not the parcels are contiguous, so long as the parcels are
within the same section or, with the approval of the town engineer, within
contiguous sections of land. (Ord. 242, 9-3-2013)
9.93.030: LOT LINE ADJUSTMENTS:
   A.   Conditions For Allowing Lot Line Adjustments:
      1.   Compliance With Government Code Section 66412(d): Lot line
adjustments shall be allowed in compliance with Government Code section 66412
(d); provided, all of the following provisions are complied with.
      2.   Four Or Fewer Parcels: A lot line adjustment is between four (4) or
fewer existing adjoining parcels, where the land taken from one parcel is added
to an adjoining parcel, and where a greater number of parcels than originally
existed are not created.
      3.   Who Shall Prepare Application: An application for a lot line
adjustment shall be prepared by a licensed land surveyor or civil engineer
authorized to practice land surveying by the state.
      4.   Application Requirements:
         a.   An application for a lot line adjustment shall be filed and
processed in compliance with
 chapter 9.61, "Application Processing Procedures", of this title.
         b.   The application shall include the information and materials
specified in the department handout for lot line adjustment applications,
together with the required fee in compliance with the planning fee schedule.
         c.   It is the responsibility of the applicant to provide evidence in
support of the findings required by subsection C, "Processing Of Lot Line
Adjustment Application - Findings Required For Approval", of this section.
         d.   All lienholders, record owners, and trust deed holders consent in
writing to the lot line adjustment; and
         e.   A title report prepared by a title insurer, with the title report
required to be dated no older than within ninety (90) days of the filing date
of the lot line adjustment application, is submitted.
      5.   Survey May Be Required: The director may, at the director's sole
discretion, require a survey of the properties involved, if the director finds
the survey necessary in order to provide an adequate description of the subject
properties.
   B.   Review Authority: The director shall be the review authority for
reviewing and either approving or denying lot line adjustments.
   C.   Processing Of Lot Line Adjustment Application - Findings Required For
Approval:
      1.   The director may approve a lot line adjustment only after first
making all of the following findings:
         a.   No street dedication or improvements are necessary to properly
service the properties involved in the proposed lot line adjustment;
         b.   The parcels, as proposed by the lot line adjustment, will
conform, in all respects, to the provisions of this article 6 and those of this
development code;
         c.   A greater number of parcels than originally existed are not
created.
      2.   Where the director finds all of the above facts to be present, the
director shall approve the lot line adjustment; and thereafter, the owner(s) of
the parcels involved shall cause a map, in a form approved by the director, to
be recorded.
      3.   If the director finds any of the foregoing facts specified in
subsection C1 of this section, not present, the lot line adjustment shall be
denied.
         a.   The applicant shall be advised of the director's action.
         b.   In case of denial, the applicant shall have the option of:
            (1)   Appealing the decision to the commission in compliance with
chapter 9.81, "Appeals", of this title; or
            (2)   Filing a parcel or tract map in compliance with this article
6; or
            (3)   Modify the application to comply with the requirements and
resubmit. (Ord. 242, 9-3-2013)
9.93.040: LOT MERGERS:
   A.   Purpose:
      1.   This section is provided in compliance with Government Code chapter
3, article 1.5 (merger of parcels) for the purpose of establishing the
authority of the town to merge two (2) or more parcels or units of land held by
the same owner.
      2.   Lot mergers may be voluntary mergers initiated by the property owner
(s) or mandatory mergers initiated by the town.
      3.   Parcels may also be merged in compliance with Government Code
sections 66499.20.2, or 66499.20.3 pertaining to the reversion to acreage.
   B.   Voluntary Merger Of Contiguous Parcels:
      1.   Description And Purpose: It is the purpose of this subsection to
allow property owners to request a voluntary merger of contiguous parcels that
are under the same ownership.
      2.   Review Authority: The director shall be the review authority for
reviewing and either approving or denying lot mergers.
      3.   Process:
         a.   The property owner shall file an application for a lot merger.
         b.   The merger of the subject parcels becomes effective when the
director causes a notice of merger specifying the names of the record owners
and a description of the real property to be filed for recordation with the
county recorder.
      4.   Requirements: A parcel may be voluntarily merged with one or more
contiguous parcels held by the same owner: if any one of the contiguous parcels
held by the same owner does not conform to standards for minimum parcel size or
dimension specified by the applicable zone; if the property owner wishes to
construct a structure across the property line(s) of two (2) or more contiguous
parcels; or, if at least one of the parcels meets one or more of the
requirements specified in the Government Code section 66451.11(b).
   C.   Where These Provision Do Not Apply:
      1.   This section shall not apply to the sale, lease, or financing of one
or more contiguous parcels or units of land which have been created under the
provisions of town ordinances regulating the subdivision of real property and
Government Code section 66410 et seq., applicable at the time of their
creation, or to parcels or units which were not subject to the provisions at
the time of their creation, even though the contiguous parcels or units are
held by the same owner.
      2.   However, if any one of the contiguous parcels or units held by the
same owner does not conform to standards for minimum parcel size to allow use
or development in compliance with this development code and the standards
established by subsection D, "Unmerged Parcels Prior To January 1, 1984", of
this section, then those parcels or units shall be merged.
   D.   Unmerged Parcels Prior To January 1, 1984: Any parcels or units which
were deemed unmerged, before January 1, 1984, under the act and which have not
been merged subsequently shall be considered separate parcels or units for
purposes of this subsection.
   E.   Mandatory Merger Of Nonconforming Contiguous Parcels Under Single
Ownership: Contiguous parcels or units of land held by the same owner on the
date that notice of intention to determine status is filed shall be
involuntarily merged if one of the parcels or units does not conform to the
minimum parcel size to allow use or development in compliance with this
development code, and if all of the following requirements are satisfied in
compliance with Government Code section 66451.11(b):
      1.   At least one of the affected parcels is not developed with any
structure for which a building permit was issued or for which a building permit
was not required at the time of construction, or is developed only with an
accessory structure(s), or is developed with a single structure, other than an
accessory structure, that is also partially sited on a contiguous parcel or
unit.
      2.   With respect to any affected parcel, one or more of the following
conditions exists:
         a.   Comprises less than five thousand (5,000) square feet in area at
the time of the determination of merger.
         b.   Was not created in compliance with applicable laws and ordinances
in effect at the time of its creation.
         c.   Does not meet current standards for sewage disposal and domestic
water supply.
         d.   Does not meet slope stability standards.
         e.   Has no legal access which is adequate for vehicular and safety
equipment access and maneuverability.
         f.   Its development would create health or safety hazards.
         g.   Is not consistent with the applicable general plan and any
applicable specific plan, other than minimum parcel size or density standards.
      3.   Subsection E2 of this section, shall not apply if any of the
conditions specified in Government Code sections 66451.11(A), (B), (C), (D) or
(E) exist.
   F.   Proceedings For Notice Of Intention To Determine Status:
      1.   Whenever the director has knowledge that real property has merged in
compliance with this section, the director shall mail, by certified mail, to
the current record owner(s) of the property a notice of intention to determine
status.
         a.   The notice of intention shall state that the affected parcels may
be merged in compliance with this section; that the owner may request, within
thirty (30) days from the date the notice of intention was recorded, a hearing
before the commission to present evidence that the property does not meet the
standards for merger; and that the notice of intention was recorded with the
county recorder on the date the notice of intention was mailed to the property
owner(s).
         b.   Upon receipt of a request for a hearing, the director shall set
the hearing for a date not less than thirty (30) days but not more than sixty
(60) days from the date of receipt of the request.
         c.   The property owner shall be notified of the hearing by certified
mail.
         d.   After the hearing, the commission shall determine whether the
affected property has merged in compliance with this section.
         e.   A determination of nonmerger may be made whether or not the
affected property meets the standards for merger specified in subsection E of
this section.
         f.   The determination shall be made and notification of the
determination shall be mailed to the property owner(s) within five (5) working
days following the date of the hearing.
      2.   If the parcels have merged, the director shall file a notice of
merger with the county recorder within thirty (30) days following the date of
the hearing, unless the determination has been appealed in compliance with
subsection F3 of this section and
chapter 9.81, "Appeals", of this title.
         a.   The notice of merger shall specify the name(s) of the record
owner(s) and shall particularly describe the real property.
         b.   If the parcels have not merged, the director shall record a
release of the notice of intention within thirty (30) days following the date
of the determination, and shall mail a copy of the release to the owner(s).
         c.   If no hearing is requested, the determination shall be made not
later than ninety (90) days after the mailing of the notice of the opportunity
for a hearing.
      3.   If the owner(s) requested a hearing, the determination of the
commission may be appealed to the council within ten (10) days following the
date of mailing the notice of determination by filing a written appeal with the
town clerk, in compliance with
chapter 9.81, "Appeals", of this title.
         a.   A fee in compliance with the planning fee schedule shall be paid
at the time of filing the appeal.
         b.   Upon receipt of an appeal and payment of the fee, the town clerk
shall place the matter on the council agenda not less than thirty (30), but not
more than sixty (60), days following the date the appeal was filed.
         c.   If, after a hearing, the council grants the appeal, the town
clerk shall, within thirty (30) days, record a release of the notice of
intention with the county recorder.
         d.   If the appeal is denied, the town clerk shall, within thirty (30)
days, record a notice of merger with the county recorder.
         e.   A copy of either the release or the notice of merger shall be
sent to the property owner(s).
   G.   Unmerger:
      1.   Deemed Unmerged: Any parcel or unit of land which merged in
compliance with the provisions of any law before January 1, 1984, but for which
a notice of merger was not recorded on or before that date are deemed unmerged,
if on January 1, 1984, all of the criteria established by Government Code
section 66451.30(a) are met, and if none of the conditions specified in
Government Code section 66451.30(b) exist.
      2.   Filing Of A Certificate Of Compliance: Upon request of an owner, the
director shall file a certificate of compliance whenever the director
determines that a parcel is unmerged in compliance with this subsection.
   H.   Request For Determination Of Merger:
      1.   Director's Determination Of Merged Or Unmerged:
         a.   A property owner may request that the director determine whether
property has merged in compliance with subsection E, "Mandatory Merger Of
Nonconforming Contiguous Parcels Under Single Ownership", of this section, or
is deemed unmerged in compliance with subsection G, "Unmerger", of this
section.
         b.   A request for determination shall be made in writing and shall be
accompanied by a fee in compliance with the planning fee schedule.
      2.   Determination Of Merged: Upon determination that property has
merged, the director shall issue to the owner(s) and record with the county
recorder a notice of merger.
      3.   Determination Of Unmerged: Upon determination that property is
deemed unmerged, the director shall issue to the owner(s) and record with the
county recorder a certificate of compliance showing each parcel as a separate
parcel. (Ord. 242, 9-3-2013)
9.93.050: REVERSIONS TO ACREAGE:
   A.   Filing Provisions:
      1.   A reversion to acreage shall be initiated, processed, reviewed, and
approved or denied in compliance with Government Code chapter 6, article 1.
      2.   An application for reversion submitted by a property owner(s) shall
include all information required by the director, and shall include the fee
required by the planning fee schedule.
      3.   A parcel map may be filed to revert to acreage land previously
subdivided that consists of four (4) or less contiguous parcels, in compliance
with Government Code section 66499.20.2.
      4.   A tract map may be filed to revert to acreage land previously
subdivided that consists of five (5) or more contiguous parcels, in compliance
with Government Code section 66499.20.2.
   B.   Review Authority: The council shall be the review authority for
reviewing and either approving or denying reversions to acreage.
   C.   Procedures:
      1.   Public Hearing Required:
         a.   The commission shall hold a public hearing on all petitions for,
and council initiations of, reversions to acreage.
         b.   The notice of the hearing shall be provided and the hearing shall
be conducted in compliance with
chapter 9.85, "Public Notices And Hearings", of this title.
         c.   The commission shall render its decision in the form of a written
recommendation to the council.
         d.   The recommendation shall include the reasons for the
recommendation and shall be transmitted to the council.
         e.   Upon receipt of the recommendation of the commission, the council
shall hold a public hearing.
         f.   The notice of the hearing shall be provided and the hearing shall
be conducted in compliance with
 chapter 9.85, "Public Notices And Hearings", of this title.
         g.   The council may approve a reversion to acreage only if it first
makes all of the findings required by subsection D, "Required Findings", of
this section.
   D.   Required Findings: The review authority shall approve a reversion to
acreage only after first making all of the following findings, as required by
Government Code section 66499.16:
      1.   Dedications or offers of dedication to be abandoned or vacated by
the reversion to acreage are unnecessary for present or prospective public
purposes; and
      2.   Either:
         a.   All owners of an interest in the real property within the
subdivision have consented to the reversion;
         b.   None of the improvements required to be made have been made
within two (2) years from the date the final or parcel map was filed for
record, or within the time allowed by agreement for completion of the
improvements, whichever is the later; or
         c.   No parcels shown on the final or parcel map have been sold within
five (5) years from the date the map was filed for record.
   E.   Recordation Procedures:
      1.   After the hearings before the commission and the council and
approval of the reversion to acreage, the final or parcel map, as applicable,
shall be delivered to the town engineer.
      2.   The reversion to acreage shall be effective upon the final or parcel
map being filed for recordation by the county recorder.
      3.   Upon filing, all dedications and offers of dedication not shown on
the final or parcel map for reversion shall be of no further force or effect.
   F.   Effect Of Reversion: The filing of a final or parcel map, as
applicable, to complete a reversion to acreage shall also constitute the merger
of the separate parcels into one parcel, in compliance with Government Code
section 66499.20.2.
   G.   Conditions For Reversion To Acreage By Final Map: The council may
require as conditions for the reversion of acreage the following:
      1.   The owners dedicate or offer to dedicate streets or easements.
      2.   The retention of all or portion of previously paid subdivision fees,
deposits, or improvement security, if the same are necessary to accomplish any
of the provision of this article 6.
      3.   The retention of drainage easements for drainage and flood control.
   H.   Conditions For Reversion To Acreage By Parcel Map: After approval of
the petition, a parcel map shall be prepared in accordance with this article 6
provided, however, that said parcel map may be compiled from recorded data if
all the following conditions exist:
      1.   New division lines are not created.
      2.   The complete parcel boundary has been monumented and shown on a
recorded subdivision map or parcel map.
      3.   When at least one of these boundary lines can be established from an
existing monumented line.
   I.   Return Of Deposits And Release Of Securities: Except as provided in
this article 6, upon filing of the final map for reversion to acreage with the
county recorder, deposits shall be returned to the subdivider and all
improvement securities shall be released by the council. (Ord. 242, 9-3-2013)
9.93.060: RESIDENT INITIATED MOBILEHOME PARK CONVERSION:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to facilitate resident purchase
of mobilehome parks. This section allows the waiver of certain subdivision
requirements and expedites local government processing for mobilehome park
conversions to condominiums or stock cooperatives. These conversions will
preserve an important source of affordable housing.
   B.   Applicability: For the purposes of this section, an application for
subdivision shall be considered "resident initiated" when signed by a resident
organization formed by the tenants of the subject mobilehome park for the
purpose of purchasing the mobilehome park. The proposed conversion shall be
supported by a minimum of two-thirds (2/3) of the current residents of the
park. The resident organization shall have a legally binding contract, which,
if the conditions of the contract are met, would result in the acquisition of
an interest in the mobilehome park. A preapplication conference may be
requested by the applicant(s) before formation of the resident organization or
before entering into a legally binding contract; provided the director
determines in writing that it is reasonable to believe that the contract may be
entered into within a twelve (12) month period.
   C.   Exclusions: The provisions of this section shall not apply to:
      1.   The purchase of a mobilehome park by a nonprofit corporation which
is subject to the provisions of Business And Professions Code section 11010.8;
or
      2.   Special occupancy parks (e.g., recreation vehicle parks) as defined
in mobilehome parks act section 2008, of the California code of regulations
title 25.
   D.   Waiver Of Tentative And Final Map Requirements: Notwithstanding other
provisions of this article 6, the requirement for the filing of a tentative map
and the preparation, filing, and recordation of a final map for a mobilehome
park conversion to a condominium or stock cooperative on a single parcel, may
be waived by the director in compliance with map act section 66428.1; provided
the following procedures are followed by a resident organization desiring to
convert their park and the necessary findings are made by the director:
      1.   Preapplication Conference: Before filing an application for
mobilehome park conversion, the resident association shall have a
preapplication conference with the development review committee. The purpose of
this conference is to determine that the proposal qualifies under the
provisions of this section. The following information shall be submitted with
the application for the conference:
         a.   Previously approved plot plan for the mobilehome park. If none
exists, a plot plan shall be filed in compliance with the requirements
established by and available at the department.
         b.   A supplemental report to include the following information:
            (1)   Name of consultants, if any.
            (2)   Disclosure of all known fees and costs for the conversion
process.
            (3)   Documentation demonstrating that a minimum of two-thirds (2/
3) of the residents of the mobilehome park support the proposed conversion.
            (4)   Declarations from those residents supporting the conversion
that their principal place of residence is within the subject mobilehome park.
            (5)   The location of the park and results of a field inspection
done by the applicant(s) or consultant regarding the status of the compliance
of the park with the county health and safety standards in effect at the time
the park was created. Any on site dedications or public improvements to be
required shall be identified by the committee.
            (6)   Proposed tentative schedules to expedite meeting and
coordinating any requirements of the community development department,
including, but not limited to, the public report. The schedule shall include an
outline of the permits and noticing required to allow this conversion and the
estimated time at which the permits are obtained.
            (7)   Evidence showing that the sixty (60) day notice of intent to
file the conversion application (as required by map act section 66427.1(a)) has
been met.
            (8)   Initial report on the impact of the conversion on the
residents of the mobilehome park. This report is needed to determine whether an
impact report as required in map act section 66427.4 is needed. The report
shall specify whether any residents of the park are to be involuntarily
displaced and any proposed measures to mitigate the displacement. A resident,
who is offered an opportunity to remain in the park after the conversion
through continuation of the tenancy at generally the same terms as existed
before proposed conversion, shall not be considered involuntarily displaced. At
the preapplication conference the development review committee shall indicate
whether an impact report needs to be filed with the formal application for the
conversion. If it is required, the development review committee shall identify
in detail any additional items to be required as mitigation measures to assist
any displaced residents. No current resident shall be involuntarily displaced
without proper notice, assistance, or compensation, to be worked out on a case
by case basis. The noticing, assistance, or compensation may include the
following:
               (A)   The project shall comply with the mobilehome residency
law, Civil Code section 798 et seq.
               (B)   The project applicants may be required to provide
relocation assistance in compliance with federal, state, or local laws.
               (C)   The planning representative of the development review
committee shall field check the park before the scheduled meeting. The
development review committee shall establish if the proposed mobilehome park
conversion meets the intent and is capable of meeting the provisions of this
section. The director shall attempt to inform the applicant(s) at the earliest
opportunity if a public hearing is to be required. If the proposed mobilehome
park conversion is acceptable, the development review committee shall identify
the information the applicant needs to file to proceed with the proposal. The
information shall include the following:
                  (i) Development review committee preapplication conference
minutes. These minutes shall include the proposed tentative schedules required
by subsection D1b(6) of this section.
                  (ii) If the parcel upon which the park lies was created
before January 1, 1960, a parcel map application shall be required. The
application shall be processed concurrently with any other information filed in
compliance with the preapplication conference.
                  (iii) Mobilehome park conversion impact report, if required
at the preapplication conference to meet the requirements of map act section
66427.4. The report shall be given to each resident within the mobilehome park.
                  (iv) Mobilehome park plot plan if no plot plan was previously
approved.
                  (v) Any special information which was identified by the
development review committee. Among the information may be information to
assist in the environmental review of the proposal.
                  (vi) Certificate of compliance application.
               (D)   The review and processing of any application in compliance
with this section shall be subject to the same review and time requirements and
appeal procedures as are provided in this article 6 for tentative maps. In any
case where waiver of the tentative and final map is granted, the director shall
cause to be filed for record with the county recorder a certificate of
compliance in compliance with this article 6. The director may require a public
hearing in compliance with
chapter 9.85, "Public Notices And Hearings", of this title. Should a public
hearing be required the noticing provisions of map act section 66451.3 shall be
met.
      2.   Findings For Approval: A mobilehome park conversion shall be
approved or conditionally approved only if all of the following are first found
to be true:
         a.   The mobilehome park complies with the requirements established by
state law and this code for these uses at the time the mobilehome park was
constructed. The regulations shall include those regarding area, improvement
and design, floodwater drainage control, public roads, sanitary disposal
facilities, water supply and distribution systems, environmental protection,
and other requirements of the map act and this article 6;
         b.   Any measures necessary to mitigate the impact of the conversion
on current residents of the park have been required as conditions of approval;
and
         c.   Applicable noticing requirements of the map act have been, or
will be met.
      3.   Conditions Of Approval: The following conditions may be required by
the director as conditions of approval for the proposed conversion:
         a.   Subdivisions allowed by this section may include conditions
requiring a compliance survey inspection to the satisfaction of the director.
However, the survey shall be limited to require improvements relating only to
items of a health and safety nature.
         b.   The mobilehome condominiums or stock cooperatives shall be
subject to California code of regulations title 25.
         c.   Only additional on site improvements or development standards
which were applicable at the time the mobilehome park was originally developed
may be required.
         d.   Off site public improvements for qualifying mobilehome parks
shall be waived, except as follows:
            (1)   Any off site improvements shall be financed with appropriate
assessment bonds.
            (2)   The certificate of compliance shall not be delayed or
contingent upon completion of the off site improvements.
         e.   Any requirements and/or documents required by the state common
interest development act, title 6 (commencing with section 1350), part 4,
division 2 of the California Civil Code.
         f.   Conditions of approval necessary to ensure any noticing
requirements that are required by map act section 66427.1 are met.
         g.   Any plan or document required to be submitted to the department
of real estate shall be reviewed for consistency with the approved project and
plot plan. The plan shall reference the "waiver" notice requirement in
subsection D3h of this section, to the satisfaction of the director.
         h.   Notice shall be placed on the certificate of subdivision
compliance that standard subdivision requirements for the creation of
condominiums/stock cooperatives have been waived by the town and only
conditions applicable to the original development of the mobilehome park have
been required.
         i.   The applicants shall comply with the indemnification requirements
of section
9.02.040, "Legal Defense Fee Responsibility", of this title.
         j.   The director may impose any conditions of approval to ensure any
appropriate measures for relocation assistance are implemented.
         k.   No mobilehome shall be required to be placed on a permanent
foundation as a result of the conditional approval.
         l.   Any condition of approval required in compliance with this
section shall be drafted to expedite the conversion process. (Ord. 242, 9-3-
2013)
9.93.070: OFFICIAL MAPS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to provide procedures for
official maps.
   B.   Applicability: Official maps shall be required as described in
Government Code section 66499.52.
   C.   Procedures: Official maps shall be reviewed and processed using the
procedures outlined in c
hapter 9.91, "Tentative Map Filing And Procedures", of this article 6, the
procedures pertaining to the processing and approval of parcel maps or final
maps in
chapter 9.92, "Parcel Maps And Final Maps", of this article 6, and the
provisions of map act division 3. (Ord. 242, 9-3-2013)
CHAPTER 9.94
DEDICATION AND EXACTIONS
SECTION:
9.94.010: Purpose And Applicability
9.94.020: Applicability
9.94.030: Dedications
9.94.040: Acceptance Of Dedications
9.94.010: PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY:
This chapter establishes standards for subdivider dedications of land or
payment of fees, in conjunction with subdivision approval. (Ord. 242, 9-3-2013)
9.94.020: APPLICABILITY:
Each proposed subdivision shall comply with the requirements of this chapter
for dedications, reservations, or the payment of fees. (Ord. 242, 9-3-2013)
9.94.030: DEDICATIONS:
   A.   Streets, Highways, And Flood Control Rights Of Way:
      1.   As a condition of approval of a map, the subdivider shall dedicate
or make an irrevocable offer of dedication of all parcels of land within the
subdivision that are needed for:
         a.   Access rights and abutters' rights;
         b.   Alleys;
         c.   Drainage easements;
         d.   Public utility easements;
         e.   Streets;
         f.   Trails;
         g.   Avigation; and
         h.   Other public easements.
      2.   In addition, the subdivider shall improve or agree to improve all
streets, alleys, including access rights and abutters' rights, drainage, public
utility easements and other public easements. The subdivider may also be
required to dedicate the additional land as may be necessary and feasible to
provide bicycle paths for the use and safety of residents of the subdivision.
   B.   Drainage Rights Of Way: When the director determines that drainage
rights of way are necessary, the subdivider shall offer to dedicate upon the
final map of the subdivision the necessary rights of way for drainage
facilities.
   C.   Flood Control Dedication: Where dedication is offered for flood control
rights of way, the rights of way shall be shown as parcels lettered
alphabetically on the final map. The offer of dedication shall be made by an
appropriate certificate on the title sheet of the final map, and, in addition,
an executed deed conveying fee title to the right of way to the town shall be
delivered to the town. (Ord. 242, 9-3-2013)
9.94.040: ACCEPTANCE OF DEDICATIONS:
   A.   Certification Of Town Council Action: At the time the council approves
a final map, it shall also accept, subject to improvement, or reject any offer
of dedication. The town clerk shall certify on the map the action of the
council.
   B.   Resolution Of Acceptance: The town clerk shall cause a resolution of
acceptance of dedications by the council to be filed with the county recorder.
   C.   Deferred Acceptance: If, at the time the final map is approved, any
streets, alleys, paths, public utility easements, rights of way for local
transit facilities including bus turnouts, benches, shelters, landing pads, and
similar items that directly benefit the residents of a subdivision, or storm
drainage easements are rejected subject to Code Of Civil Procedure section
771.010, the offer of dedication shall remain open and the council may by
resolution at any later date, and without further action by the subdivider,
rescind its action and accept and open the streets, alleys, paths, rights of
way for local transit facilities including bus turnouts, benches, shelters,
landing pads, and similar items that directly benefit the residents of a
subdivision, or storm drainage easements for public use. The acceptance shall
be recorded in the office of the county recorder. (Ord. 242, 9-3-2013)
CHAPTER 9.95
SUBDIVISION DESIGN AND IMPROVEMENT REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
9.95.010: Purpose
9.95.020: Applicability
9.95.030: Subdivision Design Standards
9.95.040: Site Preparation And Grading For Subdivision Construction
9.95.050: Subdivision Improvement Requirements
9.95.010: PURPOSE:
This chapter establishes standards for the design and layout of subdivisions,
and the design, construction, or installation of public improvements within
subdivisions. The purpose of these standards is to ensure, through careful site
evaluation and design, the creation of new usable parcels that are consistent
with the general plan, any applicable community plan, and any applicable
specific plan. (Ord. 242, 9-3-2013)
9.95.020: APPLICABILITY:
The requirements of this chapter apply as follows:
   A.   Extent Of Required Improvements: Each subdivision of four (4) or fewer
parcels, and each subdivision of five (5) or more parcels, shall provide the
improvements required by this chapter, and any additional improvements required
by conditions of approval.
   B.   Applicable Design Standards, Timing Of Installation: The subdivider
shall construct all on and off site improvements according to standards
approved by the town engineer. No parcel or final map shall be presented to the
town council for approval and no parcel map shall be presented to the town
engineer for approval until the subdivider either completes the required
improvements, or enters into a subdivision improvement agreement with the town
for the work in compliance with section
9.95.050, "Subdivision Improvement Requirements", of this chapter.
   C.   Subdivision Improvement Standards Conditions Of Approval: The
applicable subdivision improvement and dedication requirements of this chapter
and any other improvements and dedications required by the review authority in
compliance with section
9.91.060, "Tentative Map Approval Or Denial", of this article 6, shall be
described in conditions of approval adopted for each approved tentative map
(section
 9.91.070 of this article 6). The design, construction, or installation of all
subdivision improvements shall comply with the requirements of the director.
   D.   Oversizing Of Improvements:
      1.   At the discretion of the review authority, improvements required to
be installed by the subdivider for the benefit of the subdivision may also be
required to provide supplemental size, capacity, number, or length for the
benefit of property not within the subdivision, and may be required to be
dedicated to the town, in compliance with map act chapter 4, article 6.
      2.   In the event that oversizing is required, the town shall comply with
all applicable provisions of map act section 66485 et seq., including the
reimbursement provisions of map act section 66486.
      3.   If a parcel proposed for subdivision is subject to an existing
reimbursement agreement, the subdivider shall pay the required reimbursement
before the recordation of the parcel or final map, or the issuance of a
building permit for construction on the parcel, whichever occurs first.
   E.   Exceptions: Exceptions to the requirements of this chapter may be
requested and considered in compliance with section
 9.90.100, "Exceptions To Subdivision Standards", of this article 6. (Ord. 242,
9-3-2013)
9.95.030: SUBDIVISION DESIGN STANDARDS:
   A.   Purpose: This section establishes standards for the design and layout
of subdivisions, and the design, construction, or installation of public
improvements within subdivisions. The purpose of these standards is to ensure,
through careful site evaluation and design, the creation of new usable parcels
that are consistent with the general plan, any applicable community plan, and
any applicable specific plan.
   B.   Applicability: Each subdivision shall be designed in compliance with
the standards of this section, except where an exception is granted in
compliance with section
9.90.100, "Exceptions To Subdivision Standards", of this article 6.
   C.   Roads And Streets: The layout, design, and construction of proposed
roads and streets shall comply with the general plan, and adopted street
standards.
      1.   Circulation Standards:
         a.   General Plan Consistency: The circulation design of all
subdivisions shall be compatible and coordinate with the general plan (and any
applicable community or specific plan) and the existing street and land use
pattern in the surrounding area.
         b.   Part Width Highways And Alignments: Any part width highway lying
along and adjacent to any boundary of a subdivision shall have a part width and
alignment as will conform to the route lines shown in the circulation element
covering the same portion of the subdivision.
         c.   Cul-De-Sacs: Cul-de-sac streets shall not exceed six hundred feet
(600') in length, except as provided below, and shall terminate with a
turnaround as specified in the adopted town road standards. The director may
approve a cul-de-sac that exceeds six hundred feet (600') if the director first
finds that the cul-de- sac will not be injurious to the public health, safety,
and general welfare. Cul-de-sac lengths shall also be approved by the fire
department.
         d.   Road Grades: Road grades shall not exceed twelve percent (12%)
unless it can be demonstrated that a road grade in excess of twelve percent
(12%) is necessary to accomplish the objectives of the general plan (and any
applicable community or specific plan). In these circumstances, the director
may approve a road grade not to exceed fourteen percent (14%) grade for a
distance not to exceed five hundred feet (500') if a finding is first made,
based upon the recommendations of the town engineer and the San Bernardino
County fire department division chief that the roadway will not create an
unacceptable hazardous risk to the public health, safety, or general welfare.
         e.   Subdivision Access: The subdivision and each of its phases shall
have a minimum of two (2) points of vehicular ingress and egress from existing
and surrounding streets, one of which may be for emergency use only. Where
providing this access is physically impossible or a cul-de-sac is proposed,
this requirement may be waived or modified.
         f.   Fire Department Requirements: Projects shall comply with all
applicable fire department requirements.
      2.   Infrastructure Improvements: Infrastructure improvements shall be
dedicated and constructed consistent with the requirements of
chapter 9.30, "Dedications And Infrastructure Improvements", of this title.
   D.   Public Access To Public Resources: Each proposed subdivision shall be
designed and constructed to provide public access to public trails, parks and
other public resources in compliance with map act chapter 4, article 3.5,
public access to public resources.
   E.   Parcel Design: The size, shape, and arrangement of proposed parcels
shall comply with this section and with any general plan (and any applicable
community or specific plan) policy, requirement, or other town code provision
that applies to proposed subdivisions.
      1.   General Parcel Design Standards:
         a.   Each proposed parcel shall be determined by the review authority
to be "buildable" because it contains at least one building site that can
accommodate a structure in compliance with all applicable provisions of this
development code.
         b.   No subdivision shall be designed to leave unsubdivided islands,
strips or parcels, or property unsuitable for subdividing, which is not either
accepted by the town or other appropriate entity for public use, or maintained,
as common area within the development.
      2.   Parcel Area: Each proposed parcel shall comply with the minimum area
requirements of the applicable land use zoning district established by article
2, "Zoning Districts And Development Standards", of this title, except as
otherwise provided by this section.
         a.   Calculation Of Area: When calculating the area of a parcel to
determine compliance with this section, this article 6 or the general plan (and
any applicable community or specific plan), the following shall be deducted
from the gross area of any parcel:
            (1)   A vehicular access easement through the parcel, unless there
is alternative legal and physical access to the parcel for which the easement
is granted;
            (2)   Any easement completely restricting or prohibiting any use of
the property, for ingress, egress, landscaping, recreation, storage, etc.; or
            (3)   The "flagpole" (access strip) of a flag lot.
         b.   Minimum Parcel Area Requirements For Common Interest Projects:
The minimum parcel area requirements of this development code or the minimum
"buildable" parcel size shall not apply to condominiums, condominium
conversions, and townhouses, but shall apply to the creation of the original
parcel(s) that are the location of the condominium or townhouse.
      3.   Dimensions And Configuration: The dimensions of each new parcel
shall comply with the requirements of the applicable land use zoning district
established by article 2, "Zoning Districts And Development Standards", of this
title, or as otherwise required by the review authority.
         a.   Side parcel lines shall be approximately normal to street lines.
         b.   Each parcel on a dead end street where the side lines converge
from front to the rear of the parcel shall have an average width of not less
than sixty feet (60'), or the width required by this development code,
whichever is greater, measured along the front building setback line. Minimum
lot width at the right of way line shall be thirty feet (30') for lots with
average widths up to one hundred feet (100'). Lots with average widths of one
hundred feet (100') or greater shall have minimum lot width at the right of way
line of sixty feet (60').
         c.   Each parcel on a curved street where the side lines converge from
the front to the rear of the parcel shall have an average width of not less
than sixty feet (60'), or the width required by this development code,
whichever is greater.
         d.   Double frontage parcels shall be discouraged except where
essential to separate residential developments from major or secondary highways
or due to topographical conditions. When double frontage parcels are allowed,
vehicular access rights shall be relinquished to the town along the street
designated by the director.
         e.   The director may require parcels larger than the above minimum
sizes specified in multi-family residential, commercial, and industrial
subdivisions. When parcels twice or more the required area or width are shown
as part of a subdivision, the director may require the parcel(s) to be so
established as to make practical a further division into allowable building
sites, without injury to adjoining property.
         f.   In desert, hilly, or mountainous areas, the director may require
parcels larger than required minimums. Larger parcels shall be required when it
is deemed to be necessary in order to conform to the general plan or any
applicable community or specific plan.
         g.   Flag lots shall be discouraged.
         h.   Modification of these parcel design standards may be allowed in
compliance with:
            (1)   The parcel area regulations of article 2 of this title.
            (2)   The planned development standards and regulations of article
4 of this title.
         i.   This subsection does not apply to any parcel which the subdivider
offers to dedicate to the town or any public agency or district.
         j.   When a land use zoning district classification line divides a
parcel(s), the area and frontage requirements for the parcel(s) shall be those
of the land use zoning district that requires the greater or most restrictive
standards between the two (2) districts involved.
   F.   Energy Conservation: Each proposed subdivision shall be designed to
provide maximum opportunities for energy conservation, including opportunities
for passive or natural heating or cooling opportunities, in compliance with map
act section 66473.1, as follows:
      1.   Street Layout: The streets proposed in a subdivision shall be
planned in a primarily east-west orientation where feasible.
      2.   Parcel And Building Site Design: Proposed parcels shall be designed,
where feasible, to provide building sites that allow the orientation of
structures in east-west alignment for southern exposure.
   G.   Environmental Health: Lands to be subdivided for residential, park,
playground, or land recreation purposes may be subject to environmental quality
standards as established by ordinances and regulations of the different
departments and agencies within the town.
   H.   Fire Protection:
      1.   Subdivision design shall provide for safe and ready access for fire
and other emergency equipment and for routes of escape to safely handle
evacuations.
      2.   The subdivision shall be served by water supplies for community fire
protection in compliance with the standards established by the appropriate fire
authority. (Ord. 242, 9-3-2013)
9.95.040: SITE PREPARATION AND GRADING FOR SUBDIVISION CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Grading: Before the issuance of a building permit, a grading plan
prepared and signed by a registered civil engineer shall be submitted to and
approved by the engineering division. Grading plans shall, at a minimum, show
the elevations of the natural ground at all lot corners, the finished grade at
corners, the finished pad elevation, finished floor elevations, rates and
directions of all drainage swales, elevation height of all retaining or
perimeter walls and finished sidewalk elevations at all front lot lines, and
existing topographic elevations and drainage direction one hundred feet (100')
outside the boundary of proposed project area and/or map.
      1.   Minimum Slopes: The minimum grade of all drainage swales on parcels
shall be 0.5 percent, unless approved differently by the town engineer.
      2.   Pad Elevation, Residential: The building pad elevation of
residential parcels shall be established at a minimum of ten inches (10") above
the design sidewalk elevation at the lowest point of the parcel. The finished
floor elevation of slab floor houses shall be a minimum of sixteen inches (16")
above the sidewalk elevation. The pad elevation of all residential parcels
shall be established at least one foot (1') above the maximum water surface in
an adjacent storm drain channel or the ponded surface in an adjacent sump for
collection of storm drain waters. An exception may be allowed in the case of a
proposed subdivision served by a storm drain pump station. The standards of
this subsection shall apply to any building pad elevation, except where the
requirements of the California building code (CBC) exceed these standards, in
which case the requirements of the CBC shall apply. However, the town engineer
may approve a waiver of these elevations where the pad elevation is protected
from flooding or runoff from the public right of way.
      3.   Drainage Plan: No interparcel or "cross drainage" shall be allowed,
except as authorized by the town engineer. Each parcel shall drain its own
water to a public street, approved public or private drainage facility, or
natural drainage course without passing through or across an adjacent parcel,
except where a legal right exists (e.g., a drainage easement), and is
authorized by the town engineer. No parcel shall drain water over the bank of a
flood control channel.
      4.   Grading Practices: All grading within the town shall employ the best
available management practices, as determined by the town engineer, to minimize
erosion, sedimentation, and unnecessary grading.
      5.   Grading Exceptions: Specific exceptions to the above requirements
may be authorized at the discretion of the town engineer.
      6.   Bonding: The town may require as a condition of approval that a bond
be secured before any grading when the grading is proposed before recordation
of the parcel or final map. This bond would be used to install landscaping and
appropriate erosion control measures as needed if the subdivider abandons the
project after grading occurs. All bonding shall be in compliance with section
9.96.040, "Improvement Agreements, Lien Agreements, And Securities", of this
article 6.
      7.   Hillside Grading: If the subject property is within an area having a
natural slope gradient of fifteen percent (15%) or greater, refer to
chapter 9.20, "Hillside Overlay District", of this title for applicable
procedures and standards.
   B.   Erosion And Sediment Control: A proposed subdivision shall be designed
so that all grading incorporates appropriate erosion and sediment control
measures. (Ord. 242, 9-3-2013)
9.95.050: SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Bicycle/Walking Paths And Hiking/Equestrian Trails: Depending on the
circumstances surrounding a specific project, the town may require, as a
condition of approval, the subdivider to construct bicycle/walking paths and/or
hiking/equestrian trails within an approved subdivision as determined by the
review authority. In the event the review authority determines that path or
trail construction within a subdivision would be infeasible or constitute
unsound engineering, the review authority may grant the subdivider the option
to pay into a fund, dedicated for these uses, the amount per foot, as
determined by the review authority.
   B.   Fire Hydrants: The subdivider shall install fire hydrants, with their
associated underground water pipes, of sizes and locations as required and
approved by the fire department.
   C.   Monuments: The subdivider shall install monuments in compliance with
the requirements of section 66495 of the map act.
   D.   Private Facilities Maintenance: A subdivision with common area or
private streets shall have conditions, covenants, and restrictions (CC&Rs)
approved by the town to provide for the maintenance of the common areas and/or
private streets, and establish standards for maintenance. Private streets shall
be constructed in accordance with public street standards.
   E.   Public Utilities: Each approved parcel shall be provided connections to
public utilities, including electricity, gas, water, septic tanks or sewer as
applicable, and telecommunications services, which shall be installed as part
of the subdivision improvements as provided by this section.
      1.   Underground Utilities Required: Utility lines, including electric,
telephone, communications, and street lighting, within or directly serving each
subdivision, shall be placed underground. The subdivider is responsible for
complying with the requirements of this subsection without expense to the town,
and shall make necessary arrangements with the utility company for the
installation of the facilities. Appurtenances and associated equipment (e.g.,
boxes and meter cabinets) and concealed ducts in an underground system may be
placed above ground. Waiver of the requirements for underground utilities shall
be made through the public utilities commission. This subsection shall not
apply to existing utility or common carrier routes in use at the time the
subdivision is completed which do not provide service to the area subdivided.
      2.   Cable Television Systems: If a local cable television system is
available to serve the project, any subdivision for which a tentative map is
required, or a parcel map for which a tentative map was not required, shall be
designed to provide the appropriate cable television system an opportunity to
construct, install, and maintain on land as reserved for cable television
service or by separate instrument, any equipment necessary to extend cable
television services to each residential parcel in the subdivision.
         a.   "Appropriate cable television system", as used in this
subsection, means those franchised or licensed to serve the geographical area
in which the subdivision is located.
         b.   This subsection shall not apply to the conversion of existing
dwelling units to condominiums, community apartments, or stock cooperatives.
      3.   Reimbursement For Relocation Or Replacement: Whenever the town
imposes as a condition of its approval of a tentative map or a parcel map a
requirement that necessitates replacing, undergrounding, or permanently or
temporarily relocating existing facilities of a telephone corporation or cable
television system, common carrier, or other public utility, the developer or
subdivider shall reimburse the appropriate facility provider for all costs for
the replacement, undergrounding, or relocation. All of these costs shall be
billed after they are incurred, and shall include a credit for any required
advance payments and for the salvage value of any facilities replaced. Under no
circumstances shall the telephone corporation or cable television system be
reimbursed for costs incurred in excess of the cost to replace the facilities
with substantially similar facilities.
      4.   Water Supply: Each approved parcel shall be served by an approved
well or community water system, and shall be designed and constructed to
accommodate both domestic and fire flows, together with necessary fire hydrants
to serve each parcel proposed to be created.
   F.   Street Lighting: Each proposed subdivision shall provide street
lighting facilities designed and constructed in compliance with the town's
infrastructure standards and specifications.
   G.   Street Signs And Street Names:
      1.   Street Names: All public and private street names within a proposed
subdivision shall be approved by the planning commission. The duplication of an
existing street name within the same area shall not be allowed in a new
subdivision unless the street is an obvious extension of an existing street.
      2.   Street Signs: The subdivider shall provide a minimum of two (2)
street name signs at each street intersection; with the signs located on the
diagonally opposite sides of the intersection. The subdivider shall provide one
street name sign at each "T" intersection. All street signs shall be made in
compliance with the town of Yucca Valley standards and specification.
   H.   On Site Retention: Stormwater runoff from a subdivision shall be
attenuated such that the volume of runoff shall be ten percent (10%) less under
developed conditions than undeveloped conditions. Basins shall be sized such
that the incremental 100-year storm, worst case, shall be retained in the basin
plus a minimum of ten percent (10%), and be retained on site. Basins shall be
designed to drain/infiltrate within seventy two (72) hours.
   I.   Storm Drainage: Stormwater runoff from the subdivision shall be
collected and conveyed by an approved storm drain system.
      1.   A subdivision that lies in the path of existing watercourses or
overflows from existing watercourses, or natural drainage from upstream
properties, shall not be approved unless adequate dedicated rights of way or
improvements are provided as deemed satisfactory by the director.
      2.   When the director determines that a subdivision may cause an
unnatural increase or concentration of surface waters onto downstream property,
the subdivision shall not be approved unless drainage outlets are provided that
will be adequate to render the town and the San Bernardino County flood control
district harmless from any damages caused by the increase or concentration of
water.
      3.   The location, type, and size of watercourses or drainage works, and
all drainage of streets and other drainage works between streets, shall comply
with the "Public Works Standards And Specifications Manual" or as required by
the director.
      4.   When the director determines that drainage rights of way are
necessary, the subdivider shall offer to dedicate upon the tentative, parcel,
or final map of the subdivision the necessary rights of way for the drainage
facilities.
      5.   Where dedication is offered or granted for flood control district
rights of way, the rights of way shall be shown as parcels lettered
alphabetically on the tentative, parcel, or final map. The offer of dedication
or grant shall be made by an appropriate statement on the title sheet of the
parcel map and final map. (Ord. 242, 9-3-2013)
CHAPTER 9.96
IMPROVEMENT PLANS, INSTALLATION, AND SECURITY
SECTION:
9.96.010: Purpose
9.96.020: Improvement Plans
9.96.030: Installation Of Improvements
9.96.040: Improvement Agreements, Lien Agreements, And Securities
9.96.010: PURPOSE:
This chapter provides standards for the preparation and review of improvement
plans, the installation of improvements, and for security to guarantee
improvement installation. (Ord. 242, 9-3-2013)
9.96.020: IMPROVEMENT PLANS:
After the approval of a tentative map and before the construction of any
improvements, the subdivider shall submit plans to the town as follows:
   A.   Preparation And Content: Improvement plans shall be prepared by a
California registered professional engineer. Improvement plan submittals shall
include all of the following information:
      1.   Any drawings, specifications, calculations, design reports, and
other information required by the director;
      2.   Grading, drainage, water quality management plan, erosion and
sediment control, and a stormwater pollution prevention plan (SWPPP), if and
when required by the state of California, for the entire subdivision; and
      3.   The improvement plan/specification checking and construction
inspection fees required by the town fee schedule.
   B.   Submittal Of Plans: Improvement plans shall be submitted to the
director and other appropriate reviewing agencies for review and approval. Upon
the approval of improvement plans in compliance with subsection C, "Review And
Approval", of this section, the subdivider shall also submit to the director a
detailed cost estimate of all improvements, based on guidelines provided by the
town.
      1.   Street And Drainage Plans And Profiles: Plans, profiles, and
specifications of proposed street and drainage improvements shall be submitted
to the town engineer, checked and approved before presentation of the final map
to the council for acceptance. These plans and profiles shall show full details
of the proposed improvements in compliance with town standards.
      2.   Water Systems Plans: Plans, specifications, and all necessary
details of the proposed water system shall be submitted to the director for
review; provided that the supplier has certified that it is willing and able to
supply water upon request. Approval of the water system plans shall be by Hi-
Desert water district (HDWD).
   C.   Review And Approval: Improvement plans shall be reviewed and approved
by the applicable agency within the time limits provided by map act section
66456.2.
   D.   Effect Of Approval: The final approval of improvement plans shall
generally be required before approval of a parcel or final map. The approval of
improvement plans shall not bind the town to accept the improvements nor waive
any defects in the improvements as installed. (Ord. 242, 9-3-2013)
9.96.030: INSTALLATION OF IMPROVEMENTS:
Subdivision improvements required as conditions of approval of a tentative map
in compliance with this chapter (see section
9.91.070 of this article 6) shall be installed as provided by this section.
   A.   Timing Of Improvements: Required improvements shall be constructed or
otherwise installed only after the approval of improvement plans in compliance
with section
9.95.050, "Subdivision Improvement Requirements", of this article 6, and before
the approval of a parcel or final map.
      1.   Improvements are deferred in compliance with section
9.96.040, "Improvement Agreements, Lien Agreements, And Securities", of this
chapter; or
      2.   Improvements are required as conditions on the approval of a
subdivision of four (4) or fewer parcels, in which case construction of the
improvements shall be required:
         a.   When a building permit is issued for development of an affected
parcel; or
         b.   At the time the construction of the improvements is required in
compliance with an agreement between the subdivider and the town, as identified
in section
9.96.040, "Improvement Agreements, Lien Agreements, And Securities", of this
chapter; or
         c.   The time identified in a condition of approval, when the review
authority finds that fulfillment of the construction requirements by that time
is necessary for public health and safety, or because the required construction
is a necessary prerequisite to the orderly development of the surrounding area.
      3.   To avoid breaking up street paving, underground utility or service
lines required to be installed as part of a subdivision and which are planned
to run across or underneath a street or alley right of way shall be installed
before the preparation of subgrade and before the surfacing of any streets or
alleys. In the event that the development of the subdivision requires the
utility company to perform utility construction work, the developer shall pay a
deposit satisfactory to the utility company within sufficient time to allow
construction work to be performed before subgrade preparation. In no event
shall subgrade preparation commence before installation of all necessary
utilities and laterals.
   B.   Inspection Of Improvements: The inspection of the construction and
installation of required subdivision improvements shall occur as follows:
      1.   Supervision: Before starting any work, the contractor engaged by the
subdivider shall designate in writing an authorized representative who shall
have the authority to represent and act for the contractor in contacts with the
town. The designated representative shall be present at the work site at all
times while work is in progress. At times when work is suspended, arrangements
acceptable to the director shall be made for any emergency work that may be
required.
      2.   Inspection Procedures:
         a.   Inspections Required: The agency that has required a specific
action shall make any inspections as it deems necessary to ensure that all
construction complies with the approved improvement plans. Where required by
the agency, the developer shall enter into an agreement with the town to pay
the full cost of any contract inspection services determined to be necessary by
that agency.
         b.   Access To Site And Materials: The agency that has required a
specific action shall have access to the work site at all times during
construction, and shall be furnished with every reasonable facility for
verifying that the materials and workmanship are in compliance with the
approved improvement plans.
         c.   Authority For Approval: The work done and all materials furnished
shall be subject to the inspection and approval of the agency that has required
a specific action. The inspection of the work or materials shall not relieve
the contractor of any obligations to fulfill the work as prescribed.
         d.   Improper Work Or Materials: Work or materials not meeting the
requirements of the approved plans and specifications may be rejected,
regardless of whether the work or materials were previously inspected by the
agency that has required a specific action. In the event that the agency
determines that subdivision improvements are not being constructed as required
by the approved plans and specifications, it shall order the work stopped and
shall inform the contractor of the reasons for stopping work and the corrective
measures necessary to resume the work. Any work done after issuance of a stop
work order shall be a violation of this chapter.
      3.   Notification: The subdivider shall notify the director as part of
condition compliance upon the completion of each stage of construction before
recordation as outlined in this chapter. Further construction may only be
completed if all required actions included in the conditions of approval have
been accomplished and signed off by the agency that has required the action(s).
(Ord. 242, 9-3-2013)
9.96.040: IMPROVEMENT AGREEMENTS, LIEN AGREEMENTS, AND SECURITIES:
   A.   Improvement Agreements: If all required improvements, and inspections
are not satisfactorily completed before a parcel or final map is approved, the
owner(s) of the subdivision shall, before the approval of the parcel or final
map, enter as contractor into an improvement agreement with the council whereby
in consideration of the acceptance by the council of the streets, easements,
and any other land offered for dedication, the contractor agrees to furnish the
equipment, labor, and material necessary to complete the work within the time
specified in the agreement. In order to work within the public right of way,
one must be a licensed contractor in the state of California.
   B.   Amount Of Security Required: To ensure that the work will be completed,
improvement security shall be furnished to guarantee the performance of any act
or improvement agreement in the following amounts and for the following
purposes:
      1.   An amount, not less than one hundred percent (100%) of the total
estimated cost of the improvement or of the act to be performed, conditioned
upon the faithful performance of the required act or improvement agreement.
      2.   An additional amount, not less than fifty percent (50%) nor more
than one hundred percent (100%) of the total estimated cost of the improvement
or the performance of the required act, securing payment to the contractor, to
the subcontractors, and to persons furnishing labor, materials, or equipment to
them for the improvement or the performance of the required act.
      3.   Whenever an entity required to furnish security in compliance with
this section is a California nonprofit corporation, funded by the United States
Of America or one of its agencies, or funded by this state or one of its
agencies, the entity shall not be required to comply with subsections B1 and B2
of this section, if the following conditions are met:
         a.   The contractor installing the improvements has bonded to the
nonprofit corporation and the town as co-obligee the amount of one hundred
percent (100%) of the contract for the faithful performance of the work, and
has further bonded to the nonprofit corporation and the town as co-obligee an
amount of not less than fifty percent (50%) of the contract for the payment of
labor and materials, and those bonds comply with the provisions of this
section.
         b.   All monies payable to the contractor by the nonprofit corporation
are deposited in a depository complying with the provisions of the subdivision
map act 1  and out of which progress payments are conditioned upon:
            (1)   The contractor's certification to the nonprofit corporation
that all labor performed in the work and all materials furnished to and
installed in the work, have been paid for in full to the date of the
certification.
            (2)   The written approval of the nonprofit corporation.
            (3)   The review and approval of progress payment billings by
director. The term "progress payment" as used in this section shall mean
payment made in compliance with the schedule of partial payments agreed upon in
the contract for the work. No less than ten percent (10%) of the total contract
price shall be retained for the sixty (60) days following the filing of the
notice of completion.
            (4)   Final payment to the contractor not being made until sixty
(60) days shall have expired after the filing and recording of the notice of
completion of the work and written acceptance of the work by the town.
         c.   All certifications as to progress payments shall be delivered
through the U.S. mail to the nonprofit corporation.
      4.   An amount as determined by the director, but not more than twenty
five percent (25%) of the total estimated cost of improvements or performance
of the required act necessary for the guarantee and warranty of the improvement
for twelve (12) months following the completion and acceptance, against any
defective work or labor done, or defective materials furnished.
      5.   As part of the obligation guaranteed by the security and in addition
to the face amount of the security, there shall be included costs and
reasonable expenses and fees, including reasonable attorney fees incurred by
the town in successfully enforcing the obligation secured.
   C.   Type Of Security Required:
      1.   The furnishing of security in connection with the performance of any
act or improvement agreement shall be one of the following, at the option of
and subject to the approval of the town council:
         a.   Bond or bonds by one or more duly authorized corporate sureties;
         b.   A deposit, either with the town, responsible bank or trust
company, at the option of the town, of money or negotiable bonds of the kind
approved for securing deposits of public monies; and
         c.   A letter or other instrument of credit from one or more financial
institutions subject to regulation by the state or federal government, and
pledging that the funds necessary to carry out the act or improvement agreement
are on deposit and guaranteed for payment.
      2.   Bonds to secure faithful performance and for the benefit of laborers
and material of any agreement, shall be in substantially the forms as shown in
the subdivision map act 1 . The money, negotiable bond, or instrument of credit
shall be a trust fund to guarantee performance and shall not be subject to
enforcement of a money judgment by any creditors of the depositor until the
obligation secured thereby is performed to the satisfaction of the town. (Ord.
242, 9-3-2013)
 
Notes
1 1. GOV § 66473 et seq.
1 1. GOV § 66473 et seq.
CHAPTER 9.97
SOILS REPORT
SECTION:
9.97.010: Purpose
9.97.020: Preliminary Soils Report
9.97.030: Final Soils Report
9.97.040: Geologic Investigation And Report
9.97.010: PURPOSE:
This chapter provides standards for the preparation and review of soils
reports, in compliance with the map act chapter 4, article 7. (Ord. 242, 9-3-
2013)
9.97.020: PRELIMINARY SOILS REPORT:
A preliminary soils report based upon adequate test borings and prepared by a
registered civil or soils engineer shall be required for every subdivision for
which a final map is required or when required as a condition of development
when soils conditions warrant the investigation and report. The preliminary
soils report shall be submitted with the tentative map application.
   A.   Form Of Report: A preliminary soils report may be divided into two (2)
parts:
      1.   Soils Reconnaissance: The soil reconnaissance shall include a
complete description of the site based on a field investigation of soils
matters. The soils matters reviewed shall include stability, erosion,
settlement, feasibility of construction of the proposed improvements,
description of soils related hazards and problems, and proposed methods of
eliminating or reducing these hazards and problems; and
      2.   Soils Investigation And Report: This investigation and report shall
include field investigation and laboratory tests with detailed information and
recommendations relative to all aspects of grading, filling, and other
earthwork, foundation design, pavement design and subsurface drainage.
         a.   The report shall also recommend any required corrective action
for the purpose of preventing structural damage to subdivision improvements and
the structures to be constructed on the parcels. The report shall also
recommend any special precautions required for erosion control, and the
prevention of sedimentation or damage to off site property.
         b.   If the preliminary soils report indicates the presence of
critically expansive soils or other soils problems which, if not corrected,
would lead to structural defects or environmental impacts, a subsequent soils
investigation of each parcel in the subdivision may be required and shall be
submitted to and approved by the town engineer before approval of a parcel or
final map.
   B.   Preliminary Soils Report Waiver: The preliminary soils report may be
waived if the town engineer determines that existing available information on
the qualities of the soils of the subdivision makes no preliminary analysis
necessary. (Ord. 242, 9-3-2013)
9.97.030: FINAL SOILS REPORT:
A final soils report prepared by a registered civil or soils engineer shall be
required where a preliminary soils report was required, unless the final report
is waived by the town engineer.
   A.   Filing Of Report: The final soils investigation and report shall be
filed with the improvement plans.
   B.   Content Of Report:
      1.   The report shall contain sufficient information to ensure compliance
with all recommendations of the preliminary soils report and the specifications
for the project.
      2.   The report shall also contain information relative to soils
conditions encountered which differed from that described in the preliminary
soils reports, along with any corrections, additions, or modifications not
shown on the approved plans. (Ord. 242, 9-3-2013)
9.97.040: GEOLOGIC INVESTIGATION AND REPORT:
If the town engineer determines that conditions warrant, a geologic
investigation and report may also be required. (Ord. 242, 9-3-2013)
CHAPTER 9.99
DEFINITIONS OF WORDS AND TERMS
SECTION:
9.99.010: Reserved
9.99.020: "A" Definitions
9.99.030: "B" Definitions
9.99.040: "C" Definitions
9.99.050: "D" Definitions
9.99.060: "E" Definitions
9.99.070: "F" Definitions
9.99.080: "G" Definitions
9.99.090: "H" Definitions
9.99.100: "I" Definitions
9.99.110: "J" Definitions
9.99.120: "K" Definitions
9.99.130: "L" Definitions
9.99.140: "M" Definitions
9.99.150: "N" Definitions
9.99.160: "O" Definitions
9.99.170: "P" Definitions
9.99.180: "Q" Definitions
9.99.190: "R" Definitions
9.99.200: "S" Definitions
9.99.210: "T" Definitions
9.99.220: "U" Definitions
9.99.230: "V" Definitions
9.99.240: "W" Definitions
9.99.250: "X" Definitions
9.99.260: "Y" Definitions
9.99.270: "Z" Definitions
9.99.010: RESERVED:
(Ord. 252, 11-18-2014)
9.99.020: "A" DEFINITIONS:
ABANDONED ACTIVITY: A business or activity with no reported sales or activity
for a period of at least one hundred eighty (180) days. Exceptions are
temporary closures for repairs, alterations or similar situations.
ABANDONMENT: A discontinuance of any use with intent to permanently discontinue
such use.
ABATEMENT: The method of reducing the degree and intensity of violations of
this code and related public nuisances.
ABUT OR ADJACENT: Having a common border, boundary, or lot line.
ACCESS: A way or means of physical entry to a property or group of properties,
commercial center, or other group of properties.
ACCESS RIGHTS: The right, claim, title or privilege of access by pedestrians or
vehicles, or a public road or way.
ACCESSIBILITY FOR THE DISABLED: Accessible services, structure or facilities
are those which may be entered and used by individuals despite handicapping
conditions. Accessibility also includes responding to the needs of people with
sight or hearing disabilities, in addition to those with developmental,
activity, manual or mobility impairment, so that they may enjoy the full and
free use of those services, structure or facilities.
ACCESSORY USE: A use of land, building, or portion thereof that is incidental
and subordinate to the primary use of the land or building.
ACRE: A measure of land containing forty three thousand five hundred sixty
(43,560) square feet.
ACRE, GROSS: The entire acreage of a property, parcel or site, calculated to
the centerline of boundary streets.
ACRE, NET: The portion of a property or site not reserved or encumbered for
public use.
ACTION: A decision on a permit application or other land use matter, made by
the approval authority, including, but not limited to, where applicable,
appropriate findings, environmental determination, and conditions of approval.
ADAPTIVE REUSE: The conversion of obsolete, old or historic buildings from
their original or most recent use to a new use. For example, the conversion of
a former hospital or school building to residential use, or the conversion of a
historic single-family home to office use.
ADDITION: A structure added to the original structure after the completion of
the original structure or an extension or increase in floor area or height of a
building or structure.
ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE: An establishment primarily engaged in overall management
and general supervisory functions, such as executive, personnel, finance, legal
and sales activities.
ADULT ORIENTED BUSINESS: See
chapter 9.52 of this title.
ADVERSE IMPACT: A negative consequence for the physical, social or economic
environment resulting from an action or project.
ADVERTISEMENT: The publication of a public hearing notice in a paper of general
circulation, and through other media sources, indicating the time, place and
nature of a public hearing and location where the application and pertinent
documents may be inspected.
ADVERTISING STRUCTURE: Any structure of any kind or character erected or
maintained for advertising purposes, upon which an advertising sign may be
placed.
AFFORDABLE HOUSING: Housing that can be purchased or rented by a household with
very low, low, or moderate income and based on a household's ability to make
monthly payments necessary to obtain housing. Housing is considered affordable
when a household pays less than thirty percent (30%) of its gross monthly
income for housing including utilities.
AGENT OF OWNER: A person authorized to act for the property owner.
AGRICULTURE: The use of land for agricultural purposes, including the growing
of vegetables, fruit, fiber, horticulture, pasturage, the keeping of apiaries
and the necessary accessory uses for storing produce provided that the
operations of any such accessory use shall be secondary to that of normal
agricultural activities. Agriculture does not include animal husbandry or
stockyards.
AIR POLLUTION: Concentrations of substances found in the atmosphere that exceed
naturally occurring quantities and are undesirable or harmful in some way.
AIRPORT OR HELIPORT: Runways and related facilities for the takeoff and landing
of aircraft, including rotary winged and ultralight aircraft. Airports also
include facilities for repair, maintenance and storage of aircraft.
AIRPORT RELATED USES: Those uses which sell products or services directly to
aircraft owners, pilots or support airport operations, or are dependent on
direct access to the airport runway system, or include limited industrial uses
restricted to aviation related products and services.
AISLE: The traveled way by which cars enter and depart parking spaces.
ALLEY: Any public way or thoroughfare less than sixteen feet (16') but not less
than ten feet (10') in width which has been dedicated or deeded to the public
for public use. A public way permanently reserved primarily for vehicular
service access to the rear or side of properties otherwise abutting on a street
and affording only secondary means of access to abutting property.
ALLUVIAL FAN: A geomorphologic feature characterized by a cone or fan shaped
deposit of boulders, gravel and fine sediments that have been eroded from
mountain slopes, transported by flood flows, and then deposited on the valley
floors, and which is subject to flash flooding, high velocity flows, debris
flows, erosion, sediment movement and deposition, and channel migration.
ALQUIST-PRIOLO GEOLOGIC HAZARD ZONES ACT: The purpose of this act is to provide
for public safety in hazardous fault zones. The act requires the delineation of
potential damage called "special studies zones" along known active faults
throughout California. It requires local governments to withhold approval of
construction permits in those zones until geologic investigation has determined
that the site is not threatened by surface displacement from future faulting.
ALTERATION: Any construction, addition, or physical change in the internal
arrangement of rooms or the supporting members of a building or structure, or
change in the appearance of any building or structure.
AMBULANCE SERVICE: Any business substantially devoted to providing emergency
medical care and transportation, including incidental storage and vehicle
maintenance.
AMENITY: Aesthetic or other characteristics of a development that increase its
desirability to the community or its marketability to the public. Amenities
differ from development to development but may include recreational facilities
such as swimming pools or tennis courts, security systems, views, tree
preservation, gardens, or enhanced open space.
AMORTIZATION: A term used in zoning to mean the process by which nonconforming
uses and structures must be discontinued or made to conform to requirements of
the ordinance at the end of a specified period or time. The term itself is a
variation of the real estate term by which borrowers are required to pay back a
debt in regular payments over a fixed period of time, e.g., installment
payments on the principal of a mortgage.
AMUSEMENT ARCADE: A building or part of a building in which five (5) or more
amusement devices occupying more than ten percent (10%) of the public floor
area are displayed and available for use by the public.
AMUSEMENT DEVICE: A player operated electronic or electrical coin operated game
available for use in return for compensation. Examples of amusement devices
include pinball machines and video games.
AMUSEMENT PARK: A permanent outdoor facility with rides for entertainment, as a
merry-go-round, roller coaster, etc.
ANCILLARY USE: A use incidental to and customarily associated with a specific
principal use, located on the same lot or parcel.
ANIMAL HUSBANDRY: Raising of animals or production of animal products, such as
eggs or dairy products, on a commercial basis. Typical uses include grazing,
ranching, dairy farming, and poultry farming.
ANIMAL KEEPING: The keeping of domestic animals cared for and owned by the
occupants of the residential property in accordance with the provisions of
title 10 of this code.
ANIMAL SALES AND SERVICE: A. Animal Boarding: Provision of shelter and care for
domestic animals on a commercial basis. This classification includes activities
such as feeding, exercising, grooming, and incidental medical care.
   B.   Animal Grooming: Provision of bathing and trimming services for
domestic animals on a commercial basis. This classification includes boarding
of domestic animals for a maximum period of forty eight (48) hours per animal.
   C.   Animal Hospitals: Establishments where domestic animals receive medical
and surgical treatment. This classification includes only facilities that are
entirely enclosed and soundproofed. Grooming and temporary (30 days) boarding
of animals is included if incidental to the hospital use.
   D.   Animal Retail Sales: Retail sales and boarding of domestic animals,
provided such activities take place within an entirely enclosed building. This
classification includes grooming if incidental to the retail use.
ANIMALS, DOMESTIC: Animals of the type generally accepted as pets, including
dogs, cats, rabbits, fish, birds, and the like, but not including hoofed
animals, chickens, ducks, geese, peafowl, or the like. Domestic animals shall
not include any animals, birds, or fish maintained for commercial purposes.
ANNEXATION: The incorporation of a land area into an existing city or district
resulting in a change in the boundaries of the city or district.
ANTENNA: See definition of Wireless Communication.
ANTENNA HEIGHT: The overall vertical distance from the base or pad to the
highest point of the antenna mounted on its support structure.
ANTENNA SUPPORT STRUCTURE: A freestanding, guyed or building mounted structure,
mast, pole, tripod, or tower (including appurtenances) utilized for the purpose
of supporting an antenna, antennas or dish intended for airway communication
purposes.
ANTIQUE SHOP: Any premises used for sale or trading of antiques of which eighty
percent (80%) or more are over fifty (50) years old or have collective value.
Antique shops does not include "secondhand store".
APARTMENT: A. One or more rooms of a building used as a place to live, in a
building containing at least one other unit used for the same purpose.
   B.   A separate suite, not owner occupied, which includes kitchen facilities
and is designed for and rented as the home, residence, or sleeping place of one
or more persons living as a single housekeeping unit.
APEX: The point of highest elevation on an alluvial fan, which on undisturbed
fans is generally the point where the major stream that formed the fan emerges
from the mountain front.
APIARY: A facility for the keeping of bees.
APPEAL: A request for review of a decision or determination of any provision of
the development code.
APPEAL AUTHORITY: The agency, board, group or legally designated individual
empowered to review and approve an appeal of an action taken by an approval
authority.
APPLICANT: Owner(s) or lessee(s) of property, or their agent(s), or person(s)
who have contracted to purchase property contingent upon their ability to
acquire the necessary permits under this development code, or the agent(s) of
such persons.
APPROVAL AUTHORITY: The staff member, board, group, agency or other legally
designated individual empowered to review and approve permit applications.
APPROVED PLAN: A final plan that has been approved by the appropriate
jurisdictional authority.
ARCADE: Any business, use, or structure containing six (6) or more coin
operated or token operated amusement machines, or viewing machines. Any use or
business with six (6) or more amusement machines shall be considered an
amusement center or arcade in addition to any other principal or conditional
use of the land. Amusement center or arcade does not include adult motion
picture theaters or adult entertainment facilities.
AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING: A designated AO zone on the flood insurance rate map
(FIRM). The base flood depths range from one to three feet (3'); a clearly
defined channel does not exist; the path of flooding is unpredictable and
indeterminate; and velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is characterized
by ponding or sheet flow.
ARTERIAL STREET: Any street so designated in the Yucca Valley general plan,
existing or proposed.
ARTIST STUDIO: Workspace for artists and artisans, including individuals
practicing one of the fine arts or performing arts, or skilled in an applied
art or craft.
ATTACHED: Any structure that has an interior wall or roof in common with
another structure.
AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINE (ATM): An automated device used by the public to
conduct banking and financial transactions electronically (i.e., withdrawing
cash from, or depositing cash or checks into, a bank, savings, credit union,
credit card or similar account). Does not apply to retail point of sale
transactions within a fully enclosed location. Also refers to machines located
on properties separate from financial institutions.
AUTOMOBILE SALES AND SERVICE: A. General, New: Sale of new automobiles,
motorcycles, recreational vehicles, trucks, and similar vehicles and equipment,
including display, storage, maintenance, repair, and incidental rental of the
vehicles and equipment. May include the sale, installation, and servicing of
related equipment and parts.
   B.   General, Used: Sale of used automobiles, motorcycles, recreational
vehicles, trucks, and similar vehicles and equipment, including display,
storage, maintenance, repair, and incidental rental of the vehicles and
equipment. May include the sale, installation, and servicing of related
equipment and parts.
AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION: A business which provides for the servicing and/or
fueling of motor vehicles, including tube and tire repairs, battery charging,
storage of merchandise and supplies related to the servicing of motor vehicles,
sale of gasoline and other fuel and lubricants, motor vehicle washing, grease
racks, and minor motor vehicle repairs, excluding body and fender work, engine
overhauling and replacement, transmission work and other similar activities.
AUTOMOBILE STORAGE: Lots for the storage and parking of tow away vehicles,
impound yards, and storage lots for automobiles, trucks, buses and recreational
vehicles.
AUTOMOBILE WASHING: Washing, waxing, detailing, or cleaning of automobiles or
similar light vehicles including the use of mechanical automobile washers.
AUTOMOBILE WRECKING (DISMANTLING): The wrecking or dismantling of motor
vehicles or trailers, or the storage of, sale of, or dumping of dismantled or
wrecked motor vehicles or their parts.
AWNING: A rooflike cover that is attached to and extends from the wall of a
building to provide shielding of windows and entrances from inclement weather
or sun. (Ord. 252, 11-18-2014)
9.99.030: "B" DEFINITIONS:
BAKERY: A. Retail Bakery: A retail sales facility which offers bakery products
for direct sale to the public and which, as an accessory use, may include the
preparation of products normally sold in bakeries, for sale off the premises.
   B.   Wholesale Bakery: A bakery or other food store which devotes over
ninety percent (90%) of its gross floor area to the preparation of bakery
products for sale at other locations. Wholesale bakeries may offer bakery
products for direct sale to the public.
BALCONY: A platform that projects from the wall of a building, typically above
the first level, and surrounded by a rail, balustrade, or parapet.
BAR: Premises used primarily for the dispensing of alcoholic beverages by the
drink for on site consumption.
BASE FLOOD: A flood which has a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year (also called the 100-year flood).
BASEMENT: Any floor level below the first story in a building, except that a
floor level in a building having only one floor level shall be classified as a
basement unless such floor level qualifies as a first story as defined herein.
BAZAAR: A benefit sale for a church or nonprofit organization.
BED AND BREAKFAST: A transient lodging establishment primarily engaged in
providing overnight or otherwise temporary lodging for the general public and
may provide meals to the extent otherwise permitted by law.
BEDROOM: A private room for sleeping, separated from other rooms and accessible
to a bathroom without crossing another bedroom.
BERM, LANDSCAPE OR EARTHEN: A mound or embankment of earth or a mound which has
been improved with landscaping.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/36f3714c43e7ed5d919a0c9b7f62d682a315a495/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2656.gif] 
BLOCK: A parcel of land surrounded by public streets, highways, freeways,
railroad right of way, flood control channels, creeks, washes, rivers or
unsubdivided acreage or any combination thereof.
BLOCK FACE: One complete side of a block, usually facing a public street.
BOARDING HOUSE: A dwelling with not more than five (5) guestrooms, with not
more than one person per room, where lodging and meals are provided for
compensation on a weekly or greater basis, not including those facilities
defined as "social care facility".
BORROW PIT: Any place or premises where dirt, soil, sand, gravel or other
material is removed below the grade of surrounding land for any purpose other
than that necessary and incidental to site grading or building construction.
BUFFER AREA: A strip of land established to protect one type of land use from
another land use that is incompatible. A buffer includes plantings, berms, or
other screens which block vision, noise, or other negative impacts of more
intense uses on less intense uses.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/36f3714c43e7ed5d919a0c9b7f62d682a315a495/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2658.gif]
BUILDING: Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls and used or
intended for the shelter, housing or enclosure of any individual, animal,
process, equipment or materials of any kind.
BUILDING, ACCESSORY: A subordinate building, the use of which is incidental to
that of the main building or main use of the land. The use of an accessory
building may be for either a primary or an accessory use allowed by the
appropriate land use district. An accessory building shall be located on either
the same parcel as the main building or main use; or shall be located on a
contiguous abutting parcel that is owned by the same owner who owns the parcel
which has the main building or use. An accessory building shall always exist in
conjunction with and never without a legally established main building or main
use that has the same common owner.
BUILDING AREA/BUILDING ENVELOPE: The net portion of the lot remaining after
deducting all required setbacks from the gross area of the lot.
BUILDING COVERAGE: The percent of lot area which may be covered by all the
footprints of buildings or structures on a lot.
BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance above a reference datum to the highest
point of the coping of a flat roof, or to the deck line of a mansard roof, or
to the average height of the highest gable of a pitched or hipped roof. The
reference datum shall be selected by either of the following, whichever yields
a greater height of building:
   A.   The elevation of the highest adjoining sidewalk or ground surface
within a five foot (5') horizontal distance of the exterior wall of the
building when such sidewalk or ground surface is not more than ten feet (10')
above lowest grade; or
   B.   An elevation ten feet (10') higher than the lowest grade when the
sidewalk or ground surface described in subsection A of this definition is more
than ten feet (10') above lowest grade.
The height of a stepped or terraced building is the maximum height of any
segment of the building.
BUILDING MATERIALS AND SERVICES: Retailing or wholesaling of building supplies
and/or equipment and excluding the general manufacturing of such supplies or
equipment. This classification includes lumberyards, tool and equipment sales
establishments, and building contractor's yards, but excludes establishments
devoted exclusively to retail sales of paint and hardware.
BUILDING PERMIT: Written permission issued by the town for the construction,
repair, alteration, or addition to a structure or building.
BUILDING, PRINCIPAL: A building in which the principal use is conducted.
BUILDING SITE: The ground area of a building together with all open spaces
required by this development code.
BUS STOP SHELTER: A small, roofed structure, usually having three (3) walls,
located near a street and designed primarily for the protection and convenience
of bus passengers.
BUSINESS CENTER: A development in which businesses and structures are designed
as an architecturally integrated and interrelated development. Such design is
independent of the number of structures, lots, or parcels making up the center.
(Ord. 252, 11-18-2014)
9.99.040: "C" DEFINITIONS:
CALIFORNIA ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY ACT (CEQA): A state law requiring state and
local agencies to regulate activities with consideration for environmental
protection. If a proposed activity has the potential for a significant adverse
environmental impact, a negative declaration or environmental impact report
must be prepared and certified before an action is taken on the project.
CAMP, CAMPGROUNDS: A site used or intended for use for temporary occupancy by
campers traveling by automobiles or otherwise which may include individual
campsites including a typical 12 person or smaller tent, fire ring or fire pit,
picnic table, camping chairs, barbeque equipment and other common family
camping gear, but where utility hookups for recreational vehicles are not
provided. See also definition of Recreational Vehicle Park. Camps or
campgrounds do not include glamping, tee pees, hotels, motels, glamping, or
other similar overnight stay facilities.
CANOPY: A permanent rooflike structure constructed of durable material
extending from part or all of a building face.
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT: When pertaining to government, the acquisition of real
property or equipment, or the construction of major projects.
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM: A timetable or schedule for all future capital
improvements to be carried out during a specific period and listed in order of
priority, together with cost estimates and the anticipated means and sources of
financing each project.
CARE USES:
   A.   Child Daycare: See subsection C, "Daycare, Child", of this definition.
   B.   Daycare, Adult: A state licensed facility that provides nonmedical care
and supervision for adult clients for periods of less than twenty four (24)
hours for any client.
   C.   Daycare, Child:
      1. Childcare Home, Small Family (8 Or Fewer Children): Daycare facilities
located in single- family dwellings where an occupant of the dwelling provides
care and supervision for eight (8) or fewer children. Children under the age of
ten (10) years who reside in the dwelling count as children served by the
daycare facility. Such use must comply with all applicable state regulations,
and specifically those set forth in the California Health And Safety Code
commencing with section 1596.70, to be considered a small family childcare
home.
      2. Childcare Home, Large Family (9 To 14 Children): Daycare facilities
located in single- family dwellings where an occupant of the dwelling provides
care and supervision for nine (9) to fourteen (14) children. Children under the
age of ten (10) years who reside in the dwelling count as children served by
the daycare facility. Such use must comply with all applicable state
regulations, and specifically those set forth in the California Health And
Safety Code commencing with section 1596.70, to be considered a large family
childcare home.
   D.   Child Daycare, General: See subsection E, "Daycare, General", of this
definition for facilities serving fifteen (15) or more children.
   E.   Daycare, General: Establishments that provide nonmedical care for
fifteen (15) or more persons on a less than a twenty four (24) hour basis,
including nursery schools, preschools, and daycare centers for children or
adults. Such use must comply with all applicable state regulations, and
specifically those set forth in the California Health And Safety Code
commencing with section 1596.70, to be considered a general daycare facility.
General daycare establishments may be accessory to an industrial, commercial or
institutional use, as may be allowed by article 2 of this title.
CARETAKER HOUSING: Separate living quarters, usually including kitchen
facilities, for employees living on site, and accessory to the primary use.
CARNIVAL: See definition of Circuses And Carnivals.
CARPORT: A permanent roofed structure with not more than two (2) completely
enclosed sides used or intended to be used for vehicle storage for the
occupants of the premises.
CATERING SERVICES: Preparation and delivery of food and beverages for off site
consumption without provision for on site pick up or consumption.
CEMETERY: A spatially defined area where the remains of deceased people or
animals are buried or are otherwise interred. The term "cemetery" implies that
the land is specifically designated as a burial ground.
   A.   Public Cemetery: A public cemetery is one used by the general
community, a neighborhood, or a church.
   B.   Private Cemetery: A private cemetery is one used only by a family or a
small portion of the community.
CENTERLINE, STREET: The right of way centerline as established by the county
surveyor, the city engineer of the California department of transportation
(Caltrans). If no such centerline has been established or in the event the
foregoing definition is not applicable, the approval authority shall designate
the centerline.
CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY: A permit issued by the planning and building and
safety divisions prior to occupancy of a structure to assure that the structure
is ready for occupancy with all defects corrected and all construction debris
removed and the site graded to final grade. Additionally, all on site amenities
(i.e., paving, landscaping, etc.) shall be in place prior to the issuance of
the permit.
CERTIFIED FARMERS' MARKET: A location, approved by the agricultural
commissioner of San Bernardino County, where agricultural products are sold by
producers or certified producers directly to consumers.
CHANGE OF USE: A conversion of use that substantially differs from the previous
use of a building or property.
CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION: An organization formed for the purpose of relegating
resources to such needy persons.
CHARITY: An effort or act intended to relieve that plight of individuals or
groups of people in need of assistance who do not have the ability or resources
to attend to those needs.
CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING/PROCESSING: An industrial process whereby substances are
produced from or converted into other substances. In the process, the
composition and properties of the starting material are altered.
CHURCH (PLACE OF RELIGIOUS WORSHIP/ASSEMBLY): An institution that people
regularly attend to participate in or hold religious services, meetings, and
other activities. The term "church" shall not carry a secular connotation and
shall include buildings in which the religious services of any denomination are
held. A place where religious worship is held. This definition includes
functionally related internal facilities (i.e., kitchens, multipurpose rooms,
storage, etc.) and residences for clergy. Associated uses (i.e., daycare
centers, full time or part time schools, or emergency housing) may be allowed
but require separate discretionary approvals pursuant to the requirements of
this development code.
CIRCUSES AND CARNIVALS: A temporary attraction including, but not limited to,
games, eating and drinking facilities, live entertainment (but excluding adult
entertainment facilities), animal exhibits, souvenir sales and rides.
CLEAR SIGHT TRIANGLE: Triangular shaped portion of land established at a street
intersection or driveway in which no signs are placed in a manner as to limit
or obstruct the sight distance of motorists entering or leaving the
intersection or driveway.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/36f3714c43e7ed5d919a0c9b7f62d682a315a495/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2660.gif] 
CLINIC: An establishment where patients, who are not lodged overnight, are
admitted for examination and treatment by one or more of a group of physicians,
dentists, psychologists, or social workers, practicing together or
individually.
CLUBS AND LODGES (Public Or Private): Meeting, recreational, or social
facilities of a private or nonprofit organization primarily for use by members
or their guests, excluding "commercial recreation and entertainment". This
classification includes union halls, social clubs and youth center.
CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT: Development in which a number of dwelling units are placed
in closer proximity than usual, or are attached, with the purpose of retaining
an open space area.
CLUSTERED SUBDIVISION: A subdivision development in which building lots are
sized to conform to the "footprint" of the structures and sited closer together
than conventional development, usually in groups or clusters, provided that the
total density does not exceed that which is permitted under conventional zoning
and subdivision regulations. The additional land that remains undeveloped is
preserved as open space and recreation land. Private development easements
around the structures are permitted for inclusion of private landscaping,
pools, spas, yards, etc.
COLLOCATED: The locating of wireless telecommunications equipment from more
than one provider on a single wireless tower.
COMMERCIAL: A land use classification that permits facilities for the buying
and selling of commodities and services.
COMMERCIAL COMPLEX: A group of three (3) or more commercial uses on a single
parcel or contiguous parcels which function as a common commercial area
including those which utilize common off street parking or access.
COMMERCIAL RECREATION AND ENTERTAINMENT: This classification includes, but is
not limited to, theaters, sports stadiums and arenas, amusement parks, bowling
alleys, billiard parlors, ice/roller skating rinks, golf courses, miniature
golf courses, model courses, shooting galleries, tennis/racquetball courts,
amusement centers or arcades and health/fitness clubs. Commercial recreation
and entertainment does not include "adult entertainment facilities".
COMMERCIAL VEHICLE: A vehicle customarily used as part of a business for the
transportation of goods or people.
COMMISSION: The planning commission of the town of Yucca Valley.
COMMON OPEN SPACE: Land within or serving as a part of a development, not
individually owned or dedicated for public use, which is designed and intended
for the common use or enjoyment of the residents of the development and may
include such complementary structures and improvements as are necessary and
appropriate.
COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT BUILDING: A building housing electrical and mechanical
equipment and the administrative staff necessary for the conduct of a public
communications business and open only to personnel necessary for the operation
and maintenance of such equipment and administrative functions.
COMMUNITY APARTMENT: A development in which an undivided interest in the land
is coupled with the right of exclusive occupancy of an apartment located on the
land.
COMMUNITY CARE FACILITY: Consistent with Health And Safety Code (section
1267.8), the intermediate care facility shall include provisions for
developmentally disabled habilitative nursing or congregated living.
COMMUNITY CENTER: A building used for recreational, social, educational and
cultural activities, open to the public or a designated part of the public,
usually owned and operated by a public or nonprofit group or agency. A building
or structure owned and operated by a governmental agency used to provide a
governmental service to the public.
COMMUNITY NOISE EQUIVALENT LEVEL (CNEL): A twenty four (24) hour energy
equivalent level derived from a variety of single noise events, with weighing
factors of five (5) and ten (10) dBA applied to the evening (7:00 P.M. to 10:00
P.M.) and nighttime (10:00 P.M. to 7:00 A.M.) periods, respectively, to allow
for the greater sensitivity to noise during those hours.
COMPLETE APPLICATION: An application form completed as specified by the rules
of the governmental agency and all required accompanying documents.
COMPOSITE DEVELOPMENT PLAN: A map or plan on file with the building and safety
division that reflects additional information related to the development of
lots created by a final or parcel map recorded after March 1, 1986. Notes on
this plan or map are for informational purposes and indicate conditions and
criteria that exist on the property that were known and identified as of the
date of the recordation of the final or parcel map. Authority for this plan is
derived from California Government Code section 66434.2.
CONCERTS, OPEN AIR THEATERS: See definition of Sports Or Entertainment
Assembly.
CONDITIONAL USE: A use permitted in a particular zoning district upon showing
that such use will comply with all the conditions and standards as specified in
the zoning ordinance and authorized by the approval authority.
CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT: Uses which may be permitted, subject to approval of a
conditional use permit. Generally, conditional uses are those uses which have
the potential objectionable operating characteristics or appearance which may
be out of character in a particular zoning district, either of which may make
those uses suitable or unsuitable for a particular site or location.
CONDOMINIUM PROJECT: A common interest development consisting of condominiums.
A condominium consists of an undivided interest in common in a portion of real
property coupled with a separate interest in space called a unit, the
boundaries of which are described on a recorded condominium plan in sufficient
detail to locate all boundaries thereof. The area within these boundaries may
be filled with air, water, or earth, or any combination thereof, and need not
be physically attached to land except by easement for access, and if necessary,
support.
CONGREGATE CARE FACILITY: See definition of Residential Care Facilities
(Congregate Care).
CONSERVATION: The planned management, protection and use of natural resources
in order to prevent the wasteful exploitation, destruction or neglect of these
resources.
CONSISTENT: Free from variation or contradiction.
CONSTRUCTION COMMENCEMENT: The start of construction of substantial site and
structural improvements after a building permit has been issued, subject to
determination by the building official.
CONSTRUCTION OFFICE: A temporary structure or a portion on an existing
structure used as the primary management location of construction activities.
CONTIGUOUS PROPERTY: Those properties which touch property lines of any parcel,
including those properties which touch said property lines of a subject parcel
when such lines are projected across public or private rights of way,
easements, roads, or streets.
CONVALESCENT HOME/SKILLED NURSING FACILITY: A facility licensed by the state
department of public health, the state department of social welfare, or the
county health department, which provides bed and ambulatory care for patients
with postoperative convalescent, chronically ill, or dietary problems, and
persons aged or infirmed unable to care for themselves; but not including
substance abusers or persons with mental or contagious diseases or afflictions.
CONVENIENCE STORE: Any retail establishment offering for sale prepackaged food
products, household items, and other goods commonly associated with same and
having a gross floor area of less than five thousand (5,000) square feet.
CONVERSION: Changing the original use or purpose of a building to different use
or purpose.
COUNCIL: The town council composed of the mayor and council members of the town
of Yucca Valley.
COUNTY: The county of San Bernardino, hereinafter referred to as county.
COURT: An open, unoccupied space, other than a yard, on the same lot with a
building and bounded on two (2) or more sides by the wall of a building.
   A.   Court, Inner: An open area, unobstructed from the ground to the sky,
which is bounded on more than three (3) sides by the exterior walls of one or
more buildings.
   B.   Court, Outer: An open area, unobstructed from the ground to the sky,
which is bounded on not more than three (3) sides by the exterior walls of one
or more buildings.
COVENANTS, CONDITIONS, AND RESTRICTIONS (CC&Rs): A term used to describe
restrictive limitations that may be placed on property and its use, and which
usually are made a condition of holding title or lease.
CUL-DE-SAC: The turnaround at the end of a dead end street.
CULTURAL INSTITUTIONS: Institutions displaying or preserving objects of
interest in one or more of the arts or sciences. This classification generally
includes libraries, museums, and art galleries where displayed objects are not
intended for sale.
CURB CUT: The lowering of a curb to permit access by vehicles, wheelchairs,
carts, and pedestrians. (Ord. 252, 11-18-2014; amd. Ord. 296, - - )
9.99.050: "D" DEFINITIONS:
DAYS: Shall always be consecutive calendar days unless otherwise stated.
DAYS, BUSINESS: Any day a specified office, department or other agency is open
to the public or normal business. This term shall normally exclude all
Saturdays, Sundays, and any holiday that is recognized and observed by the
specified office, department or agency.
DEDICATION: The turning over by an owner or developer of private land for
public use, and the acceptance of land for such use by the governmental agency
having jurisdiction over the public function for which it will be used.
Dedications for roads, parks, school sites, or other public uses often are made
conditions for approval of a development by the town.
DENSITY: The number of dwelling units, households or housing structures per
unit of land.
DENSITY BONUS: An increase in the number of dwelling units over the otherwise
maximum allowable residential density.
DENSITY, NET: The number of dwelling units per acre of developable land
exclusive of public and private streets, greenways, drainage, power
transmission line easements, or other public and semipublic uses.
DENSITY TRANSFER: The transfer of all or part of the permitted density from one
parcel to another parcel.
DESTINATION RETAIL: Retail businesses that generate a special purpose trip and
that do not necessarily benefit from a high volume pedestrian location.
DETACHED: Any building or structure that does not have a wall or roof in common
with any other building or structure.
DEVELOPABLE LAND: Land that is suitable as a location for structures and that
can be developed free of hazards to, disruption of, or significant impact on
natural resource areas.
DEVELOPER: The legal or beneficial owner or owners of property to be developed
or being developed, including the holder of an option or contract to purchase
or other person(s) having enforceable proprietary interests in such property.
DEVELOPMENT: The placement or erection of any solid material or structure;
discharge or disposal of any dredged material or any gaseous liquid, solid or
thermal waste; grading, removing, dredging, mining or extraction of any soil or
materials; change in the density or intensity of use of land, including lot
splits, except where the land division is brought about in connection with the
purchase of such land by a public agency for public recreational use; change in
the intensity or use of water, or of access thereto; construction;
reconstruction, demolition, or alteration of the size of any structure
including any facility of any private, public or municipal utility; and the
removal of any major vegetation. A project, as defined in Government Code
section 65931, is included in this definition.
   A.   Any subdivision pursuant to the subdivision map act;
   B.   The division of a parcel of land into two (2) or more parcels;
   C.   The construction, reconstruction, conversion, structural alteration,
relocation or enlargement of any structure;
   D.   Any mining, excavation, landfill or grading;
   E.   Any use or extension of the use of land; or
   F.   Any other division of land, including lot splits, except where the land
division is brought about in connection with the purchase of the land by a
public agency for public recreational use.
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT: An agreement entered into between the town of Yucca
Valley and a contracting party which relates to a specific real property,
subject to the terms of the agreement.
DEVELOPMENT CODE: A unified text incorporating areas of regulation including
administration, development review, residential districts, commercial and
office districts, industrial districts, other districts, overlay districts,
general standards, and other related topics.
DEVELOPMENT PLAN (PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT): A detailed, comprehensive plan of
development for a planned development. This development unit plan applies
limits and parameters for development derived from a development suitability
analysis to a specific development scheme. Development plans shall include a
detailed description of the proposed development and its effects including, but
not limited to, a written text, diagrams or maps describing the program for
development and the functional arrangement of structures and uses, the effect
of such arrangement upon the physical characteristics of the site, available
public services, the capacity of existing circulation systems and the existing
and planned land use of adjacent properties. It includes a dimensioned site
plan showing the location of all structures and lots in sufficient detail to
permit recordation and the preparation of construction drawings.
DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE: A committee consisting of representatives from
various agencies whose function is to review and make recommendations on
development proposals.
DEVELOPMENT RIGHTS: The right to develop land by a landowner who maintains fee
simple ownership over the land or by a party other than the owner who has
obtained the rights to develop.
DEVIATIONS: Authorized variances from required distances, setbacks, areas or
physical improvements.
DISABILITY: A physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or
more of the major life activities of individuals, there is a record of such an
impairment, or the individual is regarded as having such an impairment. It is
the intent of this definition to substantially comply with the term
"disability" as defined by the Americans with disabilities act of 1990, as may
be amended from time to time.
DISCRETIONARY DECISION: An action taken by a governmental agency that calls for
the exercise of judgment in deciding whether to approve and/or how to carry out
a project.
DISTRICT: A zone or geographic area within the municipality within which
certain zoning or development regulations apply.
DORMITORY: A structure intended principally for sleeping accommodations where
no individual kitchen facilities are provided, and where such structure is
related to an educational or public institution or is maintained and operated
by a recognized nonprofit welfare organization.
DRAINAGE: Surface water runoff; the removal of surface water or groundwater
from land by drains, grading or other means, which include runoff controls to
minimize erosion and sedimentation during and after construction or
development.
DRAINAGE AREA: A geographical area, formed by topography, which collects and
changes surface runoff from precipitation to natural or manmade channels.
DRIVE-THROUGH: Any portion of a building or development intended to allow
service direct from the building through a window, kiosk, or automated delivery
system to vehicle occupants. Such facilities include, but are not limited to,
food service windows, ready tellers, or similar service systems.
DRIVE-THROUGH RESTAURANT: See definition of Restaurant, Drive- Through.
DRIVEWAY: A private roadway for the exclusive use of the occupants of a
property and their guests or patrons, and which provides vehicular access to
parking spaces, garages, dwellings or other structures on a site.
DUPLEX: A detached building under single ownership that is designed for
occupation as the residence of two (2) families living independently of each
other.
DWELLING: A structure or portion thereof designed for residential occupancy,
not including hotels or motels.
DWELLING, ATTACHED: A dwelling joined to one or more other dwellings by common
vertical walls.
DWELLING, DETACHED: A dwelling that is not attached to any other dwelling by
any physical means.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE: A building on a single lot containing two (2) or more
dwelling units, offered for rent or lease on a monthly (or longer) basis, each
of which is totally separated from the other by a wall extending from ground to
roof or a ceiling and floor, extending from exterior wall to exterior wall,
except for a common stairwall exterior to both (or multiple) dwelling units.
DWELLING, TOWNHOUSE: A single-family dwelling in a row of at least three (3)
such units in which each unit has its own front and rear access to the outside,
no unit is located over another unit, and each unit is separated from any other
unit by one or more vertical common fire resistant walls.
DWELLING UNIT: A room or group of rooms (including sleeping, eating, cooking,
and sanitation facilities), but not more than one kitchen, which constitutes an
independent housekeeping unit, occupied or intended for occupancy by one family
on a long term basis.
DWELLING UNIT, EFFICIENCY: A dwelling unit consisting of not more than one
habitable room together with kitchen or kitchenette and sanitary facilities.
(Ord. 252, 11-18-2014)
9.99.060: "E" DEFINITIONS:
EASEMENT: A grant of one or more property rights by the property owner for use
by the public, a corporation or another person or entity.
EASEMENT, CONSERVATION: A tool for acquiring open space with less than full fee
purchase, whereby a public agency buys or is granted only certain specific
rights from the landowner. These may be positive rights (providing the public
with the opportunity to hunt, fish, hike, or ride over the land), or they may
be restrictive rights (limiting the uses to which the landowner may devote the
land to in the future).
EATING AND DRINKING ESTABLISHMENTS: Businesses serving prepared food or
beverages for consumption on or off the premises. Also refer to the definition
of Food And Beverage Sales. Related eating and drinking establishment terms are
defined as follows:
   A.   Accessory Food Service: An establishment that sells food and/or
beverages as an accessory use in a retail, office, or institutional structure
and that does not change the character of the primary use.
   B.   Bars, Lounges, Nightclubs, Taverns (Includes Independent Or Accessory
Establishments): Any establishment that sells or serves alcoholic beverages for
consumption on the premises and is holding or applying for a public premises
license from ABC and in which persons under twenty one (21) years of age are
restricted from the premises. References to the establishment shall include any
immediately adjacent area that is owned, leased, or rented, or controlled by
the licensee.
   C.   Fast Food: A restaurant which supplies food and beverages primarily in
disposable containers and which is characterized by high automobile
accessibility, self-service and short stays by customers.
   D.   Outdoor Dining: A dining area with seats and/or tables located outdoors
of a sit down restaurant, fast food, or other food service establishment.
Outdoor dining is located entirely outside the walls of the contiguous
structure or enclosed on one or two (2) sides by the walls of the structure
with or without a solid roof cover.
      1. Limited: Outdoor dining area encompassing up to eight hundred (800)
square feet of area, inclusive.
      2. General: Outdoor dining area encompassing more than eight hundred
(800) square feet of area.
   E.   Restaurant: An establishment engaged in the business of selling food
and beverages, including alcoholic beverages, prepared on site for primarily on
site consumption. Food and beverages are served to the customer at a fixed
location (i.e., booth, counter, or table). Food and beverages are ordered from
individual menus. Customers typically pay for food and beverages after service
and/or consumption. The sale or service of sandwiches, whether prepared in the
kitchen or made elsewhere and heated up on the premises, or snack foods, shall
not constitute a sit down restaurant. For off site consumption, see definition
of Food And Beverage Sales.
   F.   Takeout Service: An establishment that offers a limited variety of food
or beverages. Transactions are sales for off site consumption. Customers are
served either at a counter or service window. Incidental seating (less than 250
square feet of seating area) may be provided for limited on site consumption of
food or beverages. Typical uses include bakeries, coffee stores, ice cream and
frozen dessert stores, delivery-only pizza establishments, small delicatessens,
and similar establishments.
EAVES: The projecting overhang at the lower edge of a roof.
EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION: A college or university, supported wholly or in part
by public funds or giving general academic instruction equivalent to the
standards prescribed by the state board of education.
ELEVATION: A vertical distance above or below a fixed reference level. A
dimensioned drawing of the front, rear or side of a building showing features
such as windows, doors and relationship of grade to floor level.
EMERGENCY SHELTER: A facility that provides immediate and short term housing
and supplemental services. Shelters come in many sizes, but an optimum size is
considered to be twenty (20) to forty (40) beds. Supplemental services may
include food, counseling, and access to other social programs.
EMISSION: A discharge of pollutants in the air or water.
ENCROACHMENT: The placement or construction of a fence, building, structure or
other improvement on another's property, on a public right of way or into a
required setback.
ENTERTAINMENT, LIVE: A musical, theatrical, dance, cabaret, or comedy act
performed by one or more persons. Any form of dancing by patrons or guests at
an eating and drinking establishment or bar is live entertainment. Live
entertainment does not include the term "adult entertainment facility" or
"adult entertainment establishment".
ENVIRONMENT: The physical conditions which exist within the area which will be
affected by a proposed project, including land, air, water, mineral, flora,
fauna, noise, and objects of historic or aesthetic significance.
ENVIRONMENTAL CONSTRAINTS: Environmental factors which limit or inhibit the
potential for land development, including, but not limited to, flood hazards,
seismic hazards, air quality and water supply.
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT: Projected long or short term effects (adverse or
beneficial) which a development project or plan may have on the natural and
built environment if the project is carried out.
EQUESTRIAN FACILITY: A commercial facility for horses, donkeys, and/or mules.
Examples include horse ranches, boarding stables, riding schools and academies,
horse exhibition facilities (for shows or other competitive events), and barns,
stables, corrals and paddocks accessory and incidental to these uses. Does not
include the simple pasturing of horses, donkeys, and/or mules, which is instead
included in "animal keeping". Does not include rodeo arenas, which are under
"sports or entertainment assembly".
EQUIPMENT SALES, SERVICES AND RENTALS: Sales, services or rentals of equipment
including, but not limited to, construction equipment and agricultural
equipment.
EROSION: The wearing away of the ground surface as a result of the movement of
wind or water or machine.
EROSION, ACCELERATED: Erosion caused by a human induced alteration of the
vegetation, land surface, topography, or runoff pattern. Evidence of
accelerated erosion is often indicated by exposed soils, gullies, rills,
sediment deposits, or slope failures caused by human activities.
EROSION HAZARD: The susceptibility of a site to erode, based on condition of
slope, rock type, soil, and other site factors. Hazard may be determined based
on a site specific investigation, and such soil disturbance may be caused by
wind, water or machine.
EXCAVATION: Removal or recovery by any means of soil, rock, minerals, mineral
substances, or organic substances, other than vegetation.
EXOTIC ANIMAL: Any warm or cold blooded animal of the biological family
Animalia, generally considered as wild, exotic, dangerous, venomous or not
normally domesticated.
EXPANSION: The use of additional land or floor area.
EXTENSION: An increase in the amount of time that a permit or approval may be
valid. (Ord. 252, 11-18-2014)
9.99.070: "F" DEFINITIONS:
FACADE: The main face or front of the building.
FAIR OR FESTIVAL: Temporary gathering consisting of, but not limited to,
carnival, a competitive exhibition of farm, new household and manufactured
products, including art and craft items, with various amusements, which may
include carnival rides and games, and educational displays.
FAMILY: One or more persons living together as a single nonprofit housekeeping
unit and sharing common living, sleeping, cooking and eating facilities.
Members of a “family” need not be related by blood but are distinguished from a
group occupying a hotel, club, fraternity or sorority house, residential
boarding house, or residential care or social service facility.
FARMERS' MARKETS: A public market at which farmers and other vendors sell
produce directly to consumers. Farmers' markets includes certified farmers'
markets (see definition for Certified Farmers' Market). Produce at farmers'
markets may include produce purchased from wholesalers and retailers. Farmers'
markets shall be composed at a minimum of seventy-five (75%) business activity
of fresh produce, artisan cheeses, hand harvested honey, flowers, and other
fresh, small batch foodstuffs. The remaining twenty-five (25%) business
activity at farmers' markets may be composed of the sale of art, handcrafts,
and other handmade goods.
FAST FOOD: See also definition of Eating And Drinking Establishments.
FEASIBLE: Capable of being done, executed or managed successfully from the
standpoint of the physical and/or financial abilities of the implementer(s).
FENCE: An exterior physical barrier erected to enclose, screen or separate
areas.
FINANCIAL SERVICES: A commercial land use involved with the exchange of money
and services related to the financial system.
FINDINGS: A set of conclusions which are required before specified permits,
land use applications, deviations, ordinance changes or other entitlements may
be granted.
FISCAL IMPACT ANALYSIS: An analysis of the costs and revenues associated with
impacts to a public agency of a specific development proposal.
FITNESS CENTER: Facilities equipped and used for training and conditioning.
FLAG: The symbol, insignia or display of a governmental or nonprofit
organization when not displayed in connection with a commercial promotion or
used as an advertising mechanism.
FLOOD, FLOODING OR FLOODWATER: A general and temporary condition of partial or
complete inundation of normally dry land areas from the overflow of inland
waters; the unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any
source.
FLOOD HAZARD AREA, SPECIAL (SFHA): An area having special flood risk shown on
an FHBM or FIRM as zone A, AO or AE.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): The official map on which the federal
emergency management agency or federal insurance administration has delineated
both the areas of special flood hazards and the risk premium zones applicable
to the community.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: The official report provided by the federal insurance
administration that includes flood profiles, the flood insurance rate map, the
flood boundary and floodway map and the water surface elevation of the base
flood.
FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR: The individual appointed to administer and enforce
the floodplain management regulations.
FLOODPLAIN ENCROACHMENT: The advance or infringement of uses, plant growth,
fill, excavation, buildings, permanent structures or development into a
floodplain which may impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT: The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including, but not limited
to, emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations and open space plans.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS: Title 8,
chapter 8.04 of this code and other zoning ordinances, subdivision regulations,
building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances (such as grading
and erosion control) and other applications of police power which control
development in flood prone areas. This term describes federal, state or local
regulations in any combination thereof which provide standards for preventing
and reducing flood loss and damage.
FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD PRONE AREA: Any land area susceptible to being inundated by
water from any sources.
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
FLOODWAY: The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot (1').
Also referred to as regulatory floodway.
FLOODWAY FRINGE: That area of the floodplain on either side of the regulatory
floodway where encroachment may be permitted.
FLOOR AREA, GROSS: The total enclosed area of all floors of a building,
measured to the outside face of the structural members and exterior walls,
including halls, stairways, mechanical equipment rooms, and habitable
basements.
FLOOR AREA, NET: The total of all floor areas of a building, excluding
stairwells and elevator shafts, equipment rooms, interior vehicular parking or
loading, and all floors below the first or ground floor, except when used or
intended to be used for human habitation.
FLOOR AREA RATIO (FAR): The gross floor area of a building(s) on a lot divided
by the area of the lot. For example, on a site with ten thousand (10,000) gross
square feet of land area, a floor area ratio of 1.0 will allow a maximum of ten
thousand (10,000) square feet of building floor area to be built. Similarly, a
FAR of 1.5 would allow fifteen thousand (15,000) square feet of floor area; a
FAR of 2.0 would allow twenty thousand (20,000) square feet; and a FAR of 2.5
would allow twenty five thousand (25,000) square feet; and a FAR of 0.5 would
allow only five thousand (5,000) square feet to be built. FARs shall be applied
on a parcel by parcel basis as opposed to an average FAR for an entire land use
or zoning district.
FOOD AND BEVERAGE SALES: Retail sales of food and beverages for off site
preparation and consumption. Typical uses include groceries, liquor stores and
delicatessens. Establishments at which twenty percent (20%) or more of the
floor area is used for the sale of prepared food for on site or takeout
consumption shall be classified as eating and drinking establishments. See also
definition of Eating And Drinking Establishments.
FOOTPRINT, BUILDING: The outline of a building at all of those points where it
meets the ground.
FORTUNE TELLING: A use involving the foretelling of the future in exchange for
financial or other valuable consideration.
FRONT WALL: The nearest wall of a structure to the street upon which the
structure faces, but excluding cornices, canopies, eaves, or any other
architectural embellishment.
FRONTAGE: The side of a lot abutting a street (the front lot line), except the
side of a corner lot (the street side lot line). On corner lots the narrowest
frontage shall be considered the front of the lot. The frontage of a
nonrectangular lot or a lot located on a cul-de-sac, curved street, or dead end
street with a curved turnaround shall be measured as the chord drawn between
the terminuses of the side property lines at their intersection with the street
right of way.
FUNERAL SERVICES: Establishments primarily engaged in the preparation of the
deceased for burial or cremation, the temporary display of the deceased,
cremations and rituals connected with the burial or cremation.(Ord. 252, 11-18-
2014; amd. Ord. 296, - - ; Ord. 326, 2-4-2025)
9.99.080: "G" DEFINITIONS:
GARAGE: An enclosed accessory building, either attached or detached, used for
the private parking or temporary storage of motor vehicles and recreational
vehicles for the occupants of the premises.
GARAGE, PRIVATE: A garage used exclusively for the parking and storage of
vehicles owned by residents of nearby dwelling units and their guests, which is
not operated as a commercial enterprise and is not available to the general
public and which is owned, leased or cooperatively operated by such residents.
GATED COMMUNITY: A residential development enclosed by a perimeter wall and
secured at each entry point with a gate, typically accessible only to the
residents of the development and their guests.
GENERAL PLAN: The town of Yucca Valley general plan as adopted by the town
council.
GLARE: The effect produced by brightness sufficient to cause annoyance,
discomfort or loss of visibility.
GOLF COURSE: Golf courses, and accessory facilities and uses including:
clubhouses with bar and restaurant, locker and shower facilities; driving
ranges; "pro shops" for on site sales of golfing equipment; and golf cart
storage and sales facilities.
GOVERNING BODY: The local governing unit empowered to adopt and implement
regulations to provide for the public health, safety and general welfare of its
citizenry.
GOVERNMENT AGENCY: Any department, commission, independent agency, or
instrumentality of the United States, or a state, county, incorporated local
municipality, authority, district, or any other agency so recognized as a
governmental unit.
GOVERNMENT FACILITY: Offices and support facilities for any seat of any
federal, state, county, or town agency, or special district, providing services
to the general population.
GRADE: The elevation of the surface of the ground.
GRADE, ADJACENT GROUND ELEVATION: The lowest point of elevation of the finished
surface of the ground, paving or sidewalk within the area between the building
and the property line.
GRADE, FINISHED: The elevation of the surface of the ground after grading,
construction, or landscaping activities.
GRADE, NATURAL: The elevation of the surface of the ground before the ground
elevation is altered by any grading, construction, or landscaping activities.
GRADING: Any stripping, cutting, filling, or stockpiling of earth or land,
including the land in its cut or filled condition, to create new grades.
GRADING, MASS: A grading technique in which all lots, building pads and streets
are graded over the entire site area resulting in the disruption of the
majority of the on site natural grade and vegetation, and often resulting in,
but not required to result in successive pad/terrace configuration.
GREENHOUSE: A building whose roof and sides are made largely of transparent or
translucent material used for the cultivation of plants.
GROUND FLOOR: The first floor of a building other than a cellar or basement.
GROUP HOME: Any residential structure or unit, whether operated by an
individual for profit or by a nonprofit entity, which is not licensed by the
state of California. For the purposes of this development code, group home is a
distinct category from either "transitional housing", "supportive housing",
"community care facility" or residential care facility, each of which is
defined separately herein.
GUEST HOUSE/QUARTERS: Any structure, whether attached to or detached from the
main residence on a residential lot, or a lot used for residential purposes,
containing living quarters for the use by temporary guests of the residents of
the main residential structure on the same premises.
GYMNASIUM: A recreational facility providing indoor athletic activities and
events. (Ord. 252, 11-18-2014)
9.99.090: "H" DEFINITIONS:
HABITABLE STRUCTURE: A structure which includes habitable space for living,
sleeping, eating or cooking. Bathrooms, toilet compartments, closets, halls,
storage or utility space, and similar areas are not considered habitable space.
HALF STORY: A story under a gable, hip or gambrel roof, plates of which are not
more than two feet (2') above the floor of such story.
HANDICAPPED PERSON: A person who may be classified as having a physical
impairment that manifests itself in one or more of the following ways:
nonambulatory, semiambulatory, visually impaired, deaf or hard of hearing,
having faulty coordination, and having reduced mobility, flexibility,
coordination, or perceptiveness due to age or physical or mental conditions.
HAWKER: A person who engages in hawking.
HAWKING: Offering merchandise for sale on the streets by outcry or by
attracting the attention of persons by exposing goods in a public place, or by
placards, labels or signals.
HEALTH CENTER: See definition of Fitness Center.
HEALTHCARE FACILITY: A public or private facility principally engaged in
providing services for health maintenance and the treatment of mental or
physical conditions. This includes establishments providing support to the
medical profession and patients, such as medical and dental laboratories, blood
banks, or oxygen and other similar types of medical supplies and services.
HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE: The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed wall of a structure.
HILLSIDE AREA: Any property containing slope areas of ten percent (10%) or
greater.
HOME OCCUPATION: A commercial activity conducted in compliance with
 chapter 9.50 of this title, carried out by an occupant and conducted as an
accessory use within the primary dwelling unit, an accessory structure or
approved outdoor activity.
HOMELESS SHELTER: See definition of Emergency Shelter.
HOMEOWNERS' ASSOCIATION: An association of owners in a condominium, planned
unit development, or residential subdivision established to provide management
of property in which they own an undivided common interest.
HOOKAH BAR/LOUNGE: An establishment where patrons share flavored tobacco
(Shisha - a smokable mixture of tobacco, dried fruits, molasses) or a
nontobacco based substitute from a communal hookah (a water pipe device for
smoking). A hookah is a water pipe of Middle Eastern origin that is used to
smoke sweet, often flavored tobacco. The smoke is filtered through water at the
base of the hookah's pipe.
HORSE BOARDING: See definition of Animal Sales And Service: Animal Boarding.
HORSE KEEPING: Boarding of horses owned by the occupants of the residential
property. See also definition of Animal Keeping.
HORTICULTURE: The study and practice of cultivating plants, such as growing
fruit, flowers, ornamental plants, and vegetables.
   A.   Horticulture, Commercial: The cultivation of agricultural products for
retail or wholesale sales. Includes plant nurseries.
   B.   Horticulture, Private: The cultivation (but not sale) of agricultural
products for use or consumption only by property owner or tenant.
   C.   Horticulture, Public: See definition of Plant Nursery.
HOSPITAL: An institutional land use consisting of a facility licensed by the
state department of public health for the provision of clinical and temporary
or emergency service of a medical, obstetrical, nursing, surgical, anesthesia,
laboratory, radiology, pharmacy, and dietary services nature to human patients,
including inpatient and outpatient care.
HOTEL: A facility in which guest rooms or suites are offered for compensation
to the general public for lodging with or without meals and where no provision
is made for cooking in any individual guest room or suite.
HUMAN SCALE: The relationship of a building or portions of a building to a
human being. Harmonious relationship of the size of parts to one another and to
the human figure, usually around eight (8) to ten feet (10') in size. This
distance is about the limit of sensory perception of communication between
people including voice inclination and facial expression. This distance is also
about the limit of an upstretched arm reach for human beings which is another
measure of human scale.
HYDROPHYTE: A plant that grows in and is adapted to an aquatic or very wet
environment. (Ord. 252, 11-18-2014)
9.99.100: "I" DEFINITIONS:
IMPACT: The effect of any direct humanmade actions or indirect repercussion of
humanmade actions on existing physical, social, or economic conditions.
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE: Surface through which water cannot penetrate, such as roof,
road, sidewalk, or paved parking lot. The amount of impervious surface
increases with development and establishes the need for drainage facilities to
carry the increased runoff.
IMPROVEMENT: Any manmade, immovable item which becomes part of, placed upon, or
is affixed to, real estate.
INDUSTRIAL: The manufacture, production and processing of consumer goods.
Industrial is often divided into "heavy industrial" uses, such as construction
yards, quarrying and factories; and "light industrial" uses such as research
and development and less intensive warehousing and manufacturing.
INDUSTRIAL PARK: A planned, coordinated development of a tract of land with two
(2) or more separate industrial buildings. Such development is planned,
designed, constructed, and managed on an integrated and coordinated basis with
special attention given to on site vehicular circulation, parking, utility
needs, building design and orientation, and open space. An industrial park is
designed as a coordinated environment for a variety of industrial and related
activities. The project is developed or controlled by one proprietary interest.
It has an enforceable master plan and/or CC&Rs.
INFILL DEVELOPMENT: Development of vacant land within areas that are already
largely developed.
INSTITUTIONAL USE: A. Publicly or privately owned and operated activities that
are institutional in nature, such as hospitals, museums, and schools;
   B.   Churches and other religious organizations; and
   C.   Other nonprofit activities of a welfare, educational, or philanthropic
nature that cannot be considered a residential, commercial, or industrial
activity.
INTENSIFICATION OF USE: A change to the existing use of a property which
results in a change or increase in vehicular or pedestrian traffic, an increase
in parking requirements or induces additional environmental impacts, including,
but not limited to, noise, light, glare, vibration, traffic, water quality, air
quality or aesthetics.
INTENSITY OF USE: The number of dwelling units per acre for residential
development and floor area ratio (FAR) for nonresidential development, such as
commercial, office and industrial.
INTERIM HOUSING: Shared living quarters, generally without separate kitchen and
bathroom facilities for each room or unit, intended to meet short term shelter
and/or other immediate needs. Interim housing includes, but is not limited to,
the following:
   Dormitories
   Emergency shelters
   Fraternities
   Halfway houses
   Homeless shelters
   Labor camps
   Sororities
Interim housing does not include residential care facilities, family daycare
homes, family daycare centers, convalescent hospitals, hotels, motels or single
room occupancy housing.
INTERMITTENT STREAM: A stream that normally flows for at least thirty (30) days
after the last major rain of the season and is dry a large part of the year.
INTERNET CAFE: A bona fide business establishment that sells internet time,
which allows customers to surf the web and use computers for personal use. An
internet cafe can also have ancillary use of food and refreshments for patrons.
Internet cafes are not permitted to allow promotional sweepstakes or any other
gambling themed games for cash, magnetic sliding cards (or similar cards),
credits, monetary gifts or similar winnings or prizes (excluding California
lottery sales by licensed California lottery vendors).
INTERSECTION: The location where two (2) or more roadways cross at the same
grade. (Ord. 252, 11-18-2014)
9.99.110: "J" DEFINITIONS:
JUNK: Any scrap, waste, reclaimable material, or debris, whether or not stored,
for sale or in the process of being dismantled, destroyed, processed, salvaged,
stored, baled or disposed of.
JUNK AND SALVAGE FACILITY: Primary or accessory use of structures and/or land
for storage, dismantling and/or selling of castoff, unused, scrap or salvage
material of any sort, excluding vehicles (see definition of Automobile Wrecking
(Dismantling)). (Ord. 252, 11-18-2014)
9.99.120: "K" DEFINITIONS:
KENNELS AND CATTERIES: Facilities for the care of dogs and cats.
   A.   Commercial Kennel Or Cattery: The boarding, breeding, raising or
training of five (5) or more dogs or cats of any age not owned by the owner or
occupant of the premises, and/or for commercial gain. For the purposes of this
subsection A, a commercial kennel or cattery also includes the breeding of five
(5) or more dogs or cats of any age owned by the owner or occupant of the
premises for commercial gain.
   B.   Private Kennels Or Cattery: The keeping, raising, showing, or training
of five (5) to fifteen (15) dogs or cats over six (6) months of age for
personal enjoyment of the owner or occupants of the property, and for which
commercial gain is not the objective. All such animals shall be spayed or
neutered, except for those animals registered with the American Kennel Club,
the United Kennel Club, the American Cat Fanciers Association, or similar
organizations for show animal purposes.
KIOSK BUILDING: An accessory building used for key shops, photo drops and the
like, and generally located in a shopping center parking lot.
KITCHEN OR KITCHENETTE: Any room or part of a room which is designated, built,
used, or intended to be used for food preparation and dishwashing; but not
including a bar, butler's pantry or similar room adjacent to or connected with
a kitchen. (Ord. 252, 11-18-2014)
9.99.130: "L" DEFINITIONS:
LABORATORIES: Establishments providing medical or dental laboratory services or
establishments providing photographic, analytical, or testing services.
LAND USE: The occupation or utilization of land area for any human activity or
any purpose defined in the general plan.
LAND USE APPLICATION: A request for approval of a discretionary permit that is
subject to one of the permit processes specified by this code.
LAND USE DECISION: Any decision to approve, approve with conditions, modify or
deny a request to develop, divide or otherwise utilize land or to alter or
establish land use regulations.
LAND USE DISTRICT: A designation established by the general plan containing
applicable rules and regulations necessary to guide development and use of all
land within the district.
LAND USE ZONING DISTRICT: A portion of the town within which certain uses of
land and structures are defined, and regulations are specified.
LANDSCAPE PLAN: A component of a development plan on which is shown, including,
but not limited to, proposed landscape species, proposals for protection of
existing vegetation during and after construction, proposed treatment of hard
and soft surfaces, proposed decorative features, grade changes, buffers and
screening devices.
LANDSCAPING: Plantings, including trees, shrubs, and ground covers, suitably
designed, selected, installed, and maintained so as to enhance a site or
roadway permanently.
LAUNDRY: A. Limited: An establishment to dry clean and/or wash and dry clothes
and other fabrics brought in and carried away by the customer. This may include
self-service or coin operated facilities.
   B.   Unlimited: An establishment where large quantities of clothes and other
fabrics are washed and/or ironed but are collected and delivered primarily by
laundry employees. Unlimited laundry does not include the term "limited
laundry".
LEGAL, NONCONFORMING: See definitions of Nonconforming Lot (Legal),
Nonconforming Structure (Legal) or Nonconforming Use (Legal).
LIVESTOCK OPERATIONS: Intensive commercial hoofed animal keeping operations
including dairies, feedlots, hog ranches, etc.
LOADING SPACE: An off street space or berth used for the loading or unloading
of cargo, products, or materials from vehicles.
LOT: A parcel, tract or area of land established by plat, subdivision, or as
otherwise permitted by law, to be used, developed or built upon.
 [https://export.amlegal.com/media/36f3714c43e7ed5d919a0c9b7f62d682a315a495/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2662.gif] 
   Lot, Corner: A lot located at the intersection of two (2) or more streets at
an angle of not more than one hundred thirty five degrees (135°). If the angle
is greater than one hundred thirty five degrees (135°), the lot shall be
considered an "interior lot".
   Lot, Flag: A lot having access or an easement to a public or private street
by a narrow, private right of way.
   Lot, Interior: A lot abutting only one street.
   Lot, Irregular: A nonrectangular lot or rectangular lot not abutting a
public street.
   Lot, Key: A lot with a side line that abuts the rear line of any one or more
adjoining lots.
   Lot, Reversed Corner: A corner lot, the rear of which abuts the side of
another lot.
   Lot, Substandard: A parcel of land that has less than the required minimum
area or dimensions.
   Lot, Through: A lot having frontage on two (2) generally parallel streets,
with only one primary access.
LOT AREA: The total horizontal area included within the lot lines of a lot.
LOT AREA, GROSS: The total area within the lot lines of a parcel, including any
adjacent street rights of way.
LOT AREA, NET: The total area within the lot lines of a parcel, excluding any
street rights of way.
LOT COVERAGE: That portion of the lot that is covered by buildings, sidewalks,
driveways or other impervious surface.
LOT DEPTH: The horizontal distance between the midpoint of the front lot line
and the midpoint of the rear lot line; in the case of a triangular or other
irregularly shaped lot, the "rear lot line" is defined as a line within the lot
having a length not less than ten feet (10'), parallel to and most distant from
the front lot line.
LOT FRONTAGE: The portion of the lot contiguous to the street. On corner lots
the narrowest frontage shall be considered the front of the lot. On a lot
located on a cul-de-sac, curved street, or dead end street with a curved
turnaround, the frontage shall be measured as the chord drawn between the
termini of the side property lines at their intersection with the street right
of way.
LOT LINE: Any boundary of a lot.
LOT LINE ADJUSTMENT: The adjustment of a lot line between two (2) or more
adjacent parcels, where the land taken from one parcel is added to an adjacent
parcel, and where no additional parcels are created or the number of parcels
reduced.
LOT LINE, FRONT: On an interior lot, the line separating the parcel from the
street right of way. On a corner or through lot, the lot line abutting the
street providing the primary access to the lot. On a flag lot, the interior lot
line most parallel to and nearest the street from which access is obtained.
LOT LINE, INTERIOR: A lot line not intersecting a street which is not a front,
rear or side lot line. For purposes of this code setbacks from interior lot
lines shall be the same as for side or street side lot lines, whichever is
applicable.
LOT LINE, REAR: A lot line which intersects a side lot line and which is most
distant from and most closely parallel to the front lot line. In the case of a
triangular or otherwise irregularly shaped lot, a line within the lot having a
length not less than ten feet (10'), parallel to and most distant from the
front lot line shall be interpreted as the rear lot line for the purpose of
determining required setbacks and other provisions of this development code.
LOT LINE, SIDE: Those two (2) lot lines which intersect the rear line of the
front setback and at least one of which extends from the street right of way to
the rear property line, the other may extend to an interior lot line.
LOT OF RECORD: A lot that is part of a recorded subdivision or a parcel of land
that has been recorded at the county recorder's office containing property tax
records.
LOT WIDTH: The horizontal distance between the side lot lines, measured at the
required front setback line.
LOUNGE: See definition of eating and drinking establishments.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area, including basement.
(Ord. 252, 11-18-2014)
9.99.140: "M" DEFINITIONS:
MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR SERVICE: A. Major: Facilities providing equipment
maintenance and repair services and materials storage areas. This
classification includes, but is not limited to, corporation yards and equipment
service centers, and excludes maintenance and repair of motor vehicles.
   B.   Minor: Establishments providing appliance repair, office machine
repair, or building maintenance services. This classification excludes
maintenance and repair of motor vehicles.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A factory built structure, transported in one or more
sections, that meets the National Manufactured Home Construction and Safety
Standards Act, commonly known as the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development (HUD) Code. The term manufactured home does not include a
recreational vehicle.
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
MANUFACTURING: The mechanical or chemical transformation of materials or
substances into new products, including the assembling of component parts, the
creation of products, and the blending of materials.
MAY: For the purposes of this Development Code, "may" is generally used to
indicate a standard or requirement that is permitted or allowed.
MEDIAN: An island in the center of the street, highway, or other surface
intended for vehicle circulation that separates opposing traffic flows.
MICROCLIMATE: The climate of a small, distinct area, such as a city street or a
building's courtyard; can be favorably altered through functional landscaping,
architecture or other design features.
MINI-MALL: A shopping center of from eighty thousand (80,000) to one hundred
fifty thousand (150,000) square feet in size located on a site of eight (8) to
fifteen (15) acres where tenants are located on both sides of a walkway having
direct pedestrian access to all establishments from the walkway. Mini-malls
usually function as neighborhood shopping centers or specialty shopping
centers. Mini-malls usually do not require an anchor store.
MINI-WAREHOUSING/STORAGE: See definition of warehousing and storage facility:
limited.
MINING: The act or process of extracting resources, such as coal, oil, or
minerals, from the earth.
MITIGATE: To ameliorate, alleviate, or avoid to the extent reasonably feasible.
MIXED USE: Properties on which various uses, such as office, commercial,
institutional, and residential, are combined in a single building or on a
single site in an integrated development project with significant functional
interrelationships and a coherent physical design. A single site may include
contiguous properties.
MOBILEHOME: A manufactured dwelling unit designed for use as a single-family
dwelling capable of being transported to a site on a trailer or on wheels in
one or more sections and not designed to be affixed to a permanent foundation.
A mobilehome is not considered a building, as defined by the Uniform Building
Code.
MOBILEHOME PARK: A type of residential development, established either as a
legal subdivision of land with individual mobilehome pads and common areas or
as a development where pads are leased or rented, for the purpose of
accommodating mobilehome units on individual pads as part of a coordinated
development. A mobilehome park may include common areas and facilities for the
use of all park residents.
MODULAR OFFICE: A manufactured unit not designed for use as a single-family
dwelling that is capable of being transported to a site on a trailer or on
wheels in one or more sections and not designed to be affixed to a permanent
foundation.
MOTEL: A. A hotel for motorists.
   B.   A facility in which guest rooms or suites are offered to the general
public for lodging with or without meals and for compensation, and where guest
parking is provided in proximity to guestrooms. Quite often, provision is made
for cooking in individual guest rooms or suites.
   C.   A commercial land use providing short term shelter for twenty eight
(28) or fewer days in one or more buildings on the same lot. The buildings
contain guestrooms or dwelling units or both, which are usually individually
and independently accessible from outside the building. Motel includes motor
lodge, tourist court, motor hotel or any other designation intended to identify
the premises as providing for rental or overnight accommodation primarily to
motorists.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Any motorized vehicle designed to operate on a public street
including, but not limited to, automobiles, motorcycles, trucks and
recreational vehicles.
MOTOR VEHICLE REPAIR: A. Major: A place providing a full range of repair and
maintenance services for motor vehicles, including, cylinder head replacement,
valve grinding or replacement, clutch replacement or repair, replace
transmission, rear end, rear axles, kingpins, bodywork, engine or transmission
removal, fuel tank repair, radiator or heater core repair or replacement,
painting; or repair activities that require entry into the engine other than
those specifically defined as minor automobile repair.
   B.   Minor: A place performing the following repair and maintenance services
for motor vehicles not exceeding one ton carrying capacity, including any of
the following:
      1.    Tune Ups: Major and minor tune up involving spark plugs, points,
condensers, valve adjustment, carburetor overhaul, adjustment of fuel injection
systems, fuel pump and all necessary filters;
      2.    Lubrication: Oil changes and filter replacement, transmission and
rear end oil change;
      3.    Cooling System: Remove and replace radiator; replace water pump,
heater and other hoses; replace thermostats; recharge air conditioners;
      4.    Drive Train: Replacement of drive shaft universal bearings, center
support bushing, accelerator and brake cables; minor repair of hydraulic
systems; replacement of shock absorbers;
      5.    Brakes: Remove and replace shoes and brake pads; rebuild master and
wheel cylinders and disc caliper; adjustment of brakes; machine work related to
turning of drums or disc;
      6.    Wheels: Adjust steering box; replacement of rubber bushings in
suspension; wheel balancing; wheel alignment; replacement of wheel bearings;
tire changes and repair;
      7.    Electrical: Charge battery; remove, repair and replace starter,
alternator and regulator; rewiring of automobile and lights; repair or
replacement of gauges; installation of radios;
      8.    Fuel System: Change and repair of fuel lines; replace fuel gauge
sending unit;
      9.    Exhaust System: Tailpipe and muffler replacement.
Any activity combining minor and major motor vehicle repair shall be defined as
"major motor vehicle repair".
MUSEUM, LIBRARY, ART GALLERY, OUTDOOR EXHIBIT: Public or quasi- public
facilities, examples of which include: aquariums, arboretums, art galleries and
exhibitions, botanical gardens, historic sites and exhibits, libraries,
museums, planetariums, and zoos. (Ord. 252, 11-18-2014; amd. Ord. 268, 7-18-
2017)
9.99.150: "N" DEFINITIONS:
NATURE PRESERVE: An area of land maintained in its natural state for the
preservation of habitat or other natural resources.
NIGHTCLUB: See definition of eating and drinking establishments.
NOISE: Any sound that is undesirable because it interferes with speech and
hearing, or is intense enough to damage hearing, or is otherwise annoying.
Noise, simply, is unwanted sound.
NOISE ATTENUATION: Reduction of the level of a noise source using a substance,
device, material, or surface, such as earth berms and/or solid concrete walls.
NONCONFORMING, ILLEGAL: A structure, lot, or use which did not conform to
applicable laws when constructed or initiated, and does not conform to the
provisions of this Development Code.
NONCONFORMING LOT (LEGAL): A lot, the area, frontage or dimensions of which do
not conform to the provisions of this Development Code but which did conform to
applicable laws at the time it was subdivided.
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE (LEGAL): A structure which conformed to applicable laws
when constructed but does not conform to the provisions of this development
code.
NONCONFORMING USE (LEGAL): A use complying with applicable laws when
established but does not conform to the provisions of this development code.
NUISANCE: An interference with the enjoyment and use of the property.
NURSERY: An establishment in which all merchandise other than plants is kept
within an enclosed building or a fully screened enclosure. (Ord. 252, 11-18-
2014)
9.99.160: "O" DEFINITIONS:
OCCUPANCY/OCCUPIED: The residing of an individual or individuals in a dwelling
unit or the storage or use of equipment, merchandise, for machinery in any
building.
OFF HIGHWAY OR OFF ROAD VEHICLE RACE: Any organized sporting event or rally
where motorized vehicles are utilized in a contest of speed, or in a
competitive trial of speed or skill or recreational event, all or a portion of
which is conducted outside dedicated public rights of way maintained by a
public agency.
OFF SITE: Located outside the lot lines of the lot in question.
OFF SITE IMPROVEMENTS: Improvements required as a result of the development and
including, but not limited to, curb, gutter, sidewalk, road widening and
upgrading, stormwater facilities, and traffic improvements.
OFF SITE PARKING: Parking provided for a specific use but located on a site
other than the one on which the specific use is located.
OFFICE: A. Administrative, Business, Professional, Corporate: Offices of or
organizations providing professional, executive, management, or administrative
services, such as architectural, engineering, real estate, insurance,
investment, legal, and medical/dental laboratories incidental to an office use,
but excluding banks, savings and loan associations and other similar financial
institutions and dental and medical offices.
   B.   Government: An administrative, clerical, or public contact office of a
government agency, including postal facilities, together with the incidental
storage and maintenance of vehicles.
   C.   Medical And Dental: An office or health facility providing health
services including, without limitation, preventative and rehabilitation
treatment, diagnostic services, testing and analysis. This use includes offices
providing medical, dental, surgical, rehabilitation, podiatral, optometric,
chiropractic and psychiatric services, and medical or dental laboratories
incidental to these offices, but exclude inpatient services and overnight
accommodation.
OFFICIAL MAP: A map prepared in compliance with this development code and shall
be substituted for a final map when it is certified, filed and bound, but not
before.
OPEN SPACE (USABLE): Open areas within a multiple-family or planned residential
development project which are to be used for scenic, landscaping or
recreational purposes by all the residents of the project. This does not
include flood control channel right of way, areas devoted to parking, vehicular
traffic, service areas, or slopes over ten percent (10%), required setbacks,
and any other area which does not significantly lend itself to the overall
benefit of a particular development or surrounding environment. Usable common
open space shall be devoted primarily to active recreational opportunities,
i.e., pool, court games, wading pools, barbecue area or other recreational
facilities, for the common use of all residents. Open space areas shall not
have any dimension less than twenty five feet (25'), except decks or balconies,
which shall not have any dimension less than six feet (6') to qualify as usable
open space. Decks shall not be counted as usable open space where they are used
solely as a passageway and entrance to a dwelling. Where decks are private in
nature or are for the general use of tenants residing on the property and do
not serve principally as a passageway, such decks may be counted as usable open
space when otherwise conforming with the requirements of this title.
OUTDOOR DINING: See definition of Eating And Drinking Establishments.
OUTDOOR EVENTS: Activities conducted outside for public benefit and
participation including, but not limited to, parades, concerts, rallies, sports
competitions, etc.
OUTDOOR FACILITIES: Any business enterprise, temporary use, sales or service,
storage or activity conducted outside an enclosed building.
OUTDOOR SALES: The display and sale of products and services outside of a
building or structure.
OUTDOOR STORAGE: The keeping, in an unenclosed area, of any goods, junk,
material, merchandise, or vehicles in the same place for more than twenty four
(24) hours.
OVERLAY DISTRICT: A set of zoning requirements that are described in the text
of the zoning regulations and which are imposed in addition to those
requirements of the base district. (Ord. 252, 11-18-2014)
9.99.170: "P" DEFINITIONS:
PARAPET: The extension of the main walls of a building above the roofline.
PARCEL: A lot, or contiguous group of lots, in single ownership or under single
control, usually considered a unit for purposes of development.
PARK: A tract of land, designated and used by the public for active and/or
passive recreation.
PARK AND RECREATION FACILITIES: Noncommercial parks, playgrounds, recreation
facilities, and open spaces.
PARKING, COMMERCIAL LOT: A business enterprise engaged in providing the service
of parking space of vehicles for short term use, typically less than twenty
four (24) hours in duration.
PARKING LOT: A site or a portion of a site, devoted to the temporary off street
parking of vehicles, including parking spaces, aisles, access drives, and
landscaped areas, and providing vehicle access to a public street.
PARKING; OFF STREET LOADING FACILITIES: A site or a portion of a site,
including loading berths, aisles, access drives, and landscape areas, devoted
to the loading or unloading of people or materials.
PARKING, SHARED: Joint use of a parking area for more than one use.
PARKING SPACE: A readily accessible area maintained exclusively for the parking
of one motor vehicle. The parking space may be either within a structure or in
the open and does not include driveways, ramps, loading or working areas, and
conforms to dimensions and standards established in this title.
PARKWAY: The area of a public street that lies between the curb and the
adjacent property line or physical boundary definition such as fences or walls,
which is used for landscaping and/or passive recreational purposes.
PAWNSHOP: An establishment engaged in retail sales of new or secondhand
merchandise and offering loans secured by personal property.
PEDDLER: A person who engages in peddling.
PEDDLING: Selling merchandise which is transported from place to place in the
course of approaching prospective customers or selling merchandise or services
from door to door.
PEDESTRIAN FOOD VENDOR: A person who sells or offers for sale any food or
beverage from any portable box, pushcart, stand, bag, or similar container on
any public street, including parkways or sidewalks within the town.
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS: Zoning regulations that set standards of operation.
Performance standards provide specific criteria limiting noise, air pollution,
emissions, odors, vibration, dust, dirt, glare, heat, fire hazards, wastes,
traffic impacts and visual impact of a use.
PERMIT: Written governmental permission issued by an authorized official,
empowering the holder thereof to do some act not forbidden by law but not
allowed with such authorization.
PERMITTED USE/STRUCTURE: Any use allowed in a land use district and subject to
the provisions applicable to that district.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, copartnership, joint venture, association, social
club, fraternal organization, company, joint stock association, corporation,
estate, trust, organization, business, business trust, public agency, school
district, state of California and its political subdivisions or
instrumentalities, receiver, syndicate or any group or combination thereof,
acting as a unit, including any trustee or assignee.
PERSONAL IMPROVEMENT SERVICES: Services or facilities including, but not
limited to, photography, fine arts, crafts, driving schools, beauty and hair
salon, and diet centers.
PERSONAL SERVICE: A commercial land use providing recurrently needed services
of a personal nature. Personal services generally include barber and beauty
shops, seamstresses, tailors, shoe repair shops, dry cleaning (except bulk
processing plants), photo processing, photocopying, and self-service laundries.
PLACES OF ASSEMBLY: Includes public and private institutions, such as religious
uses, lodges, clubs, senior citizen centers, youth centers, community centers
and YMCA/YWCA facilities.
PLANNED RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT (PRD): A type of development characterized by
comprehensive planning for the project as a whole, clustering of structures to
preserve usable open space and other natural features, and a mixture of housing
types within the prescribed densities.
PLANNING DIVISION: An administrative and professional division within the
municipal structure charged with the responsibility of providing long range and
short term planning services and zoning administration to the community, as
established by the town.
PLANT NURSERY: A place where plants are propagated and grown to usable size.
They include retail nurseries which sell to the general public, wholesale
nurseries which sell only to businesses such as other nurseries and to
commercial gardeners, and private nurseries which supply the needs of
institutions or private estates.
PLAT: A map representing a tract of land showing the boundaries and location of
individual properties and streets; a map of a subdivision or site plan.
PLAYGROUND: See definition of Park And Recreation Facilities.
PLAZA: An open space which is improved and landscaped, usually surrounded by
streets and buildings.
PLOT: A single unit parcel of land; a parcel of land that can be identified and
referenced to a recorded plat or map.
PORCH: A roofed open area, which may be screened, usually attached to or part
of and with direct access to or from a building.
PORTE-COCHERE: A large entrance gateway into a courtyard. A kind of porch roof
projecting over a driveway at an entrance.
PREEXISTING: In existence prior to the effective date of this chapter, as
amended.
PREZONING: The process or action by which cities are able to designate that
portion of an unincorporated area for future annexation, with specific zoning
districts which will apply, upon annexation of the property to the town.
PRINCIPAL BUILDING: A building in which the primary use of the lot on which the
building is located is conducted.
PRINCIPAL USE: The primary or predominant use of any lot, building or
structure.
PRINTING AND PUBLISHING: A. Limited: The preparation of camera ready artwork
and text, photocopying, printing, and binding in a building not exceeding one
thousand (1,000) square feet.
   B.   Unlimited: The preparation of camera ready artwork and text,
photocopying, printing and binding in a building exceeding one thousand (1,000)
square feet.
PRIVATE CLUBS AND LODGES: An association of persons, whether incorporated or
unincorporated and organized for some common nonprofit purpose, but not
including a group organized solely or primarily to render a service customarily
carried on as a business.
PRIVATE HOME RENTAL, SHORT TERM: A dwelling unit, including either a single-
family detached or multi-family attached unit, owned, leased or rented on a
less than thirty (30) day basis. This definition includes a second dwelling
unit on site. This does not include the ongoing month to month tenancy granted
to the same renter for the same unit.
PRIVATE RECREATIONAL FACILITIES: Facilities including, but not limited to,
country clubs, tennis and swim clubs, golf courses, racquetball and handball
facilities, YMCA, YWCA, and limited commercial uses which are commonly
associated and directly related to these primary uses.
PROFESSIONAL OFFICES: See definition of Office.
PUBLIC AND SEMIPUBLIC USES: A class of uses generally open to the public and
maintained and supported by public or nonprofit agencies or organizations and
which are of a recreational, civic, educational, religious or cultural nature.
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT: Any improvement or facility, together with the right of way
necessary to provide transportation, drainage, utilities, or other facilities
that are usually owned, operated and/or maintained by a government agency.
PUBLIC PARK: A park, playground, swimming pool, beach, pier, reservoir, golf
course or athletic field within the town which is under the control, operation
or management of the town, the county or state.
PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY: A strip of land acquired by reservation, dedication,
prescription or condemnation and intended to be occupied by a road, trail,
water line, sanitary sewer and/or other public use(s).
PUBLIC SAFETY FACILITIES: Facilities for public safety and emergency services,
including police and fire protection.
PUBLIC UTILITY SERVICE YARD: A premises used for the office, warehouse, storage
yard, or vehicle and equipment maintenance of a public utility. Public utility
service yard may include microwave, radio, cable, and/or other communication
equipment.
PUSHCART: Any wagon, cart or similar wheeled container, not a vehicle as
defined in the Vehicle Code of the state of California from which food or
beverage is offered for sale to the public. (Ord. 252, 11-18-2014)
9.99.180: "Q" DEFINITIONS:
QUARRY: A place where rock, ore, stone and similar materials are excavated and
processed for sale or for off site use.
QUEUE LINE: An area for the temporary waiting of motor vehicles while obtaining
a service or other activity such as a drive- through restaurant or a car wash.
(Ord. 252, 11-18-2014)
9.99.190: "R" DEFINITIONS:
RAMP: A sloping walkway, roadway or passage used to join and provide a smooth
transition between two (2) levels of different elevations. Driveways leading to
parking aisles.
RECLAMATION 1 : The combined process of land treatment that minimizes water
degradation, air pollution, and damage to wildlife habitat, flooding, and
erosion caused by either surface mining operations or adverse surface effects
incidental to underground mines. Mined lands are reclaimed to a usable
condition when they are readily adaptable for alternate land uses and create no
danger to public health or safety. The process may extend to affected lands
surrounding mined land and may require backfilling, grading, resoiling,
revegetation, soil compaction, stabilization or other measures. 2
RECREATION, ACTIVE: A type of recreation or activity that requires the use of
organized play areas including, but not limited to, softball, baseball,
football and soccer fields, tennis and basketball courts and various forms of
children's play equipment.
RECREATION, COMMERCIAL: A commercial land use providing facilities for
recreation in exchange for financial or other consideration.
RECREATION, PASSIVE: A type of recreation activity that does not require the
use of organized play areas.
RECREATIONAL COURTS: Facilities developed for the purpose of playing court
sports, including, but not limited to, tennis, paddle tennis, handball,
racquetball, and other similar uses.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle towed or self-propelled on its own chassis or
attached to the chassis of another vehicle and designed or used for
recreational or sporting purposes. The term recreational vehicle includes, but
is not limited to, travel trailers, pickup campers, camping trailers, motor
coach homes, converted trucks or buses, boats and boat trailers, and all-
terrain vehicles.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK: An area where spaces are offered to users of
recreational vehicles for occupancy on a temporary basis.
RECYCLABLE MATERIAL: Reusable material, including, but not limited to, metals,
glass, plastic, paper and wood, intended for reuse, remanufacture or
reconstitution for the purpose of being used in an altered form.
RECYCLING: The process by which waste products, including automobiles, are
reduced to raw materials and transformed into new products.
RECYCLING COLLECTION POINT: An incidental use that serves as a neighborhood
drop off point for temporary storage of recoverable resources where no
processing of such items is allowed. This facility would generally be located
in a shopping center parking lot or in other public/quasi-public area.
RECYCLING FACILITIES: This land use type includes a variety of facilities
involved with the collection of recyclable materials. A "certified" recycling
or processing facility is certified by the California department of
conservation as meeting the requirements of the California beverage container
recycling and litter reduction act of 1986. Recyclable material includes
reusable domestic containers and other materials that can be reconstituted,
remanufactured, or reused in an altered form, including glass, metals, paper,
and plastic. Recyclable material does not include refuse or hazardous
materials. This land use does not include storage containers located on a
residentially, commercially, or industrially designated site used solely for
the recycling of material generated on the site.
   A.   Collection Facility (Small): A facility that occupies an area of three
hundred fifty (350) square feet or less where the public may donate, redeem, or
sell recyclable materials and may include:
1. A mobile unit;
2. Bulk reverse vending machines or a grouping of reverse vending machines
occupying more than fifty (50) square feet. A bulk reverse vending machine is a
reverse vending machine that is larger than fifty (50) square feet, is designed
to accept more than one container at a time, and issues a cash refund or
redeemable credit slip based on total weight instead of by container.
3. Kiosk type units that may include permanent structures.
   B.   Collection Facility (Large): A facility that occupies an area of more
than three hundred fifty (350) square feet and/or includes permanent structures
where the public may donate, redeem, or sell recyclable materials.
   C.   Reverse Vending Machine: An automated mechanical device which accepts
at least one or more types of empty beverage containers and issues a cash
refund or a redeemable credit slip with a value not less than the container's
redemption value, as determined by state law. These vending machines may accept
aluminum cans, glass and plastic bottles, and other containers. The vending
machines typically occupy an area of less than fifty (50) square feet.
   D.   Processing Facility: A structure or enclosed space used for the
collection and processing of recyclable materials. "Processing" means the
preparation of material for efficient shipment, or to an end user's
specifications, by such means as bailing, briquetting, compacting, flattening,
grinding, crushing, mechanical sorting, shredding, cleaning and
remanufacturing. Processing facilities are not allowed in the town of Yucca
Valley.
RECYCLING PLANT: A facility that is not a junkyard and in which recoverable
resources, such as newspapers, magazines, books, and other paper products;
glass; metal cans; and other products that are recycled, reprocessed, and
treated to return such products to a condition in which they may again be used
for production.
REGULATORY FLOODWAY: See definition of Floodway.
RELIGIOUS ASSEMBLY: See definition of Church (Place Of Religious Worship/
Assembly).
RELIGIOUS INSTITUTION: See definition of Church (Place Of Religious Worship/
Assembly).
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT SERVICES: Establishments primarily engaged in
industrial or scientific research, including limited product testing.
RESIDENTIAL: A land use category with the principal purpose of providing
shelter for people on a long term basis.
RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (CONGREGATE CARE): Residential facilities in which
group care, supervision and/or assistance are provided for persons who may or
may not have a disability. Residential facilities do not include family
daycare, foster care or any medical services, including nursing services,
beyond that required by the residents of the facility for sustaining the
activities of daily living. Examples of residential care facilities include,
but are not limited to, facilities for the following:
   A.   Elderly Residential Care Facility: Provides twenty four (24) hour care
for adults sixty (60) years of age and older.
   B.   Adult Residential Care Facility: Provides twenty four (24) hour care
for adults who are between eighteen (18) and fifty nine (59) years of age.
   C.   Group Home: Provides twenty four (24) hour care for children under
eighteen (18) years of age.
RESORT HOTEL: A group of buildings containing guestrooms and providing outdoor
recreational activities.
RESTAURANT: See definition of Eating And Drinking Establishments.
RESTAURANT, DRIVE-THROUGH: A use providing preparation and retail sale of food
and beverages, as defined under "restaurant" with the added provision of one or
more drive-through lanes for the ordering and dispensing of food and beverages
to patrons remaining in their vehicles.
RETAIL: The exchange of goods directly to the ultimate consumer in exchange for
financial or other consideration.
RETAIL SALES: Establishments engaged in selling goods or merchandise to the
general public for personal or household consumption and rendering services
incidental to the sale of such goods.
REVERSE VENDING MACHINE: See definition of Recycling Facilities.
REVERSION OF ACREAGE: The process by which subdivided real property may be
reverted to acreage.
REVIEW AUTHORITY: The person, committee, commission or council responsible for
the review and/or final action on a land use entitlement or discretionary
decision.
REZONING: An amendment to the map and/or text of a zoning ordinance to effect a
change in the nature, density, intensity or regulation of uses allowed in a
zoning district and/or on a designated parcel or land area or an amendment to
procedures regarding implementation of zoning regulations.
RIGHT OF WAY: See definition of Public Right Of Way.
RIPARIAN LANDS: Comprised of the vegetative and wildlife areas adjacent to
perennial and intermittent streams. Riparian areas are delineated by the
existence of plant species normally found near fresh water.
ROOM, HABITABLE: A room meeting the requirements of the uniform housing code.
ROUNDING OF QUANTITIES: The consideration of distances, unit density, density
bonus calculations, or other aspects of development or the physical environment
expressed in numerical quantities which are fractions of whole numbers; the
numbers are to be rounded to the nearest highest whole number when the fraction
is 0.5 or more, and to the next lowest whole number when the fraction is less
than 0.5, except as otherwise may be provided in this development code.
RUNOFF: That portion of rain or snow that does not percolate into the ground
and is instead discharged into streams or other bodies of water. (Ord. 252, 11-
18-2014)
 
Notes
1 1. PRC § 2733.
2 1. PRC § 2733.
9.99.200: "S" DEFINITIONS:
SALVAGE AND WRECKING OPERATION: A place where used motor vehicles or trailers,
or portions thereof, are discarded, bought, sold, exchanged, baled, packed,
disassembled, stored, displayed or handled; house wrecking operations; used
lumber or other building material yards; places for storage of salvaged
building materials and structural steel materials and equipment; but not
including the sale of used motor vehicles in operable condition, establishments
for the sale, purchase, or storage of used furniture and household fixtures
when conducted entirely within an enclosed building.
SATELLITE DISH ANTENNA: An apparatus capable of receiving or transmitting
communications from a satellite.
SCALE: The measurement of the relationship of the size and bulk of one object
to another object.
SCHOOL, COMMERCIAL: Any building or part thereof which is designed, constructed
or used for education or instruction in any branch of knowledge or art form for
commercial purposes.
SCHOOL DISTRICT: A district that serves as a unit for state financing and
administration of elementary and secondary schools.
SCHOOL, ELEMENTARY AND HIGH: An institution of learning for minors, whether
public or private, which offers instruction in those courses of study required
by the California Education Code or which is maintained pursuant to standards
set by the state board of education.
SCHOOL, PRIVATE: Any building or group of buildings, the use of which meets
state requirements for elementary, secondary, or higher education and which use
does not secure the major part of its funding from any governmental agency.
SCHOOL, SECONDARY: Any school licensed by the state, authorized to award
diplomas for secondary education.
SCHOOL, VOCATIONAL: A technical, trade or self-improvement school providing
highly specialized technical courses or a limited range of technical courses
not recognized by accredited organizations.
SCREENING: The method by which a view of one site from another adjacent site is
shielded, concealed, or hidden. Screening techniques include fences, walls,
hedges, trees and/or other plantings, berms or other features. Screening should
include materials of sufficient mass to be opaque or that shall become opaque
after twelve (12) months and which shall be maintained in an opaque condition.
SCREENING MATERIALS: When the provisions of this code allow for, or require,
the installation of fencing to screen objects located behind said fence from
public view, such fencing shall consist of new solid materials or, if chainlink
fencing, such chainlink fencing must include redwood or durable plastic/
metallic slats installed and maintained in such a manner so the material being
stored behind the fencing cannot be seen directly, indirectly, silhouetted or
in any other manner, directly or at an oblique angle to the fence.
SECOND DWELLING UNIT: A self-contained living unit, either attached to or
detached from, and in addition to, the primary residential unit of a single
lot.
SECONDHAND STORE: Any premises used or the sale or handling of used goods.
Secondhand store includes establishments for the sale or trade of used
clothing, furniture and appliances.
SECURITY QUARTERS: A dwelling unit, commercial coach, or travel trailer
utilized to provide temporary quarters to security personnel hired to guard
part or all of the property on which the security quarters are located.
SENIOR (SENIOR CITIZEN): A person who is fifty five (55) years of age or older.
SENIOR CENTER: An assembly building intended to provide nonresidential services
for senior citizens.
SENIOR CONGREGATE CARE HOUSING: A structure(s) providing residence for a group
of senior citizens with or without common kitchen and dining facilities with
separate bedrooms and/or living quarters.
SETBACK: The horizontal distance between the property line and any structure.
SETBACK, BUILDING: The required distance between the building and any lot line.
SETBACK LINE: The line that establishes the area of the property within which
structures or other designated uses may be erected or placed.
SHALL: For the purpose of this development code, the word "shall" is used to
indicate a requirement or standard that is mandatory.
SHOPPING CENTER: A group of two (2) or more commercial establishments, the
perimeter of which is clearly definable, developed on a continuous area of
land, planned and developed as a single unit and providing shared on site
parking, access, landscaping, and signage.
SHORT TERM PRIVATE HOME RENTAL: See definition of Private Home Rental, Short
Term.
SHOULD: For the purpose of this development code, "should" is used to indicate
the preferred option.
SIDEWALK: A paved, surfaced or leveled area paralleling and usually separated
from the street, used as a pedestrian walkway.
SIDEWALK/PARKING LOT SALE: A promotional sales event conducted by one or more
businesses which is held outside the confines of the commercial or
manufacturing structure(s) in which such business is normally conducted. Such
sale involves outdoor display within a paved or concreted area on the same lot
as the structure(s), of merchandise which is normally displayed within the
structure(s). Sale events shall be conducted solely on private property and not
encroach within public rights of way.
SIGN: A sign that identifies, advertises or otherwise attracts attention to a
product or business. Related sign terms are defined as follows:
   Awning, Canopy, Or Marquee Sign: Signs which are placed on or integrated
into fabric awnings or other material canopies which are mounted on the
exterior of a building which extend from the wall of a building to provide
shielding of windows and entrances from inclement weather and the sun.
   Banner, Flag, Pennant Or Balloon: Any cloth, bunting, plastic, paper, vinyl,
or similar material used for advertising purposes attached to or pinned on or
from any structure, staff, pole, line, framing, or vehicle, including captive
balloons and inflatable signs but not including official flags of the United
States, the state of California, county of San Bernardino or town of Yucca
Valley.
   Bench Sign: Copy painted on any portion of a bus stop bench.
   Billboard: Any off premises outdoor advertising sign structure which
advertises products, services, or activities not conducted or performed on the
same site upon which the outdoor advertising sign structure is located and
governed by the outdoor advertising act.
   Building Face And/Or Frontage: The exterior wall of a building exposed to
public view or that wall viewed by persons not within the building.
   Building Wall: The individual sides of a building.
   Business Entrance Identification: A sign adjacent to, or on the entrance
door of a business which names, gives the address and such other appropriate
information as store hours and telephone numbers.
   Cabinet: A three-dimensional structure which includes a frame, borders, and
sign face panel and may include internal lighting upon which the sign letters
and logos are placed or etched, and is architecturally integrated with the
building.
   Canopy Sign: Refer to definition of Sign: Shingle Sign (Canopy Sign).
   Changeable Copy Sign: A sign designed to allow the changing of copy through
manual, mechanical, or electrical means including time and temperature.
   Channel Letter Sign: Three-dimensional individually cut letters or figures,
illuminated or nonilluminated, affixed to a building or sign structure.
   Civic Event Sign: A temporary sign, other than a commercial sign, posted to
advertise a civic event sponsored by a public agency, school, church, civic-
fraternal organization, or similar noncommercial organization.
   Construction Sign: A temporary sign erected on the parcel on which
construction is taking place, limited to the duration of the construction,
indicating the names of the architects, engineers, landscape architects,
contractors, or similar artisans, and the owner, financial supporters,
sponsors, and similar individuals or firms having a major role or interest with
respect to the structure or project.
   Directional Sign: Signs limited to directional messages, principally for
pedestrian or vehicular traffic, such as "one way", "entrance", or "exit".
   Directory Sign: A sign for listing the tenants or occupants and their suite
numbers of a building or center.
   Double Faced Sign: A single structure designed with the intent of providing
copy on both sides.
   Eave Line: The bottom of the roof eave or parapet.
   Entryway Sign: A sign which is placed on the perimeter of a recorded
subdivision, townhouse project, commercial district, master planned community,
hotel, motel, or guest ranch at a major street or driveway entrance to identify
the name of the interior project. Such signs may flank both sides of the
entrance and may include monument or landscape wall sign types.
   Fascia Sign: A sign placed on a parapet type wall used as part of the face
of a flat roofed building and projecting not more than one foot (1') from the
building face and may be incorporated as an architectural element of the
building.
   Flashing Sign: A sign that contains an intermittent or sequential flashing
light source.
   Freestanding Sign: Any sign which is supported by structures or supports
that are placed on, or anchored in the ground which are independent from any
building, such as a pole and monument signs.
   Future Tenant Identification Sign: A temporary sign which identifies a
future use of a site or building.
   Grand Opening: A promotional activity used by newly established businesses,
within two (2) months after occupancy, to inform the public of their location
and service available to the community. Grand opening does not mean an annual
or occasional promotion of retail sales or activity by a business.
   Height Of Sign: The greatest vertical distance measured from the immediate
adjacent roadway grade level or existing grade, to the highest element of the
sign structure.
   Holiday Decoration Sign: Temporary signs, in the nature of decorations,
clearly incidental to and customarily associated with holidays.
   Illegal Sign: Any sign erected without first obtaining a sign permit, or a
sign for which the permit has expired or been revoked.
   Illuminated Sign: A sign with an artificial light source for the purpose of
lighting the sign.
   Institutional Sign: A sign identifying the premises of a church, school,
hospital, rest home, or similar institutional facility.
   Kiosk: An off premises sign used for directing people to the sales office or
models of a residential subdivision project.
   Logo: An established identifying symbol or mark associated with a business
or business entity.
   Logo Sign: An established trademark or symbol identifying the use of a
building.
   Model Home: A single-family residential structure when used as a temporary
sales office and model home for the sale of construction services to build
single-family residential units on vacant lots.
   Monument Sign: An independent structure supported from grade to the bottom
of the sign with the appearance of having a solid base.
    Moving Sign: Animated signs or signs which contain any moving elements as
part of the structure but does not include reflective, shimmering devices.
   Nonconforming Sign: A legally established sign which fails to conform to the
regulations of this title.
   Off Site Sign: Any sign which advertises or informs in any manner
businesses, services, goods, persons, or events at some location other than
that upon which the sign is located.
    Open House Sign: A temporary sign posted to indicate a salesperson is
available to represent the property subject to sale, lease, or rent.
   Outdoor Advertising Sign Structure (Billboards): A sign, display, or device
affixed to the ground or attached to or painted or posted onto any part of a
building or similar permanent structure, used for the display of an
advertisement to the general public.
   Pole/Pylon Sign: A two (2) sided sign with an overall height as allowed by
code and having one or more supports permanently attached directly into or upon
the ground with the lower edge of the sign face to be at least seven feet (7')
above grade or four feet (4') above grade if the sign is located within a
street landscape setback.
   Political Sign: A temporary sign directly associated with national, state,
county or local elections.
   Portable Sign: A sign that is not permanently affixed to a structure or the
ground, not including A-frame signs.
   Projecting Sign: A sign other than a wall sign suspended from, or supported
by, a building or structure and projecting outward.
   Promotional Sign: A sign erected on a temporary basis to promote the sale of
new products, new management, new hours of operation, a new service, or to
promote a special sale.
   Real Estate Sign: An on site sign pertaining to the sale or lease of the
premises.
   Roof Sign: A sign erected, constructed, or placed upon or over a roof of a
building, including a mansard roof and which is wholly or partly supported by
such buildings.
   Shingle Sign (Canopy Sign): A sign suspended from a roof overhang of a
covered porch or walkway that identifies the tenant of the adjoining space.
   Sign: Any structure, housing, device, figure, statuary, painting, display,
message placard, or other contrivance, or any part thereof, which is designed,
constructed, created, engineered, intended, or used to advertise, or to provide
data or information in the nature of advertising, for any of the following
purposes: to designate, identify, or indicate the name of the business of the
owner or occupant of the premises upon which the advertising display is
located; or, to advertise the business conducted, services available or
rendered, or the goods produced, sold, or available for sale, upon the property
where the advertising display is erected.
   Sign Area: The entire face of a sign, including any framing, projections, or
molding, but not including the support structure. Individual channel type
letters mounted on a building shall be measured by the area enclosed by
straight lines not to exceed ten (10) sides, containing words, letters,
figures, or symbols, together with any frame or material forming an integral
part of the display but excluding support structures.
   Sign Program: A coordinated program of one or more signs for an individual
building or building complexes with multiple tenants.
   Special Event: An event such as sales, grand openings, going out of
business, or other promotional events that are not part of typical business,
cultural, or civic activity.
   Temporary Sign: A sign intended to be displayed for a limited period of
time.
   Tract: A residential subdivision of contiguous lots within a recorded tract
where five (5) or more lots are concurrently undergoing construction.
   Trademark: A word or name which, with a distinctive type or letter style, is
associated with a business or business entity in the conduct of business.
   Two-Sided Sign: A freestanding sign where two (2) identical sign faces are
placed back to back on the same structure. Any other configuration is
considered to be a sign with more than two (2) faces except as allowed by the
freestanding sign standards.
   Vehicle Sign: A sign which is attached to or painted on a vehicle which is
parked on or adjacent to any property, the principal purpose of which is to
attract attention to a product sold or an activity or business located on such
property.
   Wall Sign: A sign painted on or fastened to a wall and which does not
project more than twelve inches (12") from the building or structure.
   Window Sign: Any sign that is applied or attached to a window so that it can
be seen from the exterior of the structure.
SINGLE ROOM OCCUPANCY: A multiple-tenant building that houses one or two (2)
people in individual rooms (sometimes 2 rooms, or 2 rooms with a bathroom or
half bathroom), or to the single room dwelling itself. SRO tenants typically
share bathrooms and/or kitchens, while some SRO rooms may include kitchenettes,
bathrooms, or half baths.
SITE: A parcel of land or contiguous parcels where land alterations or
activities, including grading, clearing or construction are performed or
proposed.
SITE PLAN: The development plan for one or more lots on which is shown the
existing and proposed condition of the lot, including any information that may
be required for an informed decision to be made by the approval authority.
SITE PLAN REVIEW: A review process conducted in accordance with
 chapter 9.68 of this title.
SLOPE: The land gradient described as the vertical rise divided by the
horizontal run, and expressed in terms of percent.
SOCIAL CARE FACILITY: Any facility in the general classification of boarding
home for aged persons, boarding home for children, daycare home for children,
day nursery, nursing home or parent child boarding home. These facilities
consist of a building or group of buildings used or designed for the housing of
sick, demented, injured, convalescent, infirm, or well, normal, healthy
persons, requiring licensing or certification by regulating government
agencies. This definition shall not include use of a part of any single or
multiple dwelling, hotel, apartment, or motel not ordinarily intended to be
occupied by these persons unless so licensed or certified by the governmental
agency concerned with the administration of each specific classification.
SOLAR ACCESS: The provision of direct sunlight to an area specified for solar
energy collection when the sun's azimuth is within forty five degrees (45°) of
true south.
SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM: Any solar collector solar device, or structural design
feature of a building whose primary purpose is to provide for the collection,
storage, and distribution of solar energy for space heating or cooling; for
domestic, recreational, therapeutic, or service water heating; for the
generation of electricity; for the production of process heat; and for the
production of mechanical work. Solar energy systems include passive thermal
systems, semipassive thermal systems, active thermal systems and photovoltaic
systems. This category does not include parabolic mirror and devices of a
similar nature.
SOLAR FACILITIES: The air space over a parcel that provides access for a solar
energy system to absorb energy from the sun.
SOLAR SYSTEM, ACTIVE: A system that uses a mechanical device, such as pumps or
fans run by electricity in addition to solar energy, to transport air or water
between a solar collector and the interior of a building for heating or
cooling.
SOLAR SYSTEM, PASSIVE: A system that distributes collected heat via direct
transfer from a thermal storage medium rather than mechanical power. Passive
systems rely on building design and materials to collect and store heat and to
create natural ventilation for cooling.
SOLICITING: The act of asking or inviting persons to pay money in return for
merchandise or services to be delivered in the future or asking for charitable
donations.
SOLICITOR: A person who engages in soliciting.
SPECIFIC PLAN: A detailed plan that includes the text and maps or diagrams that
specifically follow a portion of the area covered by the general plan:
   A.   Land use;
   B.   Distribution, location, and extent and intensity of major components of
public and private transportation, sewage, water, drainage, solid waste
disposal, energy, and other public facilities and services;
   C.   Standards and criteria by which development will proceed; and
   D.   The relationship of the specific plan to the adopted general plan.
SPECULATIVE BUILDING: A permanent structure for which the specific use or uses
are not known at the time application is made for building permits.
SPORTS AND RECREATION FACILITY: See definition of Sports Or Entertainment
Assembly.
SPORTS OR ENTERTAINMENT ASSEMBLY: A large scale indoor or outdoor facility
accommodating spectator oriented sports, concerts, and other entertainment
activities. Examples of this land use include amphitheaters, racetracks, rodeo
arenas, stadiums and coliseums. May also include commercial facilities
customarily associated with the above uses, including bars and restaurants,
gift shops, video game arcades, etc.
SQUARE: A public open space in a developed area.
STABLE, COMMERCIAL: A structure for the keeping of horses, mules or ponies
which are boarded for compensation.
STABLE, PRIVATE: An accessory structure for the keeping of horses or ponies for
the use of occupants of the premises.
STAFF: The staff of the various departments or divisions of the town of Yucca
Valley.
STANDARD: A. A rule or measurement establishing a level of quality or quantity
that must be complied with or satisfied. Examples of standards might include
the number of acres of park land per one thousand (1,000) population that the
community will attempt to acquire and improve, or the planned traffic level of
service (LOS).
   B.   Requirements in a zoning ordinance that govern building and development
as distinguished from use restrictions; for example, site design regulations
such as minimum lot area, height limit, frontage, landscaping and floor area
ratio.
STORAGE: A space or place where goods, materials and/or personal property is
put for more than twenty four (24) hours.
STORY: That portion of a building included between the upper surface of any
floor and the upper surface of the floor next above, except that the topmost
story shall be that portion of a building included between the upper surface of
the topmost floor and the ceiling or roof above. If the finished floor level
directly above a usable or unused underfloor space is more than six feet (6')
above "grade" as defined herein for more than fifty percent (50%) of the total
perimeter or is more than twelve feet (12') above "grade" as defined herein at
any point, such usable or unused underfloor space shall be considered as a
story.
STORY, FIRST: The lowest story in a building which qualifies as a "story", as
defined herein, except that a floor level in a building having only one floor
level shall be classified as a first story, provided such floor level is not
more than four feet (4') below "grade", as defined herein, for more than fifty
percent (50%) of the total perimeter, or not more than eight feet (8') below
"grade", as defined herein, at any point.
STREET: Any thoroughfare or public way not less than sixteen feet (16') in
width which has been dedicated or deeded to the public for public use.
STREET FURNITURE: Manmade aboveground items that are usually found in street
rights of way, including benches, kiosks, plants, canopies, shelters and phone
booths.
STREET HARDWARE: Mechanical and utility systems within a street right of way
such as hydrants, manhole covers, traffic lights and signs, utility poles and
lines, parking meters and the like.
STREET, PRIVATE: A street that has not been accepted by the town or other
governmental agency.
STREETSCAPE: An urban design component that concentrates on making the road
system and road environment useful as an instrument in understanding and
organizing the urban development. It may be defined as the sensitive placement
of landscaping, signage, lighting and street furniture. Views, driver
orientation, meaningful visual sequences, and the design of compatible land use
edge conditions are essential objectives of a streetscape system. The primary
objective of a streetscape system is to design the major streets with a
consistent landscape pattern and appropriate scale to distinguish them from the
lesser streets and provide strong visual orientation for the driver.
STRIP DEVELOPMENT: Commercial or retail development, usually one store deep,
that fronts a street.
STRUCTURE: That which is built or constructed, an edifice or building of any
kind, or any piece of work artificially built up or composed of parts joined
together in some definite manner. (By this definition all buildings are
structures, however, not all structures are buildings.)
SUBDIVISION: The division, by any subdivider, of any unit or units of improved
or unimproved land, or any portion of land thereof, shown on the latest
equalized county assessment roll as a unit or as contiguous units, for the
purpose of sale, lease or financing, whether immediate or future, except for
leases of agricultural land for agricultural purposes (i.e., the cultivation of
food or fiber or the grazing or pasturing of livestock). Property shall be
considered as contiguous units even if separated by roads, streets, utility
easement or railroad rights of way. "Subdivision" includes a condominium
project, as defined in section 1350 of the Civil Code, or a community apartment
project, as defined in section 11004 of the California Business And Professions
Code or the conversion of five (5) or more existing dwelling units to a stock
cooperative, as defined in section 11003.2 of the California Business And
Professions Code. A conveyance of land to or from a governmental agency, public
entity, public utility, common carrier or subsidiary of a public utility for
conveyance to the public utility for rights of way shall not be considered a
division of land for the purpose of computing the number of parcels.
SUBSTANDARD HOUSING UNIT: A dwelling unit which is either dilapidated or unsafe
or does not have adequate plumbing or heating facilities, thus endangering the
health or safety of the occupant.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or
exceed seventy five percent (75%) of the market value of the structure before
the damage occurred.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any reconstruction, rehabilitiation, addition, or
other proposed new development of a structure the cost of which equals or
exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value before the start of
construction of the improvement. This term includes structures which have
incurred "substantial damage" regardless of the actual work performed.
SUPPORTIVE HOUSING: Housing with no limit on length of stay that is occupied by
a target population defined as having low incomes and one or more disabilities,
including mental illness, HIV or AIDS, substance abuse, or other chronic health
conditions, or individuals eligible for services provided under the Lanterman
development disabilities services act (division 4.5, commencing with section
4500 of California Welfare And Institutions Code). Target populations may
include, but are not limited to, adults, emancipated youth, families, families
with children, elderly persons, young adults aging out of the foster care
system, individuals exiting from institutional settings, veterans, and homeless
people. As defined in this development code, sexual offenders, parolees, or
persons on probation are not permitted to be housed in supportive housing
facilities. Supportive housing is linked to on site or off site services that
assist the supportive housing resident in retaining the housing, improving his
or her health status, and maximizing his or her ability to live, and when
possible, work in the community. See also definitions of Emergency Shelter,
Single Room Occupancy, Transitional Housing.
SWAP MEETS: Any indoor or outdoor place, location, or activity where new or
used goods or secondhand personal property is offered for sale or exchange to
the general public by a multitude of individual, licensed vendors usually in
compartmentalized spaces. A fee may be charged to prospective buyers for
admission, or a fee may be charged for the privilege of offering or displaying
such merchandise. The term swap meet is interchangeable with and applicable to:
flea markets, auctions, or other similarly named or labeled activities, but the
term does not include parking lot sales, indoor secondhand stores, indoor
antique stores, and the usual supermarkets or department store retail
operations.
SWIMMING POOLS, HOT TUBS AND SPAS: Any constructed or prefabricated water
filled vessel which is not drained, cleaned, or refilled for each individual,
and is used for swimming, soaking, or recreation. (Ord. 252, 11-18-2014; amd.
Ord. 326, 2-4-2025)
9.99.210: "T" DEFINITIONS:
TAKEOUT SERVICES: See definition of Eating And Drinking Establishments.
TEMPORARY USE: A use established for a specified period of time, with the
intent to discontinue the use at the end of the designated time period.
TENTATIVE MAP: A map made for the purpose of showing the design and
improvements of the proposed subdivision, to include the street pattern, lot
layout, easements that are to remain, and existing and proposed subdivision.
The tentative map need not be based upon an accurate or detailed final survey
of the property.
TERRACE: A level, landscaped and/or surfaced area, also referred to as a patio,
directly adjacent to a primary building and not covered by a permanent roof.
THRIFT STORE: See definition of Secondhand Store.
TOPOGRAPHY: Configuration of the surface of land, including its relief and the
position of natural and manmade features.
TOWN: The town of Yucca Valley.
TOWN OF YUCCA VALLEY GENERAL PLAN: The long range and comprehensive plan for
the orderly growth and development of Yucca Valley, including text, maps, and
amendments, adopted by the town council in accordance with the laws of the
state of California. Also referred to as the "general plan".
TOWNHOUSE; TOWNHOME: An attached single-family dwelling in which each unit has
its own front and rear access to the outside, no unit is located over another
unit, and each unit is separated from any other unit by one or more common and
fire resistant walls. Townhouses usually have separate utilities; however, in
some condominium situations, common areas are serviced by utilities purchased
by a homeowners' association on behalf of all members of the association.
TRANSFER STATION: A collection and transportation facility used by persons and
route collection vehicles to deposit collected solid waste from off site into a
larger transfer vehicle for transport to a solid waste handling facility.
Transfer station may also include recycling facility.
TRANSIENT BASIS: A continuous period of two (2) weeks or less.
TRANSIT: The conveyance of persons or goods from one place to another by means
of a local, public transportation system.
TRANSIT, PUBLIC: A system of regularly scheduled buses and/or trains available
to the public on a fee per ride basis. Also called mass transit.
TRANSITIONAL HOUSING: Shelter provided to the homeless for an extended period,
often as long as eighteen (18) months, and generally integrated with other
social services and counseling programs to assist in the transition to self-
sufficiency.
TRANSPORTATION DEMAND MANAGEMENT: A strategy for reducing demand on the road
system by reducing the number of vehicles using the roadways and/or increasing
the number of persons per vehicle. TDM attempts to reduce the number of persons
who drive alone on the roadway during the commute period and to increase the
number in carpools, vanpools, buses, trains, walking and biking.
TRAVEL SERVICES: Office establishments providing travel information and
reservations to individuals and businesses.
TRELLIS: An open framework or lattice used for training vines and climbing
plants.
TRIP: A one-way journey that proceeds from an origin to a destination via a
single mode of transportation; the smallest unit of movement considered in
transportation studies. Each trip has one production end (or origin, often from
home, but not always) and one attraction end (destination).
TRUCK DEPOT: A facility for the temporary storage, servicing, or maintenance of
trucks or buses. Truck depots may include fueling facilities, traffic routing
office, restaurants, wash racks, minor facilities and related business offices
and motels.
TRUCK PARKING PERMIT: The commercial vehicle parking permit issued by the town
of Yucca Valley.
TRUCK TERMINAL: An area and building where trucks load and unload cargo and
freight and where the cargo and freight may be aggregated into smaller or
larger loads for transfer to other vehicles or modes of transportation.
TRUCK-TRACTOR: A motor vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing another
vehicle and not so constructed as to carry a load other than a part of the
weight of the vehicle and load so drawn. As used in this section "load" does
not include items carried on the truck-tractor in conjunction with the
operation of the vehicle if the load carrying space for these items does not
exceed thirty four (34) square feet.
TRUCK YARD: A facility used exclusively for breaking down and assembling
tractor trailer transport, or for parking of heavy vehicles for short periods
of time. Truck yard does not include facilities for the loading and unloading
of materials being transported. (Ord. 252, 11-18-2014)
9.99.220: "U" DEFINITIONS:
UNDEVELOPABLE: Specific areas where topographic, geologic, and/or surface soil
conditions indicate a significant danger to future occupants and a liability to
the town are designated as undevelopable by the town.
URBAN DESIGN: The attempt to give form, in terms of both beauty and function,
to selected urban areas or to whole cities. Urban design is concerned with the
location, mass, and design of various urban components and combines elements of
urban planning architecture and landscape architecture.
USABLE COMMON OPEN SPACE: Areas that are readily accessible, practical and
generally acceptable for active and/or passive recreational use. Usable common
open space shall be devoted primarily to active recreational opportunities,
i.e., pool, court games, wading pools, barbecue area, or other recreational
facilities, for the common use of all residents.
USE: The purpose for which a lot or structure is or may be leased, occupied,
maintained, arranged, designed, intended, constructed, erected, moved, altered
and/or enlarged in accordance with this development code.
USE INITIATION: The implementation of a use on a parcel or occupancy of a
structure, or construction of substantial site improvements after a building
permit has been issued, subject to determination by the director.
USE, PRIMARY: The principal or predominant use of any lot or parcel.
UTILITIES: A. Major: Generating plants, electrical substations, aboveground
electrical transmission lines, microwave or cellular antennas, water
reservoirs, flood control or drainage facilities, water or wastewater treatment
plants, transportation facilities, and similar facilities of public agencies or
public utilities.
   B.   Minor: Utility facilities that are necessary to support legally
established uses and involve only minor structures such as electrical
distribution line and underground water and sewer lines. (Ord. 252, 11-18-2014)
9.99.230: "V" DEFINITIONS:
VARIANCE: A deviation from any provision of the zoning requirements except for
a land use activity, for a specific parcel without changing the zoning
ordinance or the underlying zoning of the parcel. A variance usually is granted
only upon demonstration of hardship based on the peculiarity of the property in
relation to other properties in the same zoning district.
VEHICLE: A device by which any person or property may be propelled, moved, or
drawn upon a highway, excepting a device moved exclusively by human power or
used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks. Trailers, semitrailers, and
truck- tractors are considered vehicles.
VIEW CORRIDOR: The line of sight identified as to height, width and distance of
an observer looking toward an object of significance to the community (e.g.,
ridgeline, river, historic building, etc.); the route that directs the viewer's
attention.
VIEWSHED: The area within view from a defined observation point.
VIOLATIONS: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this code. A structure or other development without the
elevation certificate, other certifications, or other evidence of compliance
required in this code is presumed to be in violation until such time as that
documentation is provided. (Ord. 252, 11-18-2014)
9.99.240: "W" DEFINITIONS:
WALL: The vertical exterior surface of a building; vertical interior surfaces
that divide a buildings space into rooms.
WAREHOUSING AND STORAGE FACILITY: A. Limited: A building or group of buildings
in a controlled access compound that contains individual compartmentalized
stalls which are rented or leased for the storage of customer goods or wares,
and which may include an on site manager's quarters, but excludes "warehousing
and storage, wholesale distribution". Limited warehousing and storage shall
also mean "miniwarehousing".
   B.   Wholesale Distribution: A building or group of buildings used for
storage and distribution of wholesale goods without direct public access.
Warehousing and storage does not include direct sales, offices, manufacturing,
and assembly of goods or animal storage.
WATERCOURSE: A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, arroyo, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
Watercourse includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
WETLAND: An area that is inundated or saturated by surface water or groundwater
at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that, under normal
circumstances, does support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for
life in saturated soil conditions, commonly known as hydrophytic vegetation.
WHEEL STOPS: Permanent devices that block the front wheels of a vehicle in a
parking stall.
WHOLESALE FOR RETAIL SALES: The exchange of goods not intended for direct sale
to the public but intended for future distribution and resale for financial or
other consideration.
WILDLANDS: Any area of land that is essentially unimproved, in a natural state
of hydrology, vegetation and animal life, and not under cultivation.
WIND ENERGY SYSTEM: A system that utilizes wind energy to pump a fluid or gas,
or to drive a mechanical device to generate electricity. Related wind energy
terms are defined as follows:
   A.   Accessory Wind Energy System: A wind energy conversion system
consisting of a wind turbine and blades, a tower, and associated control or
conversion electronics, which will be used primarily to reduce on site
consumption of utility power.
   B.   System Height: The combined height of the tower, the turbine and any
blade when at the twelve o'clock (12:00) position.
WIRELESS COMMUNICATION: A broad range of telecommunication services that enable
people and devices to communicate independent of location. This includes the
current technologies of cellular communications and personal communications
services. This excludes noncommercial antennas, radio, and television signals,
and noncommercial satellite dishes. Related wireless communication terms are
defined as follows:
   Antenna: Any system of dishes, panels, poles, reflecting disks, rods, and
wire or similar devices used for the transmission or reception of
electromagnetic signals.
   Antenna Height: The overall vertical distance from the base or pad to the
highest point of the antenna mounted on its support structure.
   Antenna Structure: Any structure, including mast, pole, or tower, whether
ground mounted or mounted on another structure that supports an antenna or an
array of antennas. The height of an antenna structure is measured to the
highest point of any antenna mounted upon it or to any higher point of the
antenna structure.
   Cell Site: A parcel of land that contains a wireless communication facility/
ies (WCFs).
   Collocation: The placement of two (2) or more WCFs on the same site,
building, or structure where each facility is operated by a different carrier,
operator, or owner.
   Lattice Tower: A guyed or self-supporting, three (3) or four (4) sided, open
frame structure used to support telecommunications equipment.
   Monopole: A freestanding antenna structure with antennas attached to it that
consists of a single shaft, including stealth designs (e.g., flagpoles,
monopalms, monopines) and has a single continuous footing designed to be self-
supporting without the use of any guywires.
   Mount: The structure or surface upon which antennas are mounted. There are
two (2) types of mounts: a) ground mounted - mounted on the ground, including,
but not limited to, monopoles, and b) structure mounted - mounted to the facade
or roof of an existing structure.
   Stealth And Stealthing: A WCF that is: a) not easily identifiable as a WCF
by a casual observer, and b) aesthetically compatible and blends with the cell
site and immediate surroundings. Stealthing may be achieved by any means or
combination of means including, but not limited to, the use of camouflage,
painting, screening, textures, or architectural integration with the
surroundings (e.g., a bell tower within a church or a church steeple, an
unobtrusive penthouse on a roof, false structure integrated into the design of
existing site or structure, false rock, or false tree amongst existing or new
vegetation).
   WCF Support Facilities: Any enclosed box, cabinet, shed, or structure
located on the cell site which houses, among other things, batteries,
electrical, or other equipment necessary for the operation of the WCF. This
shall apply to any associated structures deemed necessary for the operation of
the WCF.
   Whip Antennas: An omnidirectional antenna that is very thin, less than two
inches (2") in diameter, and not exceeding eighteen feet (18') in height.
   Wireless Communication Facilities - Height: The height of wireless
communication towers or poles shall be measured from natural, undisturbed
ground surface below the center of the tower or pole to the top of the highest
antenna or piece of equipment attached thereto. In the case of building mounted
facilities, the height shall include the height of the portion of the building
on which it is mounted.
   Wireless Communication Facility/ies (WCFs): Any collocated, ground mounted,
roof mounted, or stealth device or system used for transmitting and/or
receiving electromagnetic signals, including, but not limited to, microwaves
and radio waves for cellular technology, data transmission, e-mail, mobile
services, paging systems, personal communications services, and related
technologies. A WCF includes antennas, antenna structures, microwave dishes,
parabolic structures; WCF support facilities that house support equipment; and
other accessory development, equipment, improvements, and structures used to
support the operation of the WCF. (Ord. 252, 11-18-2014)
9.99.250: "X" DEFINITIONS:
Reserved. (Ord. 252, 11-18-2014)
9.99.260: "Y" DEFINITIONS:
YARD: An open space on a parcel of land, other than a court, unobstructed and
unoccupied from the ground upward, except for projections permitted by this
development code.
YARD, FRONT (SETBACK): An area extending across the full width of the lot
between the front lot line or the existing or future street right of way and
the front structural setback line.
YARD, REAR (SETBACK): An area extending across the full width of the lot
between the rear lot line and the rear structural setback line.
YARD, SIDE OR STREET SIDE (SETBACK): An area bounded by the front and rear
structural setback lines, the side lot lines or street right of way, and the
side or street side structural setback line. (Ord. 252, 11-18-2014)
9.99.270: "Z" DEFINITIONS:
ZERO LOT LINE: The location of a structure on a lot in such a manner that one
or more of the structure's sides rest directly on a lot line.
ZONING: The division of the town by legislative regulation into areas,
districts or zones, which specify allowable uses for real property and size
restrictions for structures within these areas; a program that implements the
policies of the general plan.
ZONING DISTRICT: A designated section of the town for which prescribed land use
requirements and building and development standards are uniform.
ZONING, EXCLUSIVITY: Development regulations that result in the exclusion of
low and moderate income families from a community.
ZONING, INCLUSIVENESS: Regulations which increase housing choice by providing
the opportunity to construct more affordable, diverse, and economical housing
to meet the needs of low and moderate income families.
ZONING MAP: The map or maps that are a part of the zoning ordinance that
delineate the boundaries of the zoning districts. (Ord. 252, 11-18-2014)
TITLE 10
ANIMALS
CHAPTER 10.02
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
10.02.010: Definitions
10.02.020: Mandatory Licensing
10.02.030: Restraint And Control Of Animals
10.02.040: Humane Animal Traps
10.02.050: Animal Bites And Quarantine Of Animals
10.02.060: Impoundment Of Animals
10.02.070: Animal Care
10.02.080: Animal Waste
10.02.090: Disposition Of Dead Animals
10.02.100: Preventive Measures Program
10.02.110: Public Nuisance Animals
10.02.120: Potentially Dangerous And Vicious Dogs
10.02.130: Performing Animal Exhibitions And Circuses
10.02.140: Registration And Care For The Keeping Of Exotic Animals
10.02.150: Commercial Animal Establishment Permits; Issuance And Revocation
10.02.160: Sentry Dog Owners And Businesses; Permits, Registration And Care
Requirements
10.02.170: Violations Declared A Nuisance
10.02.175: Pit Bulls
10.02.180: Report; Hearing On Assessment
10.02.190: Assessment Of Costs And Lien Against Property
10.02.200: Enforcement
10.02.210: Penalties
10.02.010: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context in which used requires otherwise, the following words shall
have the meanings set forth in this section. Variants of defined terms shall be
construed in the same manner set forth herein for the defined terms themselves.
ANIMAL: Every nonhuman species of animal, both domestic and wild.
ANIMAL AT LARGE: Any animal which is off the premises of its owner, custodian
or caretaker and which is not under physical restraint by leash of size and
material appropriate to the size and temperament of the animal and which is
held by a person capable of restraining the animal, or is not otherwise
physically restrained by some other device or instrument, the device or
instrument shall not include voice control, eye control or signal control of
the animal by any person.
ANIMAL SHELTER: Any facility operated by a humane society, or municipal agency
or its authorized agents, for the purpose of impounding animals under the
authority of this chapter or state law for care, confinement, return to owner,
adoption, or euthanasia.
AUCTION: Any place or facility where animals are regularly bought, sold, or
traded, except for those facilities otherwise defined in this chapter. This
section does not apply to individual sales of animals by private owners.
CIRCUS: A commercial variety show featuring animal acts for public
entertainment.
COMMERCIAL ANIMAL ESTABLISHMENT: Any pet shop, grooming shop, guard dog
auction, riding school or stable, zoological park, sentry dog business, or
boarding or breeding kennel open to the general public. This definition does
not apply to privately owned, not for hire ranches.
DOMESTICATED ANIMAL: An animal which has historically and commonly been tamed
for the use of man (e.g., horses, cows, sheep, dogs, pigs, and cats).
ENCLOSURE: Any structure used to immediately restrict an animal or animals to a
limited amount of space, such as a room, pen, run, cage, compartment or hutch.
EXOTIC ANIMAL: Any animal of the class aves (birds), class mammalia (mammals),
class amphibia (frogs, toads, salamanders), class osteichtyes (bony fishes),
class monorhina (lampreys), class reptilia (reptiles), class crustacea
(crayfish), or class gastropoda (slugs, snails) that are restricted by the
state of California.
GROOMING SHOP: A commercial establishment where animals are bathed, clipped,
plucked, or otherwise groomed.
GUARD OR ATTACK DOG: Any dog trained to guard, protect, patrol or defend any
premises, area or yard or any dog trained as a sentry or to protect, defend, or
guard any person or property, or any dog such as a schutzhund or any similar
classification.
HUMANE OFFICER OR ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER: Any person designated by the town of
Yucca Valley as a law enforcement officer who is qualified to perform such
duties under the laws of the state of California.
KENNEL OR CATTERY: Any premises wherein any person engages in the business of
boarding, breeding, buying, letting for hire, training for a fee, or selling
dogs or cats.
OWNER: Any person who is the legal owner, keeper, harborer, possessor or
custodian of the animal, or partnership or corporation owning, keeping, or
harboring one or more animals. A person registering as the owner on an animal
license or other legal document also establishes ownership. An animal shall be
deemed to be harbored if it is fed or sheltered for three (3) consecutive days
or more.
PERFORMING ANIMAL EXHIBITION: Any spectacle, display, act, or event, including
circuses, and petting zoos, in which performing animals are used.
PET OR COMPANION ANIMAL: Any animal kept for pleasure rather than utility; an
animal of a species that has been bred and raised to live in or about the
habitation of humans and is dependent on people for food and shelter.
PET SHOP: Any person, partnership, or corporation, whether operated separately
or in connection with another business enterprise (except for a licensed
kennel), that buys and/or sells, any species of animal.
POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG: Any dog, except a trained dog assisting a peace
officer engaged in law enforcement duties, which demonstrates any or all of the
following behavior:
   A.   Any dog which, when unprovoked on two (2) separate occasions, engages
in any behavior that requires a defensive action by any person, who is in a
place where they are conducting themselves peacefully and lawfully, to prevent
bodily injury when the person and the dog are off the property of the owner or
keeper of the dog.
   B.   Any dog which, when unprovoked, bites a person causing a less than
substantial physical injury as defined in this chapter.
   C.   Any dog which, when unprovoked, on two (2) separate occasions, has
seriously bitten, inflicted injury, or otherwise caused injury attacking a
domestic animal off the property of the owner or keeper of the dog.
   D.   Any dog which, when unprovoked has killed another animal off the
property of the owner or keeper of the dog.
   E.   A dog that creates a danger or constitutes a menace to the public's
health and safety due to its training or the inherent nature of the dog.
PROPERTY OWNER: Any person, corporation, partnership, limited liability company
owning any property in the town where any animal is kept, owned or harbored.
PUBLIC NUISANCE ANIMAL: Any animal or animals that unreasonably annoy humans,
endanger the life or health of other animals or persons, or substantially
interfere with the rights of citizens, other than their owners, to enjoyment of
life or property. The term "public nuisance animal" shall mean and include, but
is not limited to, any animal that:
   A.   Is repeatedly found at large or owner has received three (3) or more
court citations and/or notices of violation, on separate occurrences, for
running at large; or
   B.   Is impounded three (3) or more times;
   C.   Damages the property of anyone other than its owner;
   D.   Impedes the safety of pedestrians, passersby, bicyclists or motorists;
   E.   Makes excessive disturbing noise including, but not limited to,
continued and repeated howling, barking, whining, and other utterances
continued over so long a period of time as to disturb the peace and quiet of
nearby property or which would cause annoyance or discomfort to a reasonable
person of normal sensitivity in the area. This definition does not apply to
properly permitted commercial animal establishments;
   F.   Is offensive or dangerous to the public health, safety, or welfare by
virtue of the number and/or types of animals maintained; or attacks other
domestic animals;
   G.   Causes fouling of the air by odor and thereby creates unreasonable
annoyance or discomfort to neighbors or others in close proximity to the
premises where the animal is kept or harbored and/or causes unsanitary
conditions in enclosures or surroundings where the animal is kept or harbored.
RESTRAINT: Any animal secured by a substantial leash or lead or other similar
device and under the control of a person competent and capable to restrain such
animal, or within a vehicle being driven or parked or within a secure
enclosure.
RIDING SCHOOL OR STABLE: Any place that has available for hire, boarding, and/
or riding instruction, any horse, pony, donkey, mule, or burro; or any place
that regularly buys, sells, or trains the above animals.
SECURE ENCLOSURE: A fence, pen or structure suitable to securely and humanely
prevent the animal from escaping and to prevent the entry of young children or
any part, limb or appendage of any child, and unauthorized persons. The pen or
structure shall have secure sides and top that will protect the animal(s) from
the elements. All sides must be embedded at least two feet (2') into the ground
unless the bottom is adequately secured to the sides. The enclosure shall not
be less than five feet by ten feet (5' x 10') and not less than six feet (6')
high.
SENTRY DOG: A dog trained to work without supervision in a fenced facility and
to deter or detain unauthorized persons found within the facility.
SUBSTANTIAL PHYSICAL INJURY: A substantial impairment of the physical condition
of a person that requires professional medical treatment, including, but not
limited to: loss of consciousness, concussion, bone fracture, protracted loss
or impairment of function of any bodily member or organ, disfiguring
lacerations, wound requiring multiple sutures, or any injury requiring
corrective or cosmetic surgery.
VETERINARY HOSPITAL: Any establishment maintained and operated by a licensed
veterinarian for surgery, diagnosis, and treatment of diseases and injuries of
animals.
VICIOUS DOG: A. Any dog seized under Penal Code section 599(a) where a
conviction has been sustained against the owner or keeper of the dog under
Penal Code section 597.5(a).
   B.   Any dog which, when unprovoked, in an aggressive manner, inflicts
"substantial physical injury", as defined in this chapter, on or kills a human
being.
   C.   Any dog previously determined to be and currently listed as a
potentially dangerous dog which, after its owner or keeper has been notified of
said determination, continues said behavior or is maintained in violation of
this chapter.
ZOO: A zoological park or other collection of exotic animals which are raised,
bred, trained and/or maintained for on site display that is open to the general
public, education, tours and exhibitions and is accredited by the American Zoo
and Aquarium Association (AZA). (Ord. 138, 5-15-2003)
10.02.020: MANDATORY LICENSING:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, harbor, or have custody of
any dog over four (4) months of age within the town of Yucca Valley without
such dog having a currently valid license tag issued by or on behalf of the
town.
   B.   Written application for licenses, which shall include the name and
address of applicant, description of the animal, the appropriate fee, and
rabies certificate issued by a licensed veterinarian or antirabies clinic
showing a current vaccination shall be made to the licensing authority.
   C.   If not revoked, the licensing period shall run concurrently with the
rabies vaccination certificate.
   D.   Application for a license must be made within thirty (30) days after
obtaining a dog and may be made for a cat over four (4) months of age; this
requirement will not apply to a nonresident keeping a dog within the
municipality for not longer than sixty (60) days.
   E.   License fees shall not be required for certified seeing eye dogs,
hearing dogs, governmental police dogs, or other certified dogs that are
trained to assist the physically handicapped.
   F.   Upon acceptance of the license application and fee, the licensing
authority shall issue a durable tag, stamped with an identifying number. Tags
should be designed so that they may conveniently be fastened to the animal's
collar or harness.
   G.   Dogs must wear their own valid, current license at all times when off
the premises of the owners.
   H.   The licensing authority shall maintain a record of the identifying
numbers of all tags issued.
   I.   License fees and delinquent fines shall be established by resolution of
the town council.
   J.   No person may use any license for any animal other than the animal for
which it was issued.
   K.   Any rabies vaccination certificate issued for a vaccinated canine
hybrid (i.e., wolf hybrid) must identify the animal as a "domestic-wild animal
hybrid".
   L.   The licensing fee for all canine hybrids (i.e., wolf hybrid) shall
coincide with that of the town's domestic dog licensing program. (Ord. 138, 5-
15-2003)
10.02.030: RESTRAINT AND CONTROL OF ANIMALS:
   A.   Duty To Restrain Dogs On Property: No person in the town of Yucca
Valley owning, having possession, charge, custody or control of any dog shall
permit or allow such dog to stray or run at large upon any public street,
sidewalk, school ground, public park, playground, place of public assembly or
any other public place or without the consent of the owner or person in control
upon any private place or property.
   B.   Leash Laws: No person owning, having charge, care, custody or control
of any dog shall bring his dog out of his premises or property unless said dog
is secured by a substantial leash or lead and under the control of a person
competent and capable to restrain such dog provided that the provisions of this
subsection shall not apply to any official police dog while such dog is on duty
or any dog while engaged in herding and control of livestock, hunting sporting
purposes or competitive trials or training when under the immediate command and
control of the person in charge.
   C.   Impound: Any dog found running at large, running loose or unrestrained
may be impounded by an animal control officer or an officer of the San
Bernardino County sheriff's department for a period in accordance with
California state law. There shall be a reclaiming fee as set forth in a fee
schedule adopted by the town council.
   D.   Females In Season: No unspayed female dog or cat in estrus shall be
left so as to attract stray males.
   E.   Confinement Of Females: Every female dog or cat in heat shall be
confined in a building or secure enclosure in such a manner that such female
dog or cat cannot come into contact with another animal except for planned
breeding. (Ord. 138, 5-15-2003)
10.02.040: HUMANE ANIMAL TRAPS:
   A.   Animal control services and/or designee are authorized to place, upon
request, live capture animal traps on private or public property to trap and
remove stray, at large, abandoned or nuisance animals.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person other than an animal control officer and/
or designee to remove any animal from the trap or to damage, destroy, move, or
tamper with the trap. (Ord. 138, 5-15-2003)
10.02.050: ANIMAL BITES AND QUARANTINE OF ANIMALS:
   A.   Quarantine Of Biting Animals: Any animal which bites a human shall be
quarantined in accordance with state and local law.
   B.   Confinement Of Biting Animals: Upon receipt of a report that a person
has been bitten by an animal subject to rabies, animal control services is
empowered to enter upon any private property, including the home or residence
where the biting animal is kept or has strayed, to inspect and strictly
isolate, and to seize and impound if necessary, in a place and manner approved
by the animal control officer, any such animal.
   C.   Unlawful Removal Of Quarantined Animal: It shall be unlawful for any
person to remove from any place of isolation or quarantine, any animal which
has been isolated or quarantined under the provisions of this chapter, without
the consent and approval of the animal control officer.
   D.   Costs Incurred: Whenever any such owned biting animal is quarantined,
all expenses incurred in its confinement shall be the liability of the owner,
possessor or custodian of such biting animal.
   E.   Posting Of Quarantine Sign: It shall be unlawful for anyone to obstruct
the posting of a quarantine sign or to remove or destroy such a posted sign
prior to the end of the quarantine period of such animal unless approved by the
animal control officer.
   F.   Preventive Measures Authorized: If animal control services determines
that an animal has bitten a human being or animal, animal control services
shall have the authority to order any preventive measures necessary, as
described in this chapter.
   G.   Seizure Authorized: Animal control services shall have the authority to
seize and impound any animal should the owner; caretaker or keeper of the
animal fail to comply with the provisions of this chapter and applicable state
and local law.
   H.   Additional Confinement: Quarantined animals may be held an additional
time period if so determined by the animal control officer for reasons of
public and animal safety or in cases pending public nuisance, potentially
dangerous or vicious dogs or in accordance to any other applicable codes of
this chapter or state law. (Ord. 138, 5-15-2003)
10.02.060: IMPOUNDMENT OF ANIMALS:
   A.   Unrestrained dogs and nuisance animals may be taken by the police,
animal control officers, or humane officers and impounded in an animal shelter
and there be confined in a humane manner.
   B.   All impounded animals shall be held for the time period specified by
California state law unless an extended time is warranted and approved by the
animal control supervisor.
   C.   If, a license tag or other means can identify the owner of an impounded
animal identified, the impounding shelter and/or animal control officer shall
make a reasonable effort to notify the owner.
   D.   An owner reclaiming an impounded animal shall pay any fees and/or fines
as established by resolution of the town council. Notices of violation and/or
court citations may also be issued in conjunction with impoundment or
reclaiming of the animal.
   E.   Any animal not reclaimed by its owner within the time period specified
by California state law and/or in accordance to this chapter shall become the
property of the local government authority, impounding animal shelter or humane
society and shall be placed for adoption in a suitable home or humanely
euthanized.
   F.   In addition to, or in lieu of, impounding an animal found at large, the
animal control officer or police officer may issue to the known owner or
custodian of such animal a notice of violation, administrative citation or
court citation. Such citations shall impose upon the owner or custodian a fine
or penalty, as established by resolution of the town council.
   G.   The shelter director or designate shall keep complete and accurate
records of the care, feeding, veterinary treatment, and disposition of all
animals impounded at the shelter in accordance with state laws and with the
town of Yucca Valley. (Ord. 138, 5-15-2003)
10.02.070: ANIMAL CARE:
   A.   No owner shall fail to provide his animals with sufficient wholesome
and nutritious food, water in sufficient quantities, proper air, shelter space
and protection from the weather, veterinary care when needed to prevent
suffering, and humane care and treatment.
   B.   An animal shall not be overcrowded or exposed to temperatures
detrimental to the welfare of the animal.
   C.   No person shall beat, cruelly ill treat, torment, overload, overwork,
or otherwise abuse an animal, or cause, instigate, or permit any dogfight,
cockfight, bullfight, or other combat between animals or between animals and
humans.
   D.   No owner or person who is responsible for the care of an animal shall
abandon such animal.
   E.   Any person who, as the operator of a motor vehicle, strikes a domestic
animal shall stop at once and render such assistance as may be possible and
shall immediately report such injury or death to the animal's owner; in the
event the owner cannot be ascertained and located, such operator shall at once
report the accident to the appropriate law enforcement agency or animal control
facility.
   F.   No person shall expose any known poisonous substance, whether mixed
with food or not, so that the same shall be liable to be eaten by any domestic
animal.
   G.   Every person who keeps an animal confined in an enclosed area shall
provide it with an adequate exercise area.
   H.   No animal shall be allowed to exist or maintained in such a manner that
is, or could be, injurious to that animal.
   I.   If the animal is restricted by a leash, rope, chain or similar device,
the leash, rope, chain or similar device shall be affixed in such a manner that
it will prevent the animal from becoming entangled or injured and permit the
animal's access to adequate shelter, food and water. This definition does not
apply to an animal which is in transit, in a vehicle, or in the immediate
control of a person.
   J.   Every person who keeps a dog restricted by a leash, rope, chain or
similar device, as defined in this chapter, shall provide such dog with the
proper exercise and attention needed to help prevent the dog from becoming a
public nuisance and to provide relief of confinement.
   K.   Animals that are natural enemies, temperamentally unsuited or otherwise
incompatible, shall not be quartered together or so near each other as to cause
injury, fear or torment. (Ord. 138, 5-15-2003)
10.02.080: ANIMAL WASTE:
Except for equines being ridden on designated trails or rural public roadways,
the owner of every animal shall be responsible for the removal of any excreta
deposited by his animal(s) on public walks, recreation areas, or private
property. (Ord. 138, 5-15-2003)
10.02.090: DISPOSITION OF DEAD ANIMALS:
When any dog, animal or fowl owned by or in the custody or control of any
person or found in any person's private property dies, such person shall,
within twenty four (24) hours, provide for the burial, incineration, or other
disposition of the body of such dead animal or fowl by all lawful means and in
accordance to state and local law. (Ord. 138, 5-15-2003)
10.02.100: PREVENTIVE MEASURES PROGRAM:
   A.   Circumstances Requiring Special Preventive Measures: If an animal
control officer deems that immediate preventive measures are appropriate, the
animal control officer shall have the authority to require the person owning or
having possession, charge or custody or control of an animal to comply with
specific preventive measures, as described below, after taking into
consideration the following circumstances:
      1.   Nature Of Particular Animal: The behavior, size, temperament, breed,
capacity for inflicting serious injury, the number of animals or other such
similar factors which would be relevant to a determination of whether or not
additional preventive measures need to be imposed for a particular situation;
      2.   Adequacy Of Confinement: The adequacy of the enclosure or way of
confinement, if any; and
      3.   Immediate Surrounding Area: The likelihood that the conditions
pertaining to the particular animal and the animal's confinement are
detrimental to the safety or welfare of the citizens or the peace and
tranquility of citizens in the immediate surrounding area.
      4.   Additional Factors: In considering whether to order a special
preventive measure, the animal control section is authorized to consider
additional factors as aggravating circumstances that might warrant the ordering
of special preventive measures, including, but not limited to:
         a.   Child Under Thirteen Years Of Age: There is a child under
thirteen (13) years of age who lives in close proximity to the animal, or
children walk by or are otherwise in close proximity to the property occupied
by the animal;
         b.   Bite: The animal has bitten a human being or domestic animal
without provocation;
         c.   Attitude Of Attack Incident: The animal, without provocation, has
approached a person in an apparent attitude of attack;
         d.   Reputation Of Animal: The individual animal has a known
propensity, reputation, or tendency or disposition to attack unprovoked, to
cause injury or to otherwise endanger the safety of human beings or domestic
animals.
   B.   Court Citations: Any violation of a preventive order issued by an
animal control officer may result in a court citation in addition to
administrative action. (Ord. 138, 5-15-2003)
10.02.110: PUBLIC NUISANCE ANIMALS:
   A.   Nuisance Unlawful: It shall be unlawful for any owner, custodian or
caregiver to permit or allow his or her animal(s) to be a public nuisance, as
defined in this chapter.
   B.   Maintenance Of Nuisance: It shall be unlawful for any property owner to
permit or allow a "public nuisance animal" as defined in this chapter to be
kept, owned or harbored on its property.
   C.   Abatement Required: Such a public nuisance may be abated in accordance
with the procedures set forth in this chapter. These procedures are in addition
to any other remedies, which may be available under the law.
   D.   Enforcement Of Provisions:
      1.   Whenever an animal control officer determines that there exists
probable cause to believe that a animal may be or is a public nuisance, as
defined in this chapter, and/or has demonstrated behavior to a lesser degree as
defined under potentially dangerous dogs, of this chapter, the officer shall
conduct an investigation and schedule an administrative hearing to determine
whether or not the dog in question shall be declared a public nuisance.
   E.   Written Petitions; Investigation:
      1.   In the event an administrative hearing is requested to be scheduled
to determine if the animal in question shall be declared a public nuisance,
probable cause shall be determined by the following:
         a.   A direct observation by an animal control officer, code
compliance officer, peace officer; or
         b.   A written petition in which it is asserted by two (2) or more
persons having separate residences in a neighborhood that an animal is a public
nuisance as defined in this chapter; or
         c.   A written petition in which it is asserted by one or more
residents in a neighborhood that an animal is a public nuisance as defined in
this chapter; and
            (1)   Such resident(s) can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the
animal control officer that the resident(s) has made a good faith effort to
obtain the signatures of other residents in the neighborhood or can demonstrate
that it is not possible to obtain such signatures, as in the case where there
are less than two (2) occupied residences in the neighborhood; and
            (2)   Such resident(s) has provided to the satisfaction of the
animal control officer adequate and competent evidence in support of the claim
that the subject animal is a public nuisance within the meaning of this
chapter.
         d.   Petitions shall be signed by and bear the name, address and
telephone number of each complainant, shall state the place or places where the
nuisance exists, shall describe the animal(s) and the conduct which constitutes
the nuisance, and shall give the name and address of the animal's owners or
keepers, if known to complainants. Petitions shall be public records and open
to public inspection.
   F.   Notice To Owner To Abate Nuisance; Failure To Abate; Referral:
      1.   If the animal control officer determines that a petition filed
pursuant this section appears to be valid, he/she shall serve a notice to abate
nuisance upon the owner or keeper of the subject animal and the property owner
in accordance with subsection E of this section which shall inform the owner
and the property owner of the following:
         a.   That a petition has been received;
         b.   The nature of the complaints stated in the petition; and
         c.   The manner by which the nuisance must be abated within a
reasonable time.
         d.   A copy of the provisions of this chapter shall also be provided
to the owner or keeper and property owner with the notice to abate nuisance.
      2.   If the owner or keeper or property owner fails to abate the public
nuisance within the specified time, the animal control officer shall schedule
an administrative hearing.
      3.   All notices to property owner required by this chapter shall be
served by mailing to the property owner at the address shown on the last
available assessment roll or by personal service on the property owner and
shall be accompanied by a copy of this chapter.
   G.   Notification Of Administrative Hearing:
      1.   Animal control services shall notify the owner or the keeper of the
animal(s) and the property owner of the hearing at which time the owner or
keeper of the dog shall be given an opportunity to present evidence as to why
the dog should not be declared a public nuisance. Notice of the hearing and any
additional written evidence must be served upon the owner or keeper of the dog
personally or by first class mail, return receipt requested. Notice of the
hearing and any additional written evidence must be served on the property
owner in accordance with subsection F3 of this section. The hearing shall be
open to the public.
   H.   Temporary Impoundment Of Animal:
      1.   The animal control officer shall have the power to temporarily
impound the subject animal pending the outcome of an administrative hearing if:
         a.   After making a good faith effort, he/she is unable to contact the
animal's owner or keeper and determines, at the time of inspection, that the
offending noise, condition or behavior of the animal cannot be immediately
abated, and the peace and comfort of the neighborhood restored;
         b.   Determines, at the time of inspection, that the offending noise,
condition or behavior of the animal cannot be immediately abated and the peace
and comfort of the neighborhood restored; or
         c.   Determines that the public nuisance has not been abated within
the time specified in the notice to abate nuisance.
      2.   The owner of the animal shall be responsible for all costs of
impounding the animal(s), including, but not limited to, daily impoundment fees
and any costs incurred in providing care and maintenance of the animal.
      3.   In lieu of impounding an animal, the animal control officer may
permit the animal to be confined by the owner, at the owner's expense, in an
approved veterinary facility, kennel or other facility approved by the animal
control supervisor.
   I.   Administrative Hearing:
      1.   An impartial hearing officer who shall be appointed by the town
manager or designee shall conduct the administrative hearing. If the owner or
keeper of the animal and/or property owner fails to appear at the hearing the
hearing shall nevertheless proceed. At least one of the complainants and/or the
investigating animal control officer or representative in the matter must
appear and testify at the hearing.
   J.   Grounds For Determination Of Nuisance:
      1.   In making a determination that an animal is or is not a public
nuisance, the hearing officer shall consider the following evidence:
         a.   All petitions filed pursuant to the requirements of subsection E
of this section;
         b.   The testimony of persons residing or working in the area of the
place where the animal is kept;
         c.   The testimony of any investigating animal control, code
compliance or peace officer having contact with the subject animal or its
owner;
         d.   Video or tape recordings of the animal or of the place where the
animal is kept;
         e.   Any previous complaints, abatement orders, preventive measures
order, citations or convictions regarding the maintenance of a public nuisance
by the owner by reason of an animal's offending noise, condition or behavior;
         f.   The nature and extent of the animal's offending noise, condition
or behavior;
         g.   The manner in which the animal had been maintained by the owner;
         h.   The presence or absence of any provocation for the offending
noise, condition or behavior;
         i.   Whether the offending noise, condition or behavior can be
eliminated by effectively training or retraining the animal; and
         j.   Any other relevant evidence regarding the ability of the owner to
preserve the comfort, peace or quiet of the neighborhood if the animal is
permitted to remain in the town.
      2.   The hearing officer shall also consider all relevant evidence
including any mitigating evidence presented. However, hearings need not be
conducted according to technical rules relating to evidence or witnesses. Oral
evidence shall be taken on oath or affirmation.
   K.   Public Nuisance Declared; Notice Of Determination:
      1.   Upon completion of the hearing, the hearing officer's notice of
determination shall be mailed or served within ten (10) days of the hearing,
which notice of determination shall be final.
      2.   If animal is found to be a public nuisance, the owner or keeper of
the animal and property owner shall be personally liable and shall pay to the
seizing agency all administrative costs as set by resolution of the town
council, and impounding costs, boarding costs and/or other related costs
incurred.
      3.   No animal seized in accordance with this chapter shall be returned
to the owner until, in determination of the animal control officer, all
requirements set by the hearing officer are met for the keeping and maintenance
of the animals.
      4.   The owner or keeper of a public nuisance animal shall, within five
(5) days of such determination, make available said animal to animal control
services and allow photographs of the animal to be taken for purposes of
identification.
      5.   The following terms and conditions, while not limited to this
section, may be applied to the keeping and maintaining of any animal found to
be a public nuisance, in accordance to this chapter:
         a.   Confinement Of Animal(s): The hearing officer and/or animal
control officer can require fence installation and repair and other confinement
measures when these are deemed necessary.
         b.   Liability Insurance: The hearing officer and/or animal control
officer has the authority to require an animal's owner or keeper to obtain
liability insurance for the benefit of any person who may be injured by the
animal.
         c.   Registration: Town of Yucca Valley animal control services shall
include a designation of public nuisance animals in the registration records of
such animal.
         d.   Registration Fee: The owner or keeper shall pay an annual "public
nuisance animal registration fee", in addition to any regular license fee, if
applicable, as determined by resolution of the town council.
         e.   Confinement: While on the owner's or keeper's property the animal
shall be provided with an adequate exercise area and be confined in a securely
fenced and locked yard from which the animal cannot escape.
         f.   Use Of Leash: If the dog is restricted by a leash, rope or chain
on the property, the leash, rope or chain shall be affixed in such a manner
that it will prevent the dog from becoming entangled or injured and permit the
dog's access to adequate shelter, food and water.
         g.   Termination Of Ownership: The hearing officer can terminate
ownership rights in severe cases. Said determination is final.
      6.   If the animal dies, or is sold, transferred or permanently removed
from the town of Yucca Valley, the owner or keeper shall notify the town's
animal control services in writing of the changed circumstances and new
location if applicable of the dog within two (2) working days of the change.
      7.   The animal shall be removed from the list of public nuisance animals
if there are no additional instances of behavior as defined and identified in
this chapter within twelve (12) months after designation. The animal may be
removed earlier from the list of public nuisance animals if animal control
services determines that there have been sufficient changed circumstances.
      8.   Animal control services is authorized to make inspections deemed
reasonably necessary to ensure compliance with these provisions.
   L.   Disposition Of Public Nuisance; Removal Of Animal(s):
      1.   The hearing officer may order the owner or keeper of any animal
declared to be a public nuisance to remove the animal from the town by a date
certain if the owner:
         a.   Fails or refuses to abate the public nuisance within the time
period specified by the hearing officer;
         b.   Fails or refuses to reimburse the costs of abating the public
nuisance within specified time; or
         c.   Permits, suffers, or allows the public nuisance to occur again.
      2.   If the owner or keeper fails to remove the animal from the town by
such date, animal control services may impound the animal and not permit the
reclaiming or redemption of the animal by the owner unless adequate
arrangements acceptable to the animal control supervisor have been made by the
owner or keeper to ensure abatement of the public nuisance. Such arrangements
shall be agreed to in writing between the owner and the animal control
supervisor prior to and as a condition of release of the animal to its owner.
If such agreement is not made and executed within ten (10) days from the date
of impoundment, then the animal may be considered abandoned and may be handled
in the same manner as any other unclaimed stray animal.
      3.   If the written agreement referred to previously, in subsection L2 of
this section, is made and is subsequently breached by the owner, the animal
control supervisor may immediately order that the animal(s) be impounded and
not permit the reclaiming or redemption of the animal(s) by the owner unless
the owner can make adequate, written assurances acceptable to the animal
control supervisor that the owner shall commit no further violation of the
agreement. If such further assurances are not made and executed within ten (10)
days from the date of impoundment, then the animal may be considered abandoned
and may be handled in the same manner as any other unclaimed stray animal.
   M.   Prohibiting Ownership Of Animals:
      1.   Any person failing to comply with the hearing officer's order to
abate a public nuisance shall be prohibited from keeping or harboring within
the town an animal of the type, species, group or family to which the order
applies (including the animal initially causing the nuisance) for a period of
one year from the date of such noncompliance; provided however, that any person
prohibited from keeping or harboring an animal pursuant to this section shall
be entitled to an appeal to the hearing officer. The scope of any such appeal
hearing shall be limited to a determination regarding whether a failure to
comply with a hearing officer's order has occurred.
   N.   Waiver Of Rights To Avoid Hearing; Agreement To Comply:
      1.   Any owner or keeper of a dog may prepare a written statement and
waive his right to a hearing and agree to comply with the requirement of this
chapter regarding the keeping of a public nuisance animal.
   O.   Additional Legal Remedies:
      1.   In addition to the administrative proceedings under this section,
the town may alternatively to or in conjunction with the proceedings set forth
in this section commence a criminal action with respect to the nuisance in
addition to, alternatively to, or in conjunction with the proceedings set forth
in this section or pursue any and all other remedies legally available. (Ord.
138, 5-15-2003)
10.02.120: POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS AND VICIOUS DOGS:
   A.   Determination: Whenever an animal control officer determines that there
exists probable cause to believe that a dog is potentially dangerous or
vicious, the officer shall prepare a petition and schedule an administrative
hearing to determine whether or not the dog in question shall be declared
potentially dangerous or vicious. This section does not prohibit the animal
control officer from immediately issuing a "preventive measures order" for
confinement of animal(s) prior to requesting and/or scheduling an
administrative hearing.
      1.   Whenever possible, any complaint received from a member of the
public which serves as the evidentiary basis for the animal control officer to
find probable cause shall be sworn to and verified by and shall be attached to
the petition.
      2.   Animal control services shall notify the owner or the keeper of the
dog and the property owner of the hearing at which time the owner or keeper of
the dog shall be given an opportunity to present evidence as to why the dog
should not be declared potentially dangerous or vicious. Notice of the hearing
and a copy of the petition must be provided to the owner or keeper of the dog
either personally or by first class mail, return receipt requested. The hearing
shall be open to the public.
      3.   An impartial hearing officer who shall be appointed by the town
manager or designee shall conduct the hearing. If the owner or keeper of the
dog fails to appear at the hearing the hearing shall nevertheless proceed. At
least one of the complainants and/or the petitioning animal control officer or
representative in the matter must appear and testify at the hearing.
      4.   The hearing officer shall consider all relevant evidence including
any mitigating evidence presented. However, hearings need not be conducted
according to technical rules relating to evidence or witnesses. Oral evidence
shall be taken on oath or affirmation. Mitigating evidence may include the
following:
         a.   Threat, injury or damage was sustained by a person who at the
time was committing a wilful trespass upon the premises occupied by the dog,
was teasing, provoking, tormenting, abusing or assaulting the dog, or was
engaged in the commission of a crime.
         b.   The dog was protecting or defending a person within the immediate
vicinity of the dog from an unjustified attack or assault.
         c.   The dog was defending an attack from another animal or the other
animal was teasing, tormenting, abusing or assaulting the dog.
   B.   Potentially Dangerous Dogs: Any dog, which has been determined to be
potentially dangerous may only be maintained under the following terms and
conditions:
      1.   The dog shall be properly licensed with a conspicuously colored tag
and vaccinated and be designated potentially dangerous in the registration
records. The owner or keeper shall pay an additional annual registration fee to
be determined by resolution of the town council.
      2.   The owner shall, at his or her expense, have the vicious dog
microchipped or tattooed with an identifying mark or number by a licensed
veterinarian, and provide the dog's microchip number or tattoo number/mark and
appropriate paperwork to animal control services.
      3.   While on the owner's or keeper's property the dog shall be provided
with an adequate exercise area and shall be kept indoors, or in a securely
fenced and locked yard from which the dog cannot escape and into which children
cannot enter.
      4.   If the dog is restricted by a leash, rope or chain on the property,
the leash, rope or chain shall be affixed in such a manner that it will prevent
the dog from becoming entangled or injured and permit the dog's access to
adequate shelter, food and water.
      5.   The dog may be off the owner's or keeper's property only if the dog
is restrained by a substantial leash, no more than six feet (6') in length and
under the control of a responsible, competent and capable adult.
      6.   Any person keeping or harboring any potentially dangerous dog within
the town must provide proof of his/her ability to respond in damages to and
including the amount of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) by obtaining
a policy of insurance coverage in said amount for bodily injury to or death of
any person or persons or for damage to property owned by any other person which
may result from the ownership, keeping or maintenance of such animal. Proof of
liability shall be given by filing with animal control services, in a form
approved by the town attorney, a certificate of insurance issued by a solvent
corporation authorized to issue bonds under the laws of the state. Such
certificate of insurance or bond shall provide that no cancellation of the
insurance or bonds will be made unless thirty (30) days written notice is first
given to animal control services.
      7.   If the dog dies, or is sold, transferred or permanently removed from
the town of Yucca Valley, the owner or keeper shall notify the town's animal
control services in writing of the changed circumstances and new location if
applicable of the dog within two (2) working days of the change.
      8.   The dog shall be removed from the list of potentially dangerous dogs
if there are no additional instances of behavior as defined in section
10.02.010 of this chapter within thirty six (36) months after designation. The
dog may be removed earlier from the list of potentially dangerous dogs if
animal control services determines that there have been sufficient changed
circumstances so that the risk to public safety has been mitigated.
      9.   Upon completion of the hearing, the hearing officer shall issue a
notice of determination within ten (10) days of the hearing, which notice of
determination shall be final.
   C.   Vicious Dog: Any dog which has been determined to be vicious may be
destroyed or maintained as follows:
      1.   A dog determined to be a vicious dog may be destroyed by animal
control services when the hearing officer determines that the release of the
dog would create a significant threat to the public health, safety, and
welfare.
      2.   If it is determined that a dog found to be vicious shall not be
destroyed the dog may only be maintained under the following terms and
conditions:
         a.   All vicious dogs shall be properly licensed and vaccinated, with
the license being a conspicuously colored tag that shall be securely affixed to
the dog.
         b.   Town of Yucca Valley animal control services shall include a
designation of vicious in the registration records of such dog.
         c.   The owner or keeper shall pay an annual "vicious dog registration
fee", in addition to the regular license fee as determined by resolution of the
town council.
         d.   The owner shall, at his or her expense, have the vicious dog
microchipped or tattooed with an identifying mark or number by a licensed
veterinarian, and provide the dog's microchip number or tattoo number/mark and
appropriate paperwork to animal control services.
         e.   The owner or keeper of a vicious dog shall, within five (5) days
of such determination, make available said dog to animal control services and
allow photographs of the dog to be taken for purposes of identification.
         f.   A vicious dog shall also be spayed or neutered, at the owner's
expense, within thirty (30) days of such determination.
         g.   A vicious dog shall be confined in a secure "enclosure" as
defined in this chapter.
         h.   The owner shall conspicuously display signs with words or symbols
at least two inches (2") high warning of the presence of a vicious dog as
approved by animal control services.
         i.   While off the owner's or keeper's property, a vicious dog shall
at all times be restrained by a substantial leash that does not exceed six feet
(6') in length, and held under the control of a responsible adult. The dog
shall also wear a muzzle approved by the town of Yucca Valley animal control
services.
         j.   Any person keeping or harboring any vicious dog within the town
must provide proof of his/her ability to respond in damages to and including
the amount of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) by obtaining a policy
of insurance coverage in said amount for bodily injury to or death of any
person or persons or for damage to property owned by any other person which may
result from the ownership, keeping or maintenance of such animal. Proof of
liability shall be given by filing with animal control services, in a form
approved by the town attorney, a certificate of insurance issued by a solvent
corporation authorized to issue bonds under the laws of the state. Such
certificate of insurance or bond shall provide that no cancellation of the
insurance or bonds will be made unless thirty (30) days written notice is first
given to animal control services.
         k.   Animal control services is authorized to make inspections that
they deem reasonably necessary to ensure compliance with these provisions.
         l.   Any registered vicious dog shall be immediately impounded by a
town of Yucca Valley animal control officer if:
            (1)   The dog's registration is not properly maintained.
            (2)   Inspection by the animal control officer reveals that the dog
is not maintained in the required enclosure.
            (3)   The dog is outside the dwelling, or the defined enclosure of
the owner or keeper and not under the physical restraint and control of a
responsible adult.
   D.   Destruction Of Vicious Dogs:
      1.   Any dog determined to be a vicious dog may be humanely destroyed by
animal control services if it is found, after hearing procedures conducted in
accordance with this chapter, that release of the dog would create a
significant threat to the public health, safety, and welfare.
   E.   Ordered Removal Of Potentially Dangerous Or Vicious Dog:
      1.   The animal control supervisor may order the immediate removal of any
dog, by the owner or keeper of the dog(s) declared to be potentially dangerous
or vicious from the town by a date certain if the owner or keeper:
         a.   Fails or refuses to comply with the determination notice set by
the hearing officer within the time period specified within the notice;
         b.   Fails or refuses to reimburse any incurred costs within specified
time on notice of determination; or
         c.   Violates any part provided on the determination order while in
possession, control or custody of declared dog(s).
      2.   If the owner or keeper fails to remove the dog from the town by such
date, animal control services may seize and impound the dog and not permit the
reclaiming or redemption of the dog by the owner unless adequate arrangements
acceptable to the animal control supervisor to ensure removal of such dog are
made. Such arrangements shall be agreed to in writing between the owner and the
animal control supervisor prior to and as such condition of release of the dog
to its owner. If such agreement is not made and executed within five (5) days
from the date of the agreement, then the dog(s) shall be immediately impounded
and destroyed.
      3.   If the written agreement referred to in subsection B of this section
is made and is subsequently breached by the owner, the animal control
supervisor may immediately order that the dog(s) be impounded and destroyed.
      4.   Any person failing to comply with the hearing officer's order in
this section may be prohibited from keeping or harboring within the town an
animal of the type, species, group or family to which the order applies
(including the dog initially declared potentially dangerous or vicious) for a
period of three (3) years from the date of such noncompliance. There shall be
no appeal to the hearing officer in these types of cases.
   F.   Authority To Seize Dog Posing Immediate Threat To Public Safety:
      1.   If upon investigation it is determined by the animal control officer
that probable cause exists to believe the dog in question poses an immediate
threat to public safety, and/or the owner or keeper is unwilling or unable to
correct the situation immediately, then the animal control officer may seize
and impound the dog pending a hearing to be held pursuant to this chapter. The
dog shall be kept at an appropriate animal shelter designated by the town of
Yucca Valley animal control services.
      2.   The owner or keeper of the dog shall be liable to the town of Yucca
Valley for the costs of impounding and expenses of keeping the dog if the dog
is later found to be potentially dangerous or vicious in accordance to this
chapter.
      3.   Any dog held shall not be released, if found to be potentially
dangerous or vicious, until the owner pays all charges due within ten (10) days
of the determination made by the hearing entity. If the owner cannot pay these
charges or refuses to pay within the required time period, then the dog shall
be treated as unredeemed by the owner, and shall be humanely disposed of.
Disposal of the dog does not release the owner from his or her responsibility
to pay the imposed fees.
   G.   Conditions For Prohibiting Ownership Of A Dog:
      1.   The owner of a dog determined to be potentially dangerous or vicious
may be prohibited by animal control services from owning, possessing,
controlling, or having custody of any dog for a period of up to three (3)
years, when it is found, after proceedings conducted in this chapter, that
ownership or possession of a dog by that person would create a significant
threat to the public health.
   H.   Penalties And Costs:
      1.   If dog is found to be potentially dangerous or vicious, the owner or
keeper of the dog and/or property owner shall be personally liable and shall
pay to the town of Yucca Valley all administrative costs as set by resolution
of the town council, in addition to impounding costs, boarding costs and/or
other related costs incurred.
      2.   If incurred costs are not paid within time specified in the
determination notice, no permit and/or license for the dog shall be issued and/
or any current license will be revoked. Then the animal may be considered
abandoned and may be handled in the same manner as any other unclaimed stray
animal.
      3.   In addition to the administrative proceedings under this section,
the town may alternatively to or in conjunction with the proceedings set forth
in this section commence a criminal action with respect to the nuisance in
addition to, alternatively to, or in conjunction with the proceedings set forth
in this section or pursue any and all other remedies legally available.
      4.   If any person shall violate any provisions in this section he or she
may be fined an amount as set by the resolution of the town council.
      5.   No animal properly seized under this section shall be returned to
the owner until, as determined by animal control, all requirements set by the
hearing officer are met for the keeping and maintenance of the dog.
   I.   Failure To Conduct Administrative Hearing:
      1.   The failure or decision to not conduct an administrative hearing
required by this section shall have no bearing on any criminal prosecution for
violations of any provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 138, 5-15-2003)
10.02.130: PERFORMING ANIMAL EXHIBITIONS AND CIRCUSES:
   A.   No person may sponsor, promote, train a wild animal to participate in,
contribute to the involvement of a wild animal in, or attend as a spectator any
activity or event in which any wild animal engages in unnatural behavior or is
wrestled, fought, mentally or physically harassed, or displayed in such a way
that the animal is abused or stressed mentally or physically or induced or
encouraged to perform through the use of chemical, mechanical, electrical, or
manual devices in a manner that will cause or is likely to cause physical
injury or suffering. This prohibition applies to events and activities taking
place in either public or private facilities or property, and applies
regardless of the purpose of the event or activities and irrespective of
whether or not a fee is charged to spectators.
   B.   All equipment used on an exhibiting animal shall fit properly and be in
good working condition. (Ord. 138, 5-15-2003)
10.02.140: REGISTRATION AND CARE FOR THE KEEPING OF EXOTIC ANIMALS:
   A.   The keeping of exotic animals shall be in accordance with section
9.49.020 of this code.
   B.   Any exotic animal with a state fish and game caging requirement of
fifty (50) square feet or less and kept within an enclosed building shall be
permitted provided the applicant registers said animal(s) on a form to be
provided by the town's animal control services. The applicant must provide a
copy of the applicant's California department of fish and game permit for each
animal registered. (Ord. 138, 5-15-2003)
10.02.150: COMMERCIAL ANIMAL ESTABLISHMENT PERMITS; ISSUANCE AND REVOCATION:
   A.   No person, partnership, or corporation shall operate a commercial
animal establishment or animal shelter or sentry dog business without first
obtaining a permit in compliance with this chapter and local and state law.
This does not apply to privately owned, not for hire ranches.
   B.   All commercial animal establishments shall comply with town and state
laws regarding proper care and maximum number of animals.
   C.   Prior to setting up any commercial animal establishment, the property
owner or lessee shall first obtain all applicable permits through the town of
Yucca Valley community development department.
   D.   When a permit applicant has shown that he/she is willing and able to
comply with the regulations, a permit shall be issued upon payment of the
applicable fee.
   E.   The permit period shall be effective for one year. Renewal applications
for permits shall be made thirty (30) days prior to the expiration of the
permit. Application for a permit to establish a new commercial animal
establishment under the provisions of this chapter may be made at any time.
   F.   If there is a change in ownership of a commercial animal establishment,
the new owner may have the current permit transferred to his name upon payment
of a transfer fee as determined by resolution of the town council.
   G.   Annual permits shall be issued upon payment of the applicable fee as
determined by resolution of the town council.
   H.   Every facility regulated by this chapter shall be considered a separate
enterprise requiring an individual permit.
   I.   Persons operating kennels for the breeding of dogs shall license all
dogs individually.
   J.   No fee may be required of any veterinary hospital or animal shelter, or
government operated zoological park.
   K.   Failure to obtain a commercial animal establishment permit before
opening any facility covered in this section shall result in a fine to be
established by resolution of the town council.
   L.   Any person who changes the category under which a permit was issued
shall be subject to a reclassification and readjustment of the permit fee.
   M.   After an application for a permit is filed, the animal control officer
shall inspect the facility prior to the issuance of a commercial animal
establishment permit to ensure compliance with all applicable standards of
care.
   N.   Any person whose permit or license is revoked shall, within thirty (30)
days thereafter, sell place or humanely dispose of all animals owned, kept, or
harbored under the revoked permit or license. No part of the permit or license
fee shall be refunded.
   O.   It shall be a condition of the issuance of any permit or license that
the animal control officer, subject to law, shall be permitted at any
reasonable time to inspect all animals and the premises where animals are kept
and, if permission for such inspection is refused, may revoke the permit or
license of the refusing owner.
   P.   If the applicant has withheld or falsified any information on the
application, animal control services may refuse or revoke a commercial animal
establishment permit.
   Q.   No person who has been convicted of cruelty to animals shall be issued
a permit or license to operate a commercial animal establishment.
   R.   Any person having been denied a license or permit may not reapply for a
period of thirty (30) days. A fee as established by resolution of the town
council shall accompany each reapplication. (Ord. 138, 5-15-2003)
10.02.160: SENTRY DOG OWNERS AND BUSINESSES; PERMITS, REGISTRATION AND CARE
REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions apply:
   DOG HANDLER: Any person trained in the handling of dogs whose training
includes the care, feeding and maintenance of dogs and the procedures necessary
to control the behavior of a dog subject to this chapter.
   GUARD OR ATTACK DOG: Any dog trained to guard, protect, patrol or defend any
premises, area or yard or any dog trained as a sentry or to protect, defend, or
guard any person or property, or any dog such as a schutzhund or any similar
classification.
   HIRE: Shall include, but not be limited to, the renting or leasing of the
services of a dog with or without a dog handler, or a sale of a dog with an
option to repurchase.
   NARCOTIC DETECTION DOG: Any dog trained to locate narcotics by scent.
   OWNER: Any person who has purchased or obtained legal custody of an attack,
guard or sentry dog.
   PERSON: Any individual, partnership, firm, joint stock company, cooperation,
association, trust, estate, or other legal entity.
   SENTRY DOG: Any dog trained to work without supervision in a fenced facility
and to deter or detain unauthorized persons found within the facility.
   SENTRY DOG BUSINESS: Any person who agrees to furnish trained sentry,
attack, or narcotic detection dogs for hire.
   TRACKER DOG: Any dog trained to work with a handler in searching facilities
for burglary suspects and other intruders.
   TRAINER: Any person who engages in the practice of training any attack,
guard, or sentry dog.
   B.   Registration Of Sentry Dogs; Commercial Animal Establishment Permit:
      1.   Dog Registration Required: Each sentry dog business and/or person
and/or owner shall register each dog subject to this chapter that it handles
with the town of Yucca Valley animal control services.
      2.   Commercial Animal Establishment: Any person or owner of an attack,
guard or sentry dog that operates or maintains a business to sell, rent or
train an attack, guard or sentry dog shall obtain a commercial animal
establishment permit from animal control services for animal care or protection
services.
      3.   Registration By Owner: Any person or owner who has purchased or
obtained legal custody of a sentry, guard or attack dog shall register said dog
(s) with the town on a form to be provided by the town's animal control
services.
      4.   Permit Process: The process for obtaining a commercial animal
establishment permit are set forth under the "commercial animal establishment
permits; issuance and revocation" included within this chapter.
         a.   Special Use Permits: In the event the animal density exceeds the
number allowed, as established by section
 9.49.040 of this code, a special use permit must be obtained.
         b.   List Of Animals: An applicant, when applying for a permit
pursuant to this section shall furnish animal control services with a list of
the types of animals to be kept or used for any purpose, with the estimated
maximum number of animals to be kept.
         c.   Sale Registry: Any permittee shall maintain a register of the
name and address of any person from whom any animal is received and to whom any
animal is sold, traded or given. This list shall be available to animal control
services upon demand.
      5.   Proof Of Dog Registration: All applicants must provide a proof of
registration to animal control services that each dog is registered as a
sentry, guard or attack dog with the local law enforcement agency and the local
fire department for where the dog is.
      6.   Emergency Contact: All applicants shall furnish animal control
services with the name and telephone number of a responsible person who has
access to the animals and who can be reached during an emergency.
      7.   Keeping Animals With Permit; Notification: All applicants shall
notify animal control services when any animal for which a permit is required
is kept or maintained.
      8.   Report Information Changes: All applicants shall report in writing
any change in address, ownership or management to animal control services at
least fifteen (15) days prior to change.
      9.   Physical Control: The persons or owners of any sentry, guard or
attack dog(s) or sentry dog business must ensure that adequate physical control
of such animal is provided during operational hours to prevent the animal from
coming in contact with the general public on the premises. If the dog bites a
person who is not a trespasser, the animal control supervisor has the authority
to prohibit the dog from acting as a sentry, guard or attack dog within the
town limits. It shall be unlawful for any owner or person or business to use
such a dog as a sentry, attack or guard dog after the supervisor has prohibited
said use.
      10.   Permit And Registration Fees: Annual permit and registration fees
shall be issued upon payment of the applicable fee as determined by resolution
of the town council.
         a.   The permit or registration period shall be effective for one
year. Renewal applications for permits or registrations shall be made thirty
(30) days prior to the expiration of the permit or registration.
         b.   If there is a change in ownership of a registered sentry, guard
or attack dog, the new owner may have the current registration transferred to
his name upon payment of a transfer fee as determined by resolution of the town
council.
         c.   After an application for a permit or registration is filed, the
animal control officer shall inspect the premises prior to the issuance of the
permit or registration to ensure compliance with all applicable standards.
         d.   It shall be a condition of the issuance of any permit or
registration that animal control services, subject to law, shall be permitted
at any reasonable time to inspect all animals and the premises where animals
are kept and, if permission for such inspection is refused, may revoke the
registration and/or dog license of the refusing owner.
         e.   No person who has been convicted of cruelty to animals shall be
issued a registration to own any animal described in this section.
   C.   Care Requirements For Sentry Dogs:
      1.   In addition to the codes under section
10.02.070, "Animal Care", of this chapter, all sentry dogs shall be kept and
maintained by owner, person, permittee, and/or registrant as follows:
         a.   No animal shall be without care or control in an excess of twelve
(12) consecutive hours.
         b.   All reasonable precautions shall be taken to ensure that no
animal is teased, abused, mistreated, annoyed, tormented, or in any manner made
to suffer by any person or any means.
         c.   The permittee or registrant shall keep or maintain each animal in
a manner as may be prescribed to protect the public from the animal and the
animal from the public.
         d.   Animal control services may order any animal to be taken to a
veterinarian for examination and treatment.
         e.   The permittee or registrant shall allow no animal to constitute
or cause a hazard or be a public animal nuisance or menace to the health,
peace, or safety of the community.
         f.   The permittee or registrant shall have full responsibility for
recapturing any animal that escapes.
   D.   Permit Or Registration May Be Suspended Or Revoked:
      1.   The town of Yucca Valley may suspend or revoke a commercial animal
establishment permit or registration issued under this section if it is
determined that the permittee has done any one of the following:
         a.   Made any false statement or given any false information in
connection with an application for a license, permit or a renewal or
reinstatement thereof.
         b.   Violated any provisions of this section or related sections of
this chapter.
         c.   Violated any rule of an ordinance adopted pursuant to the
authority contained in this section.
         d.   Committed any other act that would be grounds for denial of a
permit.
   E.   Aggression Training:
      1.   Animal control services has the authority to determine whether any
person, owner or business entity is engaged in the aggression training of dogs.
If such a determination is made, then the person, owner or business entity
shall comply with the applicable codes of this section.
   F.   Violations, Penalties And Costs:
      1.   It is the sole responsibility of any permittee, owner or person to
be in compliance with all applicable California state laws that pertain to
sentry, attack or guard dogs.
      2.   California Health And Safety Code sections 121940 and 121945 and any
amendments to same are incorporated by references as though fully set forth.
(Ord. 138, 5-15-2003)
10.02.170: VIOLATIONS DECLARED A NUISANCE:
Any violation of this chapter is considered a nuisance and may be abated as
such in the manner provided by law and all such costs involved shall be billed
to the owner or owners of the animal and the property owner.
   A.   Upon completion of the abatement, the town manager shall cause a
statement of the costs thereof to be prepared for submission to the town
council. The town manager shall set a time and place for the town council to
receive and consider the statement of costs, and shall serve on the owner and
owners of the property a copy of the statement of costs and a notice of the
time and place at which the town council will receive and consider the
statement of costs. The statement of costs and the notice of hearing shall be
served on the owner(s) of the property in accordance with subsection
10.02.110F3 of this chapter. (Ord. 138, 5-15-2003)
10.02.175: PIT BULLS:
   A.   Purpose And Intent: Pit bull breeds and pit bull mixes constitute a
majority of unadopted dogs held in animal shelters. It is the purpose and
intent of this section that no person shall own or keep a "pit bull" (as
defined below) over the age of four (4) months which has not been spayed or
neutered, except as identified in subsection E of this section.
   B.   Definitions: For purposes of this section, "pit bull" is defined as any
Staffordshire bull terrier, American pit bull terrier or American Staffordshire
terrier breed of dog, or any mixed breed of dog which contains, as an element
of its breeding, any of these breeds so as to be identifiable as partially of
the breed of Staffordshire bull terrier or American pit bull terrier or
American Staffordshire terrier, any dog displaying the physical traits of any
one or more of the above breeds, or any dog exhibiting those distinguishing
characteristics that conform to the standards established by the American
Kennel Club ("AKC") or United Kennel Club ("UKC") for any of the above breeds.
   C.   Determination Of The Breed:
      1.   If an owner, guardian or keeper is unsure as to whether or not his/
her unspayed and/or unneutered dog is a pit bull, she/he may make an
appointment with their veterinarian to determine as to whether or not the dog
is a "pit bull", as defined in this section. Proof of determined breed(s) shall
be provided to town of Yucca Valley animal care and control services and will
be kept on file with the licensing record.
      2.   If an owner, guardian or keeper is unsure as to whether or not his/
her unspayed and/or unneutered dog is a pit bull and does not wish to use a
veterinarian to determine as to whether or not the dog is a pit bull then he/
she may make an appointment with animal care and control services at which a
staff member shall make a determination as to whether or not the dog is a pit
bull. If the dog owner, guardian or keeper wishes to appeal the determination
the dog is a pit bull, within five (5) business days of the staff member's
determination he/she may request a hearing before the animal care and control
manager or his/her designee. The hearing shall be no more than thirty (30) days
after the manager receives the request. The hearing may be informal and the
rules of evidence are not strictly observed. The decision of the manager or
his/her designee is final.
   D.   Mandatory Spaying And Neutering Of Pit Bulls And Pit Bull Types:
Pursuant to California Health And Safety Code 122331, no person shall own or
keep a "pit bull" or pit bull type dog, as defined in this section, over the
age of four (4) months which has not been spayed or neutered. This spay/neuter
requirement does not apply to that class of pit bulls identified in subsection
E of this section.
   E.   Exceptions: The following pit bulls are exempt from the spay/neuter
requirement set forth in subsection D of this section: 1) a purebred
Staffordshire bull terrier, purebred American pit bull terrier or purebred
American Staffordshire terrier, recognized by, and registered with, the
American Kennel Club (AKC), United Kennel Club (UKC) for which proof of
registration shall be provided to town of Yucca Valley animal care and control
services; 2) a dog used by a law enforcement agency for law enforcement
purposes; 3) a qualified service or assistance dog as defined in Food And
Agricultural Code section 30850; or 4) a dog which is unable to be spayed or
neutered without a high likelihood of suffering serious bodily harm or death
due to age or infirmity in which the owner or keeper of such dog provides to
the animal control officer written confirmation of the condition from a
licensed veterinarian.
   F.   Enforcement And Penalties: In accordance with section 836.5 of the
California Penal Code, the civil and criminal provisions of this section may be
enforced by those persons or agencies designated by municipal authority.
Violations of this section may also be punishable in accordance with title 1,
chapter 1.02, sections
1.02.010 through
1.01.090 of this code. It shall be a violation of this section to interfere
with the animal control officer in the performance of his/her duties.
   G.   Reporting Requirements: As required by California Health And Safety
Code section 122331(b), the animal control officer shall measure the effect of
this section by compiling statistical information on dog bites. The information
shall, at a minimum, identify dog bites by severity, the breed of the dog
involved, whether the dog was altered, and whether the breed of dog was subject
to the spay/neuter program established hereby. These statistics shall be
submitted quarterly to the state public health veterinarian. (Ord. 244, 10-15-
2013)
10.02.180: REPORT; HEARING ON ASSESSMENT:
At the time and place set for receiving and considering the statement of costs,
the town council shall hear and pass upon the statement together with any
objections or protests raised by any of the persons liable to be assessed for
the cost of abating the nuisance. Thereupon, the town council may make any such
revision, correction or modification to the statement of costs as it may deem
appropriate, after which the statement as submitted, or as revised, corrected
or modified, shall be confirmed by resolution. Such hearing may be continued
from time to time. The decision of the town council shall be final. The town
clerk shall give notice of the town council's decision regarding the statement
of costs to the owner(s) of said property in the manner set forth of subsection
10.02.110F3 of this chapter. (Ord. 138, 5-15-2003)
10.02.190: ASSESSMENT OF COSTS AND LIEN AGAINST PROPERTY:
The costs of abatement of a nuisance, as confirmed by resolution of the town
council, shall constitute a special assessment against the property to which it
relates, and after its recording, as thus made and confirmed, the same shall
constitute a lien on said property in the amount of such assessment. After the
confirmation of the statement, a copy thereof shall be recorded in the official
records of San Bernardino County and shall be transmitted to the assessor and
tax collector of the county of San Bernardino by the town clerk. Whereupon it
shall be the duty of said assessor and tax collector to add the amount of such
assessment, or assessments, to the next regular bills of taxes levied against
the said respective lot or parcel of land, and thereafter said amount shall be
collected at the same time and in the same manner as ordinary real property
taxes are collected, and shall be subject to the same penalties and the same
procedure for foreclosure and sale in the case of delinquency as provided for
ordinary real property taxes. (Ord. 138, 5-15-2003)
10.02.200: ENFORCEMENT:
In accordance with section 836.5 of the California Penal Code, the civil and
criminal provisions of this chapter shall be enforced by those persons or
agencies designated by municipal authority. It shall be a violation of this
chapter to interfere with the animal control officer in the performance of his/
her duties. (Ord. 138, 5-15-2003)
10.02.210: PENALTIES:
Violations of this chapter shall be punishable in accordance with sections
1.02.010 through
1.02.050 of this code. (Ord. 138, 5-15-2003)
TITLE 11
PEACE, MORALS AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 11.10
VEHICLE ABATEMENT
SECTION:
11.10.010: Findings
11.10.020: Effect Of Chapter
11.10.030: Definitions
11.10.040: Exceptions
11.10.050: Violation
11.10.060: Administration; Nuisance Declared
11.10.070: Notice Of Intention To Abate
11.10.080: Hearing And Procedures
11.10.090: Removal Of Vehicle
11.10.100: Notice To Responsible Agencies
11.10.110: Abatement Costs; Lien
11.10.010: FINDINGS:
In addition to and in accordance with the determinations made herein, and the
authority granted by the State under California Vehicle Code section 22660 to
remove abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicles or parts thereof
as public nuisances, the Town Council makes the following findings and
declarations: the accumulation and storage of abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or
inoperative vehicle or parts thereof on private or public property, not
including highways, is found to create conditions tending to reduce the value
of private property, to promote blight and deterioration, to invite plundering,
to create fire hazards, to constitute an attractive nuisance creating a hazard
to the health and safety of minors, to create a harborage for rodents and
insects, and to be injurious to the health, safety and general welfare.
Therefore, the presence of an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative
vehicle, or parts thereof, on private or public property, not including
highways except as expressly permitted in this Chapter, is declared to
constitute a public nuisance which may be abated as such in accordance with the
provisions of this Chapter. (Ord. 75, 7-11-1996)
11.10.020: EFFECT OF CHAPTER:
This Chapter is not the exclusive regulation for the abatement of abandoned,
wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicles within the Town. It shall
supplement and be in addition to the other regulatory codes, statutes and
ordinances heretofore or hereafter enacted by the Town, the State or any other
legal entity or agency of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 75, 7-11-1996)
11.10.030: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter:
HIGHWAY: A way or place of whatever nature, publicly maintained and open to the
use of the public for purpose of vehicular travel. "Highway" includes streets.
OWNER OF THE LAND: The owner of the land on which the vehicle, or parts
thereof, are located, as shown on the last equalized assessment roll.
OWNER OF THE VEHICLE: The last registered owner and last legal owner of record
of the vehicle.
PUBLIC PROPERTY: Does not include "highway".
TOWN MANAGER: The Town Manager of Yucca Valley or his designee.
VEHICLE: A device by which any person or property may be propelled, moved or
drawn upon a highway, except a device moved by human power or used exclusively
upon stationary rails or tracks. (Ord. 75, 7-11-1996)
11.10.040: EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   This Chapter shall not apply to the following:
      1.   Stored Vehicles: A vehicle or parts thereof that is completely
enclosed within a building in a lawful manner where it is not visible from the
street or other public or private property; or
      2.   Lawfully Conducted Business: A vehicle or parts thereof that is
stored or parked in a lawful manner on appropriately zoned private property in
connection with the business of a licensed dismantler, licensed vehicle dealer
or junkyard.
   B.   Nothing in this Section shall authorize the maintenance of a public or
private nuisance as defined under provisions of law other than California
Vehicle Code division 11, chapter 10 commencing with section 22650 and this
Chapter. (Ord. 75, 7-11-1996)
11.10.050: VIOLATION:
   A.   It is unlawful and a violation of this Code for any person to abandon,
park, store or leave or permit the abandonment, parking, storing or leaving of
any licensed or unlicensed vehicle or parts thereof which is in an abandoned,
wrecked, dismantled or inoperative condition upon any private or public
property, not including highways, within the Town for a period in excess of
seventy two (72) hours unless the vehicle or parts thereof is completely
enclosed within a building in a lawful manner where it is not plainly visible
from the street or other public or private property, or unless the vehicle is
stored or parked in a lawful manner on appropriately zoned private property in
connection with the business of a licensed dismantler, licensed vehicle dealer
or a junkyard.
   B.   It is unlawful and a violation of this Code for any person to fail or
refuse to remove any abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicle, or
parts thereof, or refuse to abate the nuisance when ordered to do so in
accordance with the abatement provisions of this Chapter or State law, where
State law is applicable. (Ord. 75, 7-11-1996)
11.10.060: ADMINISTRATION, NUISANCE DECLARED:
Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter, the provisions of this Chapter
shall be administered and enforced by the Town Manager. In the enforcement of
this Chapter, the Town Manager may, subject to applicable law, enter upon
private or public property to examine a vehicle or parts thereof or to obtain
information as to the identity of a vehicle. The Town Manager may thereafter
declare such vehicle or parts thereof to constitute a nuisance and remove or
cause the removal of such vehicle or parts in accordance with the provisions of
this Chapter. (Ord. 75, 7-11-1996)
11.10.070: NOTICE OF INTENTION TO ABATE:
   A.   Upon discovering the existence of an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or
inoperative vehicle, or parts thereof, on private property or public property
within the Town, the Town Manager shall have the authority to determine that a
public nuisance exists and to cause the abatement and removal thereof in
accordance with the procedure prescribed herein.
   B.   A ten (10) day notice of intention to abate and remove the vehicle, or
parts thereof, as a public nuisance shall be mailed by registered or certified
mail to the owner of the land and to the owner of the vehicle, except that if
the vehicle is in such condition that identification numbers are not available
to determine ownership, notice shall be sent only to the owner of the land. The
notices of intention shall be substantially as provided in the forms on file
with the Town Clerk. (Ord. 75, 7-11-1996; amd. 2000 Code)
11.10.080: HEARING AND PROCEDURES:
   A.   Hearing On Abatement, Costs: If the owner of the land or the owner of
the vehicle files a written request therefor with the Town Manager within ten
(10) days after the mailing of the notice of intention to abate, a public
hearing shall be held on the question of abatement and removal of the vehicle
or parts thereof as an abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicle,
and the assessment of the administrative costs and the cost of removal of the
vehicle or parts thereof against the property on which it is located. Notice of
hearing shall be mailed at least ten (10) days before the hearing by registered
or certified mail, to the owner of the land as shown on the last equalized
assessment roll and to the last registered and legal owner of record unless the
vehicle is in such condition that identification numbers are not available to
determine ownership. Service shall be deemed complete at the time notice is
personally served or deposited in the mail. Failure of any person to receive
notice shall not affect the validity of any proceedings hereunder. Notice shall
be substantially as provided in the form on file with the Town Clerk. (Ord. 75,
7-11-1996; amd. 2000 Code)
   B.   Abatement Without Hearing: If no written request for a public hearing
is received by the Town Manager within the time allowed, the Town Manager,
shall have the authority to abate and remove the vehicle or parts thereof
without a hearing.
   C.   Notice Of Hearing To Highway Patrol And Chief Of Police: Notice of
hearing shall also be given to the California Highway Patrol and to the Chief
of Police of the Town, identifying the vehicle or parts thereof proposed for
removal, such notice to be mailed at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing.
   D.   Hearing Officer: All hearings under this Chapter shall be held before a
hearing officer. The hearing officer shall be appointed by the Town Manager.
   E.   Hearing Officer Powers And Duties: The hearing officer shall hear all
facts and testimony deemed pertinent. The facts and testimony may include
testimony on the condition of the vehicle or parts thereof and the
circumstances concerning its location on the private property or public
property. The hearing officer shall not be limited by the technical rules of
evidence, but may consider any evidence upon which a prudent person might rely
in arranging his own affairs. The owner of the land on which the vehicle is
located may appear in person at the hearing or present a written statement in
time for consideration at the hearing, and deny responsibility for the presence
of the vehicle on the land, with his reasons for such denial.
   F.   Findings And Determination By Hearing Officer: The hearing officer may
impose such conditions and take such other action he deems appropriate under
the circumstances to carry out the purpose of this Chapter. The hearing officer
may delay the time for removal of the vehicle or parts thereof if, in his
opinion, the circumstances so justify. At the conclusion of the public hearing,
the hearing officer may find that a vehicle or parts thereof has been
abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or is inoperative on private or public property
and order it removed from the property as a public nuisance and disposed of as
provided in this Chapter and determine the administrative costs and the costs
of removal to be charged against the owner of the parcel of land on which the
vehicle or parts thereof is located. The order requiring removal shall include
a description of the vehicle or parts thereof and, if reasonably ascertainable,
the correct vehicle identification number and license number of the vehicle. If
an interested party makes a written presentation to the hearing officer but
does not appear, he shall be notified in writing of the decision.
   G.   Determining Costs: The hearing officer, after hearing all testimony,
may determine that the costs of removal and cost of administration be paid by
the owner of the land, the owner of the vehicle, or the Town.
   H.   Administrative Costs: The Town Manager shall from time to time
determine and fix an amount to be assessed as administrative costs (excluding
the actual cost of removal of any vehicle or parts thereof) under this Chapter.
(Ord. 75, 7-11-1996)
11.10.090: REMOVAL OF VEHICLE:
   A.   Contract: When the Town has contracted with or granted a franchise to
any person, such person shall be authorized, subject to applicable law, to
enter private property or public property to remove or cause the removal of a
vehicle or parts thereof declared to be a nuisance pursuant to this Chapter.
   B.   Disposal: Ten (10) days from the date of mailing of notice of the
decision by the hearing officer, the vehicle(s) or parts thereof may be
disposed of by the Town Manager, by removal to a scrap yard or automobile
dismantler's yard. After a vehicle has been removed, it shall not thereafter be
reconstructed or made operable. (Ord. 75, 7-11-1996)
11.10.100: NOTICE TO RESPONSIBLE AGENCIES:
Within five (5) days after the date of removal of the vehicle or parts thereof,
notice shall be given to the Department of Motor Vehicles, the California
Highway Patrol, and the Chief of Police of the Town, identifying the vehicle or
parts thereof removed. At the same time, there shall be transmitted to the
Department of Motor Vehicles any evidence of registration available, including
registration certificates, certificates of title and license plates. (Ord. 75,
7-11-1996)
11.10.110: ABATEMENT COSTS; LIEN:
If the administrative costs and the cost of removal, which are charged against
the owner of a parcel of land pursuant to Section
11.10.080 of this Chapter are not paid within thirty (30) days of the order, or
the final disposition of an appeal therefrom, the costs shall be assessed
against the parcel of land pursuant to California Government Code section
38773.5 and shall be transmitted to the tax collector for collection. The
assessment shall have the same priority as other property taxes. (Ord. 75, 7-
11-1996)
CHAPTER 11.20
GRAFFITI ABATEMENT
SECTION:
11.20.010: Purpose And Intent
11.20.020: Definitions
11.20.030: Graffiti Prohibited
11.20.040: Possession Of Graffiti Implements
11.20.050: Accessibility To Graffiti Implements Prohibited
11.20.060: Graffiti Removal Provisions
11.20.070: Rewards
11.20.080: Penalties And Civil Liability Of Parents
11.20.010: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The Town Council finds graffiti on public or private property a blighting
element which leads to depreciation of the value of property which has been
targeted by such vandalism and depreciates the value of the adjacent and
surrounding properties to the extent that graffiti creates a negative impact
upon the entire Town.
The Town Council finds and determines that graffiti is obnoxious and a public
nuisance, and must be eliminated by means of prevention, education and
abatement to avoid the detrimental impact of such graffiti on the Town and its
residents, and to prevent the further spread of graffiti.
The purpose and intent of the Town Council, through the adoption of this
Chapter, is to provide additional enforcement tools to protect public and
private property from acts of vandalism and defacement. It is the further
intent of the Town Council, through the adoption of this Chapter, to provide
notice to all those who disregard the property rights of others, that the law
enforcement agencies of the Town, the Police Department, code enforcement and
the Town Attorney, will strictly enforce the law and vigorously prosecute those
persons engaging in violations of this Chapter. (Ord, 314, 4-2-2024)
11.20.020: DEFINITIONS:
AEROSOL PAINT CONTAINER: Any aerosol container which is adapted or made for the
purpose of spraying paint or other substance capable of defacing property.
“ETCHING CREAM”: Any caustic cream, gel, liquid, or solution capable, by means
of a chemical action, of defacing, damaging, or destroying hard surfaces in a
manner similar to acid.
FELT-TIP MARKER: Any broad-tipped marker pen with a tip exceeding three-eighths
inch (3/8") in width or any similar implement containing an ink that is not
water soluble.
GRAFFITI: Any unauthorized inscribing, word, figure or design which is marked,
etched, scratched, drawn, painted, pasted or otherwise affixed to or on any
surface, regardless of the nature of the material of that structural component,
to the extent the same was not authorized in advance by the owner thereof, or,
despite advance authorization, is otherwise deemed by the Town Council to be a
public nuisance.
GRAFFITI IMPLEMENT: An aerosol paint container, a felt-tip marker, etching
cream, or any other device containing any solution or substance capable of
being used to leave a visible mark at least three-eighths inch (3/8") upon any
surface.
STRUCTURE(S): That which is built or constructed, and shall include buildings,
walls, fences, poles and signs located with the Town of Yucca Valley. (Ord,
314, 4-2-2024)
11.20.030: GRAFFITI PROHIBITED:
   A.   No person shall place graffiti or other writing upon any publicly- or
privately-owned tree or structures including, but not limited to, buildings,
walls, fences, poles and signs, located within the Town. It shall also be
unlawful for any person to apply or affix any adhesive backed label, sticker,
bumper sticker or similar item, to any tree or structure not owned or lawfully
possessed by such person.
   B.   No person owning or otherwise in control of any real property within
the Town shall permit or allow any graffiti to be placed upon or remain on any
structure located on such property. (Ord, 314, 4-2-2024)
11.20.040: POSSESSION OF GRAFFITI IMPLEMENTS:
   A.   By Minors: Possession of any graffiti implement by any person under the
age of eighteen (18) years with the intent to deface property while upon public
or private property shall be unlawful unless that minor has received the
consent of the owner of such private property whose consent to such possession
and presence is given in writing in advance or unless that minor is accompanied
by and under the supervision of a parent or legal guardian. This provision
shall not apply to the possession of felt-tip markers by minors attending, or
traveling to or from, a school at which the minor is enrolled, if the minor is
participating in a class at said school which formally requires possession of
such felt-tip markers. The burden of proof in any prosecution for violation of
this Section shall be upon the minor student to establish the need to possess a
felt-tip marker.
   B.   Possession In Designated Public Places:
      1.   Possession of any graffiti implement by any person under the age of
eighteen (18) years with the intent to deface property while in any posted
public facility, park, playground, swimming pool, recreational facility or area
shall be unlawful, except as may be authorized by the Town or unless that minor
is accompanied by and under the supervision and control of a parent or legal
guardian. “Posted” means a sign placed in a reasonable location or locations
stating it is a misdemeanor to possess etching cream or a spray can of paint in
that public facility, park, playground, swimming pool, beach, or recreational
area without valid authorization.
      2.   Possession of any graffiti implement by any person under the age of
eighteen (18) years while on any public highway, street, alley, or way, or
other public place, including, in or within ten feet (10') of an underpass,
bridge abutment, storm drain or other similar type of infrastructure not
normally used by the public shall be unlawful except as may be authorized by
the Town or unless that minor is accompanied by and under the supervision and
control of a parent or legal guardian. (Ord, 314, 4-2-2024)
11.20.050: ACCESSIBILITY TO GRAFFITI IMPLEMENTS PROHIBITED:
   A.   Furnishing Of Graffiti Implements To Minors Prohibited: It shall be
unlawful for any person to sell, exchange, give, loan or otherwise furnish, or
cause or permit to be exchanged, given, loaned or otherwise furnished, any
graffiti implement to any minor without the consent of the parent or lawful
guardian which consent shall be given in advance in writing.
      1.   This section shall not apply to the furnishing of six ounces or less
of etching cream or an aerosol container of paint to a minor for the minor’s
use or possession under the supervision of the minor’s parent, guardian,
instructor, or employer. Etching cream, aerosol containers of paint, or related
substances may be furnished for use in school-related activities that are part
of the instructional program when used under controlled and supervised
situations within the classroom or on the site of a supervised project. These
containers may not leave the supervised site and shall be inventoried by the
instructor. This use shall comply with Section 32060 of the Education Code
regarding the safe use of toxic art supplies in schools.
   B.   Display Requirements: No person or business engaged in a commercial
enterprise shall display for sale, trade or exchange, any graffiti implement
except in an area from which the public shall be securely precluded without
employee assistance. Two (2) such acceptable methods for displaying graffiti
implements for sale shall be by containment in: 1) a completely enclosed
cabinet or other storage device which shall be permanently affixed to a
building or structure, and which shall, at all times except during access by
authorized representatives, remain securely locked; or 2) in an enclosed area
behind a sales or service counter from which the public is precluded from
entry. Nothing herein shall relieve such person or business entity from, at all
times, complying with the requirements of California Penal Code section 594.1
(c) by posting signs as described therein.
   C.   Storage Requirements: No person or business engaged in the business of
selling, providing or trading graffiti implements shall store any graffiti
implement except in either: 1) a completely enclosed room which shall, at all
times except during access or actual occupancy by the owner or an authorized
adult representative of the owner, remain securely locked; or 2) in a
completely enclosed cabinet or other storage device which shall be permanently
affixed to a building or building structure, and which shall, at all times
except during access by the owner or an authorized adult representative of the
owner, remain securely locked. For purposes of this Section, an owner or
authorized representative of the owner, shall be deemed to actually occupy a
room even during brief periods of absence if the room is contained within a
larger structure which is occupied by the owner.
   D.   Civil Responsibility For Damages For Wrongful Display Or Storage: Any
person who displays or stores or permits the display or storage of any graffiti
implement in violation of the provisions of this Section shall be personally
liable for any and all costs, including attorney fees and court costs, incurred
by any party in connection with the removal of graffiti, the repair of any
property containing graffiti, or such party’s prosecution of a civil claim for
reimbursement or damages resulting from such graffiti removal or property
repair, arising from the use by any person of such wrongfully displayed or
stored graffiti implement in violation of the provisions of any of the
California Penal Code sections or in violation of this Chapter. (Ord, 314, 4-2-
2024)
11.20.060: GRAFFITI REMOVAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Right Of Town To Require Removal: It is unlawful for any person who is
the owner or who has primary responsibility for control, of property or who has
primary responsibility for the repair or maintenance of property (“responsible
party” hereinafter in this Section), to permit said property to be defaced with
graffiti and shall have the duty to remove the same immediately, and in no
event longer than 72 hours after notice by the Town to remove such graffiti.
Notice by the Town shall be by first class mail, unless: 1) said person shall
demonstrate by a preponderance of evidence that he does not have the financial
ability to remove the defacing graffiti; or 2) it can be demonstrated that the
responsible party has an active program for the removal of graffiti and has
scheduled the removal of the graffiti as part of that program, in which case it
shall be unlawful to permit such property to remain defaced with graffiti for a
period of seven (7) days after service by first class mail of notice of same.
   B.   Declaration Of Public Nuisance:
      1.   Graffiti As Nuisance: The Town Council hereby declares and finds
graffiti to be a public nuisance subject to abatement according to the
provisions and procedures herein contained and as authorized by California
Government Code section 38773 et seq.
      2.   Graffiti Attracting Surface A Nuisance: The existence of any surface
of a structure on any privately owned parcel of land which has been defaced
with graffiti after removal more than five (5) times in twelve (12) months is
hereby deemed to be a nuisance, and may be abated by the Town by order of the
Town Council requiring modifications thereto, or to the immediate area
surrounding same. Such modifications may include, but are not limited to,
retrofitting of such surfaces at the expense of the property owner(s) of said
lot, with such features or qualities as may be established by the Town as
necessary to reduce the attractiveness of the surface for graffiti, or as
necessary to permit more convenient, expedient or efficient removal of graffiti
therefrom.
   C.   Right Of Town To Remove:
      1.   Use Of Public Funds: Whenever the Town becomes aware, or is notified
and determines that graffiti is so located on publicly- or privately-owned
property viewable from a public or quasi-public place within the Town, the Town
shall be authorized to use public funds for the removal of same, or for the
painting or repairing of same, but shall not authorize or undertake to provide
for the painting or repair of any more extensive area than that where the
graffiti is located, unless the Town Manager, or designee, determines in
writing that a more extensive area is required to be repainted or repaired in
order to avoid aesthetic disfigurement to the neighborhood or community, or
unless the responsible party agrees to pay for the costs of repainting or
repairing the more extensive area.
      2.   Right Of Entry On Private Property:
         a.   Securing Owner Consent: Prior to entering upon private property
or property owned by a public entity other than the Town, for the purposes of
removal of graffiti, the Town shall attempt to secure the consent of the
responsible party, and a release of the Town from liability for private or
public property damage.
         b.   Failure To Obtain Owner Consent: If a responsible party fails to
remove the offending graffiti within the time herein specified, or if the Town
shall have requested consent to remove or paint over the offending graffiti and
the responsible party shall have refused consent for entry on terms acceptable
to the Town consistent with the terms of this Section, the Town may seek any
authority required to commence abatement and cost recovery proceedings for the
removal of the graffiti pursuant to the nuisance abatement authority granted by
California Government Code section 38773 et seq., which authority includes the
recovery of all costs incurred by the Town in abating graffiti and recordation
of lien as to affected property.
   D.   Ease Of Removal Provisions:
      1.   Common Utility Colors And Paint Type: Any gas, telephone, water,
sewer, cable, electrical and other utility operating in the Town shall paint
their freestanding, above-surface metal fixtures which are installed after the
effective date of this Chapter, with a uniform paint type and color as directed
by the Town Manager.
      2.   Conditions On Encroachment Permits: Encroachment permits issued by
the Town may, among other items, be conditioned on: a) the permittee applying
an anti-graffiti material to the encroaching object or structure of a type and
nature which is acceptable to the Town Manager, or his designee; b) the
immediate removal by the permittee of any graffiti; c) the right of the Town to
remove graffiti or to paint the encroaching object or structure; d) the
permittee providing the Town with sufficient matching paint and/or anti-
graffiti material on demand for use in the painting of the encroaching object
or structure containing graffiti.
      3.   Conditions On Discretionary Approvals: In imposing conditions upon
conditional use permits, variances, building permits or other similar land use
entitlements or development or design applications, the Town may impose
graffiti removal requirements or any or all of the following conditions, or
other similar or related conditions:
         a.   Use Of Anti-Graffiti Material: Applicant may be required to apply
an anti-graffiti material or provide a landscape design of a type and nature
which is acceptable to the Town Manager, or his designee, to such of the
publicly viewable surfaces to be constructed on the site deemed by the Town
Manager, or designee, to be likely to attract graffiti (“graffiti attracting
surfaces” hereinafter in this Section);
         b.   Right Of Access To Remove Graffiti: Applicant shall grant, in
writing, the right of entry over and access to such parcels, upon forty eight
(48) hours posted notice, by authorized Town employees or agents, for the
purpose of removing or painting over graffiti on graffiti attracting surfaces
previously designated by the Town Manager, or designee. Such grant shall be
made an express condition of approval and shall be deemed to run with the land;
         c.   Supply Town With Graffiti-Removal Material: Applicant, and any
and all successors in interest, shall, for a specified period of years after
approval, provide the Town with sufficient matching paint and/or anti-graffiti
material on demand for use in the painting over or removal of designated
graffiti attracting surfaces;
         d.   Owner To Immediately Remove Graffiti: Persons applying for
subdivision maps shall, as part of any conditions, covenants and restrictions,
covenant, which covenant shall run with the land, in a form satisfactory to the
Town, that the owners of the lots shall immediately remove any graffiti placed
on publicly viewable trees and structures thereon to the Town’s satisfaction.
(Ord, 314, 4-2-2024)
11.20.070: REWARDS:
   A.   Reward Authority:
      1.   Pursuant to California Government Code section 53069.5, the Town
does hereby offer a reward in an amount as may be set by resolution of the Town
Council, for information leading to the arrest and conviction of any person for
violation, within the Town, of California Penal Code section 594 or 594.3 by
the use of graffiti, California Penal Code sections 640, 640.5, 640.6, or
Section 11.82.030, 11.82.040, or 11.82.050 of this Chapter. In the event of
multiple contributions of information, the reward amount shall be divided by
the Town in the manner it shall deem appropriate. For the purposes of this
Section, diversion of the violator to a community service program, or a plea
bargain to a lesser offense, shall constitute a conviction.
      2.   Claims for rewards under this Section shall be filed with the Town.
Each claim shall:
         a.   Specifically identify the date, location and kind of property
damaged or destroyed;
         b.   Identify by name the person who was convicted;
         c.   Identify the court and the date upon which the conviction
occurred.
      3.   No claim for a reward shall be allowed by the Town Council unless
the Town investigates and verifies the accuracy of the claim and determines the
requirements of this Section have been satisfied.
      4.   The person committing the graffiti vandalism, and if an
unemancipated minor, then the parent or lawful guardian of said minor, shall be
civilly liable for any reward paid pursuant to this Section pursuant to the
provisions of California Government Code section 53069.5. (Ord, 314, 4-2-2024)
11.20.080: PENALTIES AND CIVIL LIABILITY OF PARENTS:
   A.   Criminal Penalties: Any violation of this Chapter shall be a
misdemeanor punishable as provided in Section 1.02 of this Code, and by the
performance of community service in the form of graffiti cleanup to the maximum
extent permitted by California Penal Code section 594 and/or any other
provision of law. (Ord. 58, 7-20-1995; amd. 2000 Code)
   B.   Additional Penalties Available: Whenever appropriate, the Town intends
to petition a sentencing court to impose the following additional penalties
upon conviction:
      1.   Litter or graffiti cleanup pursuant to California Vehicle Code
section 42001.7, upon conviction of violation of California Vehicle Code
section 23111, 23112, or 23113(a).
      2.   Suspension or delay of issuance of a driver’s license pursuant to
California Vehicle Code section 13202.6 upon a graffiti vandalism conviction.
      3.   Performance of community service, including graffiti removal service
by any minor determined to be a ward of the court as a result of committing a
vandalism-related offense in the Town, as provided in California Welfare and
Institutions Code section 729.6.
      4.   Performance of community service, including graffiti removal service
of up to one hundred (100) hours by any minor determined to be a ward of the
court as a result of committing a drug related offense in the Town, as provided
in California Welfare and Institutions Code section 729.8.
   C.   It is the Town’s further intent that, pursuant to California Penal Code
section 640.6(a), all acts of graffiti vandalism occurring within the Town
shall be prosecuted as misdemeanors pursuant to California Penal Code section
594 et seq., or this Chapter.
   D.   Pursuant to California Civil Code section 1714.1, any parent or legal
guardian whose minor child possesses a graffiti implement shall be personally
liable for any and all costs to any person or business incurred in connection
with the removal of graffiti caused by said minor child, or by said graffiti
implement, and for all law enforcement costs, Town staff costs, attorney fees
and court costs incurred in connection with the civil prosecution of any claims
for damages or reimbursement up to the sum of twenty five thousand dollars
($25,000.00)
   E.   Pursuant to California Government Code section 38773.6, the Town may
abate any nuisance resulting from the defacement by a minor of property of
another by graffiti or other inscribed materials in accordance with Section
11.20.060  of this Chapter. All costs of abatement and administrative costs
including law enforcement costs, Town staff costs, and attorney fees shall be a
special assessment against any parcel of land owned by any minor or by the
parent or guardian having custody and control of the minor. The costs of
assessment after confirmation by resolution of the Town Council, after
recording shall constitute a lien on said property in the amount of said
assessment and shall be collected at the same time and in the same manner as
regular bills of taxes levied against said property is collected and be
subjected to the same penalties and procedure and sale in case of delinquency.
All laws applicable to the levy, collection and enforcement of real property
taxes shall be applicable to the special assessment. (Ord, 314, 4-2-2024)
CHAPTER 11.30
DAYTIME LOITERING
SECTION:
11.30.010: Purpose And Intent
11.30.020: Definitions
11.30.030: Daytime Loitering By Juveniles Prohibited
11.30.040: Daytime Loitering Exceptions
11.30.050: Infractions And Penalties
11.30.060: Duty Of Parents And Guardians
11.30.070: Aiding And Abetting
11.30.080: Cost Recovery
11.30.010: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The Town Council finds juvenile daytime loitering a detriment both to the
community and to juveniles loitering during school hours.
The purpose and intent of the Town Council, through the adoption of this
Chapter, are to provide additional enforcement tools to compel juveniles to
take advantage of educational opportunities, to reduce the incidence of daytime
burglary, to reduce losses to daytime juvenile crime, and in reducing juvenile
truancy, to keep juveniles out of the juvenile justice system.
It is the further intent of the Town Council, through the adoption of this
Chapter, to provide notice to all those who disregard the requirement of
compulsory education that the law enforcement agencies of the Town, the Police
Department and San Bernardino County courts will strictly enforce the law and
vigorously prosecute those persons engaging in violations of this Chapter.
(Ord. 92, 4-16-1998)
11.30.020: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meaning given herein:
EMERGENCY: An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state
that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited to, a
fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident or any situation requiring
immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
GUARDIAN: A. A person who, under court order, is the guardian of a minor; or
   B.   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by a
court.
MINOR: Any person under eighteen (18) years of age and is synonymous with the
term "juvenile" for the purpose of this Chapter.
PARENT: A person who is:
   A.   A natural parent, adoptive parent or stepparent of another person; or
   B.   At least eighteen (18) years of age and authorized by a parent or
guardian to have the care and custody of a minor.
PUBLIC PLACE: Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, sidewalks,
alleys, highways and the common areas of hospitals, apartments, office
buildings, commercial buildings, transportation facilities, parks, public
playgrounds and vacant lots. (Ord. 92, 4-16-1998)
11.30.030: DAYTIME LOITERING BY JUVENILES PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any minor under the age of eighteen (18) years, who is
subject to compulsory education or to compulsory continuing education, to be
present in or upon the public streets, highways, roads, alleys, parks,
playgrounds or other public grounds, public places, public buildings,
commercial buildings, places of amusement and eating places or vacant lots
between the hours of seven fifteen o'clock (7:15) A.M. and one forty five
o'clock (1:45) P.M. on days when school is in session. (Ord. 92, 4-16-1998)
11.30.040: DAYTIME LOITERING EXCEPTIONS:
This Chapter does not apply:
   A.   When the minor is accompanied by his parents, guardian or other adult
person having the care or custody of the minor; or
   B.   When the minor is on an emergency errand directed by his parents or
guardian or other adult person having care or custody of the minor; or
   C.   When the minor is going or coming directly from or to his place of
gainful employment or to or from a medical appointment; or
   D.   To students who have permission to leave school campus for a school-
related activity and have in their possession a valid, school-issued, off-
campus permit; or
   E.   To students who do not have a regularly scheduled class or who are
permitted to leave campus for lunch; or
   F.   To students who have a school commitment other than seven fifteen
o'clock (7:15) A.M. to one forty five o'clock (1:45) P.M. and who have in their
possession a valid, school identification indicating school hours.
Before taking any enforcement action under this Section, the peace officer
shall ask the apparent offender's age and reason for being in or on the
premises of the public place between the hours of seven fifteen o'clock (7:15)
A.M. to one forty five o'clock (1:45) P.M. on days when school is in session.
The officer shall not issue a citation or make an arrest under this Section
unless the officer reasonably believes that an offense has occurred and that,
based on any responses and other circumstances, no defense under this Section
is present or applicable. (Ord. 92, 4-16-1998)
11.30.050: INFRACTIONS AND PENALTIES:
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Code, when a person under the age
of eighteen (18) years is charged with a violation of this Chapter, and a peace
officer issues a notice to appear in juvenile traffic court to that minor, the
charge shall be deemed an infraction and punishable by a fine set in accordance
with juvenile traffic offenses. (Ord. 92, 4-16-1998)
11.30.060: DUTY OF PARENTS AND GUARDIANS:
Every parent, guardian or other person having the legal care, custody or
control of any person under the age of eighteen (18) years who knowingly aids,
abets or encourages such person to violate any provision of this Chapter shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 92, 4-16-1998)
11.30.070: AIDING AND ABETTING:
Any person assisting, aiding, abetting or encouraging any minor under the age
of eighteen (18) years to violate any provision of this Chapter shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 92, 4-16-1998)
11.30.080: COST RECOVERY:
   A.   Determination By Court: When, based on a finding of civil liability or
conviction for violations of this Chapter, a minor under eighteen (18) years of
age is detained for a period of time in excess of one hour, and said detention
required the supervision of the juvenile offender by San Bernardino County
Sheriff's Department employee(s), the parent(s) or legal guardian(s) having
custody or control of said minor shall be jointly and severally liable for the
cost of providing such personnel over and above the services normally provided
by said Department.
   B.   Determination By Sheriff's Captain: As determined by the Sheriff's
captain or his designee, the parent(s) or legal guardian(s) of a minor
committing any public offense amounting to an act of the detention, processing
or supervision of minors that are over and above the normal services usually
provided by the San Bernardino County Sheriffs Department, may be assessed and
billed for the cost of providing such personnel for such services beyond those
normally provided by said Department.
   C.   Appeal: Any person receiving a bill for police services pursuant to
this Chapter may, within fifteen (15) days after the billing date, file a
written request appealing the imposition of said charges. Any billing sent
pursuant to this Section shall inform the billed party of the right to appeal
said billing. Any appeal regarding such billing shall be heard by the Town
Manager, or his designee, as the hearing officer. Within ten (10) days after
the hearing, the hearing officer shall give written notice of the decision to
the appellant. Upon the filing of a request for an appeal, payment of the bill
for the police services shall be suspended until notice of the decision of the
hearing officer. If the appeal is denied in part or in full, all amounts due to
the Town shall be paid within thirty (30) days after notice of the decision of
the hearing officer. (Ord. 92, 4-16-1998)
CHAPTER 11.40
CURFEW REGULATIONS
SECTION:
11.40.010: Purpose And Intent
11.40.020: Definitions
11.40.030: Curfew Established
11.40.040: Curfew Exceptions
11.40.050: Penalties
11.40.060: Duty Of Parents And Guardians
11.40.070: Aiding And Abetting
11.40.080: Cost Recovery
11.40.010: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The town council finds and determines that the following legitimate and
compelling governmental interests justify establishment of a curfew for minors:
   A.   Protection of children from each other and from other persons on the
street during late night and early morning hours.
   B.   Protection of the public from nocturnal, juvenile and gang related
crime.
   C.   Encouragement of parental control of and responsibility for their
children.
   D.   Reduction of number of juveniles entering the juvenile justice system.
It is the intent of the town council, through the adoption of this chapter, to
provide additional enforcement tools to protect the public and juveniles who
often are perpetrators and victims of crime during the late night and early
morning hours.
It is the further intent of the town council, through the adoption of this
chapter, to provide notice to all those who disregard the existing curfew
ordinance, that the law enforcement agencies of the town, the police department
and San Bernardino County courts, will strictly enforce the law and vigorously
prosecute those persons engaging in violations of this chapter.
It is the further intent of the town council to allow any minor under the age
of eighteen (18) to move about freely while participating in legitimate
activities, and to pursue legitimate activities during the hours specified in
section
11.40.030 of this chapter with the permission of his parent, guardian or other
adult person having the lawful care and custody of the minor. (Ord. 92, 4-16-
1998)
11.40.020: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meaning given herein:
EMERGENCY: An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state
that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited to, a
fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident or any situation requiring
immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
GUARDIAN: A. A person who, under court order, is the guardian of a minor; or
   B.   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by a
court.
MINOR: Any person under eighteen (18) years of age and is synonymous with the
term "juvenile" for the purpose of this chapter.
PARENT: A person who is:
   A.   A natural parent, adoptive parent or stepparent of another person; or
   B.   At least eighteen (18) years of age and authorized by a parent or
guardian to have the care and custody of a minor.
PUBLIC PLACE: Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, sidewalks,
alleys, highways and transportation facilities, parks, playgrounds and vacant
lots. (Ord. 92, 4-16-1998)
11.40.030: CURFEW ESTABLISHED:
It is unlawful for any minor under the age of eighteen (18) years to be present
in or upon the public streets, highways, roads, alleys, parks, playgrounds, or
other public grounds, public places, public buildings, commercial buildings,
places of amusement and eating places or vacant lots, whether inside or outside
a motor vehicle, between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and the time of
sunrise the following day. (Ord. 203, 8-18-2009)
11.40.040: CURFEW EXCEPTIONS:
This chapter does not apply:
   A.   When the minor is accompanied by his parents, guardian, or other adult
person having the care or custody of the minor; or
   B.   When the minor is on an emergency errand or lawful business directed by
his parents or guardian or other adult person having care or custody of the
minor, without any detour or stop; or
   C.   When the minor is engaged in an employment activity, or going to or
returning home from an employment activity, without any detour or stop; or
   D.   When the minor is attending an official school, religious,
recreational, educational, social or other organized activity sponsored by the
town, school district or other private, civic or religious organization that
supervises the activity, or when a minor is going to or returning home from,
without any detour or stop, such activity; or
   E.   When the minor is involved in an emergency; or
   F.   When the minor is in a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel or
other travel through the town not in violation of this chapter; or
   G.   When the minor is going to or returning home from a private residence,
without any detour or stop, at which the minor was invited; or
   H.   When the minor is engaging in speech or religious rights protected by
the United States or California constitutions, such as the free exercise of
religion, freedom of speech and the right of peaceful assembly; or
   I.   When the minor is married or has been emancipated in accordance with
California Family Code section 7000 et seq.; or
   J.   When the minor is engaged in a lawful commercial activity or receiving
lawful commercial services on the premises of a business organization that
supervises and permits the activity, or when a minor is going to or returning
home from, without any detour or stop, from such activity or service. (Ord.
203, 8-18-2009)
11.40.050: PENALTIES:
Any person who violates section
11.40.030 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 203, 8-18-
2009)
11.40.060: DUTY OF PARENTS AND GUARDIANS:
Every parent, guardian or other person having the legal care, custody or
control of any person under the age of eighteen (18) years who knowingly aids,
abets or encourages such person to violate any provision of this chapter shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 92, 4-16-1998)
11.40.070: AIDING AND ABETTING:
Any person assisting, aiding, abetting or encouraging any minor under the age
of eighteen (18) years to violate any provision of this chapter shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 92, 4-16-1998)
11.40.080: COST RECOVERY:
   A.   Determination By Court: When, based on a finding of civil liability or
conviction for violations of this chapter, a minor under eighteen (18) years of
age is detained for a period of time in excess of one hour, and said detention
required the supervision of the juvenile offender by San Bernardino County
sheriff's department employee(s), the parent(s) or legal guardian(s) having
custody or control of said minor shall be jointly and severally liable for the
cost of providing such personnel over and above the services normally provided
by said department.
   B.   Determination By Sheriff's Captain: As determined by the sheriff's
captain or his designee, the parent(s) or legal guardian(s) of a minor
committing any public offense amounting to an act of wilful misconduct in
violation of this chapter where sheriff personnel provide services relating to
the detention, processing or supervision of minors that are over and above the
normal services usually provided by the San Bernardino County sheriff's
department, may be assessed and billed for the cost of providing such personnel
for such services beyond those normally provided by said department.
   C.   Appeal: Any person receiving a bill for police services pursuant to
this chapter may, within fifteen (15) days after the billing date, file a
written request appealing the imposition of said charges. Any billing sent
pursuant to this section shall inform the billed party of the right to appeal
said billing. Any appeal regarding such billing shall be heard by the town
manager, or his designee, as the hearing officer. Within ten (10) days after
the hearing, the hearing officer shall give written notice of the decision to
the appellant. Upon the filing of a request for an appeal, payment of the bill
for the police services shall be suspended until notice of the decision of the
hearing officer. If the appeal is denied in part or in full, all amounts due to
the town shall be paid within thirty (30) days after notice of the decision of
the hearing officer. (Ord. 92, 4-16-1998)
CHAPTER 11.50
COASTING DEVICES
SECTION:
11.50.010: Application Of Chapter
11.50.020: Definitions
11.50.030: Use And Operation
11.50.040: Exceptions
11.50.050: Penalties
11.50.060: Seizure Of Evidence
11.50.010: APPLICATION OF CHAPTER:
This Chapter shall apply to the use of coasting devices on all streets, alleys,
sidewalks, parks and rights of way in the Town, whether public or private, and
all other property owned by the Town, and upon private property. (Ord. 63, 2-
15-1996)
11.50.020: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meaning given herein.
COASTING DEVICES: Includes any skateboard, roller skates, inline skates,
scooter, coaster, bicycle or other rolling or wheeled device propelled by
human, motor or wind power.
SHOPPING CENTER: A group of commercial establishments, planned, developed,
owned and or managed as a common unit with parking provided on the private
property site. (Ord. 63, 2-15-1996)
11.50.030: USE AND OPERATION:
It is unlawful for any person to:
   A.   Use or operate a coasting device on any public park, playground or
recreation area or public property of the Town or upon the Town Civic Center
Complex when the Town has posted signs prohibiting the use of said coasting
device.
   B.   Operate or use any coasting device upon any private parking lot or
shopping center when signs prohibiting such activity are displayed.
   C.   Operate or use any coasting device upon a public street or alley if
such operation or use interferes with the movement of vehicles thereon.
   D.   While operating any coasting device on a public sidewalk, to fail to
yield the right of way to all pedestrians within or approaching the area or to
use said device in a manner which endangers the safety of any other person or
property.
   E.   Operate or use any coasting devices on or in the Town skate facility
unless that person is at all times wearing properly fitted and fastened
protective devices consisting of a helmet, knee pads, wrist guards and elbow
pads. (Ord. 63, 2-15-1996)
11.50.040: EXCEPTIONS:
This Chapter shall not apply in any of the following instances:
   A.   Where its application results in or is coupled with any act prohibited
by the Unruh Civil Rights Act which forbids a business establishment generally
open to the public from unreasonably and arbitrarily excluding any prospective
customer and from practicing any racial or other prohibited discrimination;
   B.   To wheeled conveyances used principally as medically-assisted devices
or for the aid or assistance of physically limited or disabled persons. (Ord.
63, 2-15-1996)
11.50.050: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this Chapter is guilty of
an infraction punishable in accordance with the provision of Section
1.02.030 of this Code.
   B.   The parent or legal guardian having control or custody of an
unemancipated minor whose conduct violates this Chapter shall be jointly and
severally liable with the minor for any fines imposed pursuant to this Chapter.
(Ord. 63, 2-15-1996)
11.50.060: SEIZURE OF EVIDENCE:
Any device used in the violation of any provision of this Chapter shall be
seized by the enforcing officers and removed, stored and reclaimed in
accordance with law. (Ord. 63, 2-15-1996)
YU562   11-60
CHAPTER 11.60
DUMPING WASTE; NUISANCE VEHICLES
SECTION:
11.60.010: Definitions
11.60.020: Dumping Waste Unlawful
11.60.030: Nuisance Vehicles
11.60.040: Declaration Of A Nuisance
11.60.050: Authority To Seize And Impound
11.60.060: Exceptions To Seize And Impound
11.60.070: Notification
11.60.080: Administrative Postseizure Hearing
11.60.090: Administrative Charges
11.60.100: Nuisance A Violation
11.60.110: Regulations Not Exclusive
11.60.010: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter the following terms, phrases, words, and their
derivations shall have the meanings given herein. When not inconsistent with
the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words used in
the plural number include the singular number, and words used in the singular
number include the plural number. The word "shall" is always mandatory and not
merely directory.
COMMERCIAL OR HOUSEHOLD QUANTITIES: Waste material generated in the course of a
trade, business, profession, occupation, house life, maintaining of a household
or dwelling, and/or an amount of waste equal to or in excess of one cubic yard.
DUMPING: The wilful or negligent throwing, dropping, placing, or depositing of
any waste matter in excess of what is generally carried on a person. Dumping of
waste prohibited under this chapter is described as dumping of a commercial or
household quantity of waste including amounts that can be carried in the bed of
a truck or trunk of an automobile, and can include, but not limited to, waste
items such as appliances, or construction material, and can include large bags,
sacks, or other containers containing waste material.
HAZARDOUS WASTE: Any waste as defined in California Health and Safety Code
section 25117.
LITTER OR LITTERING: The wilful or negligent throwing, dropping, placing,
depositing, discarding or setting of small quantities (as opposed to commercial
or household quantities) of waste material on private or public property.
LOCAL ENFORCEMENT ENTITIES: Any city, county, or city and county in this state.
VEHICLE: A vehicle as defined by section 670 of the California Vehicle Code.
WASTE: Matter discarded, used, or leftover substances including, but not
limited to, any garbage, trash, refuse, paper, container, packaging, or
construction material, carcass of dead animal, or offensive material of any
kind, or object likely to injure any person or create a traffic hazard. (Ord.
151, 3-18-2004)
11.60.020: DUMPING WASTE UNLAWFUL:
It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to dump or cause the dumping
of commercial or household quantities of waste on or upon any public property,
except public property specifically designated to receive such waste, or on or
upon any private property. As used hereafter in this chapter, "dumping of
commercial quantities of waste" shall be defined to include "dumping waste" or
"dump waste". (Ord. 151, 3-18-2004)
11.60.030: NUISANCE VEHICLES:
Any vehicle used to illegally dump waste in violation of section
11.60.020 of this chapter is declared a nuisance and the vehicle shall be
seized and impounded for thirty (30) days as provided in this chapter. (Ord.
151, 3-18-2004)
11.60.040: DECLARATION OF A NUISANCE:
Upon proof that a vehicle was used in violation of any provision of this
chapter or in violation of the prohibitions set forth in section
11.60.020 of this chapter, the town manager or designee shall declare the
vehicle a nuisance. (Ord. 151, 3-18-2004)
11.60.050: AUTHORITY TO SEIZE AND IMPOUND:
Upon discovery of the existence of a vehicle used to illegally dump waste in
violation of section
11.60.020 of this chapter within the town, the town manager, or designee, shall
have the authority to cause the immediate seizure, towing and impounding of the
vehicle for thirty (30) days in accordance with the procedure described in this
chapter. Any costs of seizure, impounding and any other related costs shall be
obligations of the registered and legal owner of the vehicle and shall
constitute a lien on the vehicle. This chapter does not authorize the seizing,
towing and impounding of vehicles in the event of littering. (Ord. 151, 3-18-
2004)
11.60.060: EXCEPTIONS TO SEIZE AND IMPOUND:
Any vehicle seized and impounded under this chapter shall be released to the
registered owner or his or her agent prior to the end of the thirty (30) day
impound period under any of the following circumstances:
   A.   When the vehicle is a stolen vehicle.
   B.   When the vehicle was seized under this chapter and the hearing officer
determines the vehicle was seized for an offense not authorized by this
chapter. (Ord. 151, 3-18-2004)
11.60.070: NOTIFICATION:
   A.   Duplicate receipts for vehicles seized and impounded pursuant to this
chapter shall be delivered to any person out of whose possession such vehicle
was seized, in accordance with section 1412 of the Penal Code.
   B.   A notice of seizure and impounding of the vehicle which shall state
that: 1) all charges of impounding and storage are obligations of the
registered and legal owners of the vehicle, and 2) shall constitute a lien on
the vehicle, and 3) provide an opportunity to the registered and legal owners
of the vehicle to request a postseizure hearing shall be given to the
registered and legal owner of the vehicle, as provided in this chapter and
Vehicle Code section 22852.
   C.   The Yucca Valley police department, within two (2) working days of
impoundment, shall send the notice described in the preceding paragraph by
certified mail, return receipt requested, to the registered and legal owner of
the seized and impounded vehicle, at the address obtained from the department
of motor vehicles.
   D.   The registered and legal owner of a vehicle that has been seized and
impounded under this chapter shall be provided with the opportunity for a
postseizure hearing to determine the validity and to consider any mitigating
circumstances attendant to the seizure and impound. (Ord. 151, 3-18-2004)
11.60.080: ADMINISTRATIVE POSTSEIZURE HEARING:
If the registered and/or legal owner of a vehicle that has been seized and
impounded under this chapter requests a postseizure hearing, the town manager
shall appoint a hearing officer who shall conduct such postseizure hearing. The
hearing shall be held as soon as practicable after the request for hearing is
made. The hearing officer will ascertain whether the alleged violation
constitutes a public nuisance as set forth in this chapter, whether cause
existed for the seizure, impounding and storage and other factors as are
relevant to the postseizure hearing. The hearing officer conducting the
postseizure hearing shall consider all relevant evidence, objections or
protests relative to the seizure and impounding of the vehicle. (Ord. 151, 3-
18-2004)
11.60.090: ADMINISTRATIVE CHARGES:
In addition to imposed towing and storage charges, there shall be imposed on
the registered and legal owner of any vehicle impounded and stored under this
chapter an administrative charge in the amount set by resolution adopted by the
town council to establish the administrative costs relating to the seizure,
removal, impound, storage and release of vehicle used in violation of this
chapter. All administrative charges imposed by the town shall be paid to the
town prior to the time the town authorizes the release of the vehicle by the
impounding entity or authority.
In the event said administrative charges are not paid as provided in this
chapter, the town may exercise its lien rights and cause the vehicle to be sold
to recover its costs and expenses in accordance with the procedures set out in
the California Vehicle Code applicable thereto. In the event the towing,
impound and storage charges are not paid to the impounding entity or authority
said entity or authority may exercise such lien rights as are authorized by the
California Vehicle and Civil Codes. In the event the vehicle is sold at a lien
sale and the proceeds are insufficient to pay the administrative charge of the
town and the towing and storage charges of the impounding entity or authority,
the town charges shall first be paid and then any remaining balance shall be
paid to the impounding entity or authority.
Said administrative charges may be waived by the town upon verifiable proof
that the vehicle was reported stolen at the time the vehicle was seized and
towed for impound under this chapter, was stolen at the time the vehicle was
towed, or the vehicle was towed from outside the town of Yucca Valley.
Administrative charges shall only be imposed on a vehicle used to illegally
dump waste in violation of section
11.60.020 of this chapter. (Ord. 151, 3-18-2004)
11.60.100: NUISANCE A VIOLATION:
Any person or his or her servant, agent, or employee who owns, leases,
possesses, or maintains any vehicle used for unlawful dumping of waste in
violation of section
11.60.020 of this chapter is guilty of a violation of this chapter. (Ord. 151,
3-18-2004)
11.60.110: REGULATIONS NOT EXCLUSIVE:
This chapter is not the exclusive regulation of vehicles used to illegally dump
wastes. It shall supplement and be in addition to regulations of other
regulatory codes, statutes, and ordinances enacted by the state, or any city,
town, county, or other local enforcement entities having jurisdiction. (Ord.
151, 3-18-2004)
CHAPTER 11.70
LITTER AND LITTERING
SECTION:
11.70.010: Short Title
11.70.020: Definitions
11.70.030: Litter In Public Places
11.70.040: Dumping, Placing, Burning, And Burial Restrictions
11.70.050: Placement Of Litter In Receptacles
11.70.060: Sweeping Litter Into Gutters
11.70.070: Merchants' Duty To Keep Sidewalks Free Of Litter
11.70.080: Litter Thrown By Persons In Vehicles
11.70.090: Truck Loads Causing Litter
11.70.100: Litter In Parks
11.70.110: Throwing Or Distributing Handbills In Public Places
11.70.120: Placing Handbills On Vehicles
11.70.130: Placement Of Handbills On Uninhabited Or Vacant Premises
11.70.140: Distribution Of Handbills To Private Premises
11.70.150: Posting Notices
11.70.160: Temporary Notices Of Sale
11.70.170: Litter On Occupied Private Property
11.70.180: Owner To Maintain Premises Free Of Litter
11.70.190: Litter On Vacant Lots
11.70.200: Declaration Of Nuisance
11.70.210: Notification Of Nuisance
11.70.220: Abatement By The Town
11.70.230: Report; Hearing On Assessment
11.70.240: Assessment Of Costs And Lien Against Property
11.70.250: Alternatives
11.70.260: Emergency Abatement
11.70.270: Violations
11.70.010: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the YUCCA VALLEY ANTILITTER
ORDINANCE. (Ord. 150, 3-18-2004)
11.70.020: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter the following terms, phrases, words, and their
derivations shall have the meanings given herein. When not inconsistent with
the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words used in
the plural number include the singular number, and words used in the singular
number include the plural number. The word "shall" is always mandatory and not
merely directory.
AUTHORIZED PRIVATE RECEPTACLE: A litter storage and collection receptacle as
required and authorized in the ordinance regulating the disposal of garbage and
waste matter in the town; "town" means the town of Yucca Valley.
COMMERCIAL HANDBILL: Any printed or written matter, any sample or device,
dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, door hanger, paper, booklet, or any other
printed or otherwise reproduced original or copies of any matter of literature:
   A.   Which advertises for sale any merchandise, product, commodity, or
thing; or
   B.   Which directs attention to any business or mercantile or commercial
establishment, or other activity, for the purpose of either directly or
indirectly promoting the interest thereof by sales; or
   C.   Which directs attention to or advertises any meeting, theatrical
performance, exhibition, or event of any kind, for which an admission fee is
charged for the purpose of private gain or profit; the terms of this clause
shall not apply where an admission fee is charged or a collection is taken up
for the purpose of defraying the expenses incident to such meeting, theatrical
performance, exhibition, or event of any kind, when either of the same is held,
given or takes place in connection with the dissemination of information which
is not restricted under the ordinary rules of decency, good morals, public
peace, safety and good order; provided, that nothing contained in this clause
shall be deemed to authorize the holding, giving or taking place of any
meeting, theatrical performance, exhibition, or event of any kind, without a
license, where such license is or may be required by any law of this state, or
under any ordinance of this town; or
   D.   Which, while containing reading matter other than advertising matter,
is predominantly and essentially an advertisement, and is distributed or
circulated for advertising purposes, or for the private benefit and gain of any
person so engaged as advertiser or distributor.
GARBAGE: Putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
LITTER: "Garbage", "refuse", and "rubbish" as defined herein and all other
waste material which, if thrown or deposited as herein prohibited, tends to
create a danger to public health, safety and welfare.
NEWSPAPER: Any newspaper of general circulation as defined by general law, any
newspaper duly entered with the post office department of the United States, in
accordance with federal statute or regulation, and any newspaper filed and
recorded with any recording officer as provided by general law; and, in
addition thereto, means and includes any periodical or current magazine
regularly published with not less than four (4) issues per year, and sold to
the public.
NONCOMMERCIAL HANDBILL: Any printed or written matter, any sample, or device,
dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, newspaper, magazine, paper, booklet, or
any other printed or otherwise reproduced original or copies of any matter of
literature not included in a "commercial handbill" or "newspaper" as defined
herein.
PARK: A park, reservation, playground, open space, recreation center or any
other public area in the town, owned or used by the town and devoted to active
or passive recreation.
PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, limited
liability company, company or organization of any kind.
PRIVATE PREMISES: Any dwelling, house, building, or other structure, designed
or used either wholly or in part for private residential purposes, whether
inhabited or temporarily or continuously uninhabited or vacant, and shall
include any yard, grounds, walk, driveway, porch, steps, vestibule or mailbox
belonging or appurtenant to such dwelling, house, building, or other structure.
PUBLIC PLACE: Any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys or other
public ways and any and all public parks, squares, spaces, grounds, malls and
buildings.
REFUSE: All putrescible and nonputrescible solid wastes (except body wastes),
including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals, abandoned
automobiles, and solid market and industrial wastes.
RUBBISH: Nonputrescible solid wastes consisting of both combustible and
noncombustible wastes, such as paper, wrappings, cigarettes, cardboard, tin
cans, yard clippings, leaves, wood, glass, bedding, crockery and similar
materials.
VEHICLE: Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway, including devices used exclusively upon
stationary rails or tracks. (Ord. 150, 3-18-2004)
11.70.030: LITTER IN PUBLIC PLACES:
No person shall throw or deposit litter in or upon any street, sidewalk, mall
or other public place within the town except in public receptacles and in
authorized private receptacles for collection. (Ord. 150, 3-18-2004)
11.70.040: DUMPING, PLACING, BURNING, AND BURIAL RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   No person shall throw, drop, leave, dump, bury, burn, place, keep,
accumulate or otherwise dispose of any solid waste upon any lot, land, street,
alley, water or waterway, or in any solid waste or recycling container, not
owned, rented, leased, or otherwise controlled, or not intended for use by said
person, either with or without intent to later remove same.
   B.   Solid waste may not be buried on any lot in the town. This section
shall not be interpreted to prohibit composting of yard waste. (Ord. 150, 3-18-
2004)
11.70.050: PLACEMENT OF LITTER IN RECEPTACLES:
Persons placing litter in public receptacles or in authorized private
receptacles shall do so in such a manner as to prevent it from being carried or
deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk or other public place or
upon private property. (Ord. 150, 3-18-2004)
11.70.060: SWEEPING LITTER INTO GUTTERS:
No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street, mall or other
public place within the town the accumulation of litter from any building or
lot or from any public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or
occupying property shall keep the sidewalk in front of their premises free of
litter. (Ord. 150, 3-18-2004)
11.70.070: MERCHANTS' DUTY TO KEEP SIDEWALKS FREE OF LITTER:
No person owning or occupying a place of business shall sweep into or deposit
in any gutter, street, mall or other public place within the town the
accumulation of litter from any building or lot or from any public or private
sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying places of business within the
town shall keep the sidewalk in front of their business premises free of
litter. (Ord. 150, 3-18-2004)
11.70.080: LITTER THROWN BY PERSONS IN VEHICLES:
No person, while a driver or passenger in a vehicle, shall throw or deposit, or
cause to be thrown or deposited, litter upon any street or other public place,
or upon private property within the town. (Ord. 150, 3-18-2004)
11.70.090: TRUCK LOADS CAUSING LITTER:
No person shall drive or move any truck or other vehicle within the town unless
such vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any load, contents or
litter from being blown or deposited upon any street, alley, mall or other
public place. Nor shall any person drive or move any vehicle or truck within
the town, the wheels or tires of which carry onto or deposit in any street,
alley, mall or other public place, an excessive amount of mud, dirt, sticky
substances, litter or foreign matter of any kind. (Ord. 150, 3-18-2004)
11.70.100: LITTER IN PARKS:
No person shall place, throw or deposit litter in any park within the town
except in public receptacles and in such a manner that the litter will be
prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any part of the
park or upon any street, mall or other public place. Where public receptacles
are not provided, all such litter shall be carried away from the park by the
person responsible for its presence and properly disposed of elsewhere as
provided herein. (Ord. 150, 3-18-2004)
11.70.110: THROWING OR DISTRIBUTING HANDBILLS IN PUBLIC PLACES:
No person shall place, throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial
handbill in or upon any sidewalk, street, mall or other public place within the
town. Nor shall any person hand out or distribute or sell any handbill in any
public place provided, however, that it is not unlawful on any sidewalk,
street, mall or other public place within the town for any person to hand out
or distribute, without charge to the receiver thereof, any handbill to any
person willing to accept it. (Ord. 150, 3-18-2004)
11.70.120: PLACING HANDBILLS ON VEHICLES:
No person shall place, throw or deposit any handbill in or upon any vehicle;
provided, however, that it shall not be unlawful in any public place for a
person to hand out or distribute without charge to the receiver thereof, a
handbill to any occupant of a vehicle who is willing to accept it. (Ord. 150,
3-18-2004)
11.70.130: PLACEMENT OF HANDBILLS ON UNINHABITED OR VACANT PREMISES:
No person shall place, throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial
handbill in or upon any private premises which are temporarily or continuously
uninhabited or vacant. (Ord. 150, 3-18-2004)
11.70.140: DISTRIBUTION OF HANDBILLS TO PRIVATE PREMISES:
No person shall place, throw, deposit or distribute any commercial or
noncommercial handbill upon any occupied private premises unless it is securely
fastened in a manner which would prevent scattering or directly handed or
distributed to the occupant and further provided that the occupant has neither
appropriately indicated that the occupant does not wish to be disturbed nor
receive distribution of material. (Ord. 150, 3-18-2004)
11.70.150: POSTING NOTICES:
No person shall post or affix any notice, poster or other paper or device,
calculated to attract the attention of the public, to any lamppost, public
utility pole or shade tree, or upon any public structure or building, except as
may be authorized or required by law. (Ord. 150, 3-18-2004)
11.70.160: TEMPORARY NOTICES OF SALE:
It shall not be unlawful to temporarily post "garage sale", "yard sale",
"estate sale", and similar signs so long as notices are in compliance with the
town of Yucca Valley sign ordinance, and further provided that notices are
removed no later than five o'clock (5:00) P.M. nightly or immediately after
daily closing of noticed sale, whichever is earliest. (Ord. 150, 3-18-2004)
11.70.170: LITTER ON OCCUPIED PRIVATE PROPERTY:
No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied private property within
the town, whether owned by such person or not, except that the owner or person
in control of private property may maintain authorized private receptacles for
collection in such a manner that litter will be prevented from being carried or
deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk or other public place or
upon any private property. (Ord. 150, 3-18-2004)
11.70.180: OWNER TO MAINTAIN PREMISES FREE OF LITTER:
The owner or person in control of any private property shall at all times
maintain the premises free of litter; provided, however, that this section
shall not prohibit the storage of litter in authorized private receptacles for
collection. (Ord. 150, 3-18-2004)
11.70.190: LITTER ON VACANT LOTS:
No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open or vacant private property
within the town whether owned by such person or not. (Ord. 150, 3-18-2004)
11.70.200: DECLARATION OF NUISANCE:
Any violation of this chapter is declared a public nuisance. (Ord. 150, 3-18-
2004)
11.70.210: NOTIFICATION OF NUISANCE:
   A.   Whenever the town manager, code enforcement officer, or his designee
determines that any condition on the property within the town constitutes a
nuisance as declared herein, such person shall issue a notice to abate by
either of the following methods:
      1.   Mailing to the owner at the address shown on the last available
assessment roll and to any occupant of the property; or
      2.   By personal service on the owner, occupants, or person in charge of
the property.
   B.   The notice to abate shall be substantially in the form kept on file in
the office of the town clerk. (Ord. 150, 3-18-2004)
11.70.220: ABATEMENT BY THE TOWN:
If the nuisance is not completely abated by the owner, as directed, within the
time set forth above then the town manager shall cause the same to be abated by
town personnel or private contract, and entry upon the premises expressly
authorized for such purposes. Upon completion of the abatement by direction of
the town manager, the town manager shall cause a statement of costs thereof to
be prepared for submission to the town council. The town manager shall set the
time and place for the town council to receive and consider the statement of
costs, and shall serve on the owner or owners of the property a copy of the
statement of costs and a notice of the time and place at which the town council
will receive and consider the statement of costs. The statement of costs and
the notice of hearing shall be served on the owner(s) of the property in the
same manner as is provided in section
11.70.210 of this chapter. (Ord. 150, 3-18-2004)
11.70.230: REPORT; HEARING ON ASSESSMENT:
At the time and place set for receiving and considering the statement of costs,
the town council shall hear and pass upon the statement together with any
objection or protests raised by any of the persons liable to be assessed for
the costs of abating the nuisance. Thereupon, the town council may make any
such revision, correction or modification to the statement of costs as it may
deem appropriate, after which the statement as submitted, or as revised,
corrected or modified, shall be confirmed by resolution. Such hearing may be
continued from time to time. The decision of the town council shall be final.
The town clerk shall give notices of the town council's final decision
regarding the statement of costs to the owners of said property in the manner
set forth in section
11.70.210 of this chapter. (Ord. 150, 3-18-2004)
11.70.240: ASSESSMENT OF COSTS AND LIEN AGAINST PROPERTY:
The costs of abatement of a nuisance, as confirmed by the resolution of the
town council, shall constitute a special assessment against the property to
which it relates, and after its recording, as thus made and confirmed, the same
shall constitute a lien on said property in the amount of such assessment.
After the confirmation of the statement, a copy thereof shall be recorded in
the official records of the San Bernardino County and shall be transmitted to
the assessor and tax collector to add the amount of such assessment, or
assessments, to the next regular bills of taxes levied against the said
respective lot or parcel of land, and thereafter said amount shall be collected
at the same time and in the same manner as ordinary real property taxes are
collected, and shall be subject to the same penalties and the same procedure
for foreclosure and sale in the case of delinquency as provided for ordinary
real property taxes. (Ord. 150, 3-18-2004)
11.70.250: ALTERNATIVES:
Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prevent the town council from
ordering the town attorney to commence a civil action or other judicial or
administrative proceeding to abate the alleged nuisance or to obtain any other
appropriate remedy in addition to, as an alternative to, or in conjunction with
the procedures authorized by this chapter. Nor shall the implementation of this
chapter be deemed to prevent appropriate authorities from commencing a criminal
action based upon the conditions constituting the alleged nuisance. (Ord. 150,
3-18-2004)
11.70.260: EMERGENCY ABATEMENT:
Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, whenever the town manager
determines that any real property or any building, structure or condition
thereof is dangerous or constitutes an immediate threat to public health, or
safety, he shall, without being required to observe the provisions of this
chapter with reference to the abatement procedures, immediately and forthwith
abate such public nuisance. Where such condition and the abatement is
immediately required, the town manager shall prepare a statement of costs in
respect thereto. (Ord. 150, 3-18-2004)
11.70.270: VIOLATIONS:
Every person who causes or maintains any public nuisance as defined in this
chapter, or who fails to comply with an order of abatement made pursuant to
this chapter, is guilty of a violation of this chapter and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished in accordance with the provisions of
chapter 1.02 of this code. (Ord. 150, 3-18-2004)
CHAPTER 11.80
USE OF PARK FACILITIES
SECTION:
11.80.010: Purpose And Intent
11.80.020: Definitions
11.80.030: Compliance Required
11.80.040: Park And Facility Regulations
11.80.045: Use Of Dog Park Facilities
11.80.050: Reservations And Permits
11.80.060: Enforcement
11.80.070: Penalties
11.80.080: Severability
11.80.010: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The town council declares that the town of Yucca Valley's public parks are
provided and maintained for active and passive public recreation and for town
sponsored recreational, cultural, civic and social activities, programs and
events. This chapter is designed to ensure the maximum safety and enjoyment of
the parks by residents and visitors. (Ord. 171, 8-11-2005)
11.80.020: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context in which used requires otherwise, the following words and
phrases shall have the meanings set forth in this section when used in this
chapter. Variants of defined terms shall be construed in the same manner set
forth herein for the defined terms themselves.
AMPLIFIED SOUND: Music, sound wave, vibration or speech projected or
transmitted by electronic equipment, including amplifiers.
APPLICANT: The individual or organization that shall be responsible for all
rental fees, deposits, and compliance with facility use requirements in a
transaction involving the reserved use of town facilities.
BOUNCE HOUSE: An inflatable apparatus designed for use as a slide or for
jumping; also referred to as a "jumper" or "bouncer".
BUILDING: Public buildings owned, leased and/or managed by the town of Yucca
Valley.
COMMISSION: The parks, recreation and cultural commission whose members are
appointed by the Yucca Valley town council.
COUNCIL: The elected town council of the town of Yucca Valley.
DEPARTMENT: The town of Yucca Valley's community services department unless
otherwise specified.
DIRECTOR: The director of community services of the town of Yucca Valley or
his/her designee.
FACILITY: The town of Yucca Valley parks, buildings and rooms and other spaces
within the parks and buildings.
KNIFE OR DAGGER: Any knife or dagger having a blade of three inches (3") or
more in length; any ice pick or similar sharp stabbing tool; and any
straightedge razor blade fitted to a handle.
PARK: All developed or undeveloped facilities owned or leased by the town of
Yucca Valley and designated for recreational purposes or conserved for scenic
or historical interest, including the landscaping and recreational elements of
such facilities.
PARK AUTHORITY: The director and/or the commission acting on behalf of the
Yucca Valley town council.
PERMIT: Written authorization for use of a park or recreation facility, or any
portion thereof, pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
SKATEPARK: Any facility or structure designed specifically for use by
skateboarding, in-line skating, and roller skating which has been designated by
the town as a "skatepark".
VEHICLE: Any device by which any person or property may be transported,
propelled, moved or drawn, excepting a device moved by human power. (Ord. 171,
8-11-2005)
11.80.030: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
No person shall enter, be, or remain in any park or facility unless he/she
complies at all times with all of the town ordinances and regulations
applicable to such park or facility and with all other applicable laws,
ordinances, rules and regulations. (Ord. 171, 8-11-2005)
11.80.040: PARK AND FACILITY REGULATIONS:
   A.   Equal Opportunity: All persons shall be provided with an equal
opportunity for the use of all parks, facilities and recreational programs
without regard to physical limitation, age, race, color, national origin,
religion, political beliefs or gender.
   B.   Amplified Sounds: While recognizing that certain uses of sound
amplifying equipment are protected by the constitutional rights of free speech
and assembly, the town of Yucca Valley is permitted and obligated to reasonably
regulate the use of sound amplifying equipment in order to protect the
correlative rights of residents to privacy and freedom from the public nuisance
of loud and unnecessary sound.
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to install, use and operate
within a park or facility, a loudspeaker or any sound amplifying equipment for
the purpose of giving instruction, directions, talks, addresses or lectures, or
of transmitting music to any persons or groups in any park or facility unless
authorized in writing by the park authority and operating in compliance with
the conditions of such authorization.
      2.   In determining whether to grant or deny a permit, the park authority
shall be guided by the following considerations:
         a.   The constitutional free speech and assembly rights of all persons
including the applicant;
         b.   The possible effects upon the peaceable passage or presence of
persons in the park;
         c.   The potential for disorder or unlawful injury to persons or
property;
         d.   The possible unlawful breach or disturbance of the peace; and
         e.   Any actual conflict with other scheduled park uses or events.
      3.   The park authority shall not deny a permit on the basis of any
dislike or disagreement with the content of any proposed talks, addresses,
lectures or musical presentations. The park authority may, however, deny a
permit for events which are designed for the purpose of advocating imminent
lawless conduct.
      4.   Amplifiers permitted in the parks shall be operated only through a
power source provided by the town, i.e., a battery or a generator.
   C.   Park Hours: Town of Yucca Valley parks are open daily to all persons
from six o'clock (6:00) A.M. until eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. No person shall
remain in any park between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and six
o'clock (6:00) A.M. without written permission from the director.
   D.   Bounce Houses: Users of bounce houses at town of Yucca Valley parks and
facilities are subject to the following conditions and requirements:
      1.   All users must receive the written approval of the director prior to
setting up a bounce house or similar apparatus at a town park or other public
facility.
         a.   A copy of the bounce house rental agreement and verification of
insurance coverage (naming the town of Yucca Valley as an additional insured)
shall be provided to the department.
         b.   The specific location of the bounce house shall be identified.
         c.   If stakes are to be used for bounce house setup or tethering, the
specific locations of stakes shall be identified.
      2.   Bounce house shall be set up by qualified representatives of the
bounce house rental company.
      3.   Bounce house users shall be responsible for providing a generator
for inflation and deflation of the apparatus.
      4.   Bounce houses shall not be set up or remain set up in excessively
windy or other adverse weather conditions.
      5.   The duration of the setup time shall not exceed four (4) hours for
any bounce house set up on grass.
      6.   Bounce house users shall provide sufficient supervision so that the
use is in compliance with the manufacturer's recommendations and reflects a
reasonable level of safe operation.
      7.   The applicant shall be responsible for any damage to town property
resulting from said use.
   E.   Damaging Property Prohibited: No person shall disturb, destroy, remove
or injure any property in any public park. No person shall cut, carve, paint,
or mark on any tree, fence, wall, building monument or other property within
park boundaries. No person shall paste or fasten any bill, advertisement or
inscription in any park without the prior written permission of the director.
   F.   Damaging Plant Life, Animals And Historic Material Prohibited:
      1.   Except when permission is granted by the park authority, no person
shall wilfully pull from the ground, tramp, cut or pick flowers, leaves, limbs
or branches or other parts from, or otherwise injure, destroy or deface any
vine, bush, tree or plants of any kind, either living or dead, within the
boundaries of any town park.
      2.   Except when written permission is granted by the park authority, no
person shall remove, harm, alter or destroy any animal, reptile or bird,
including nests and eggs; or remove or destroy articles or artifacts of
historical, archaeological, botanical or paleontological nature or geological
or mineral resources in or from any park.
   G.   Animal Regulations:
      1.   No person shall bring, transport, hitch, ride or let loose any
animal or fowl in any park unless such animal is securely leashed on a leash,
not more than six feet (6') in length and in the immediate control of a
responsible person at all times. An animal is securely leashed within the
meaning of this section when the animal is securely tied or otherwise fastened
or attached to one end of a chain, cord, rope or other restraining device, the
other end of which is either securely attached to a stationary object or in the
possession of a responsible person so that the animal is prevented from running
at large.
      2.   Owners of animals are responsible for the conduct of any animal and
for the disposal of all waste and fecal matter while within the park
boundaries.
      3.   No person shall leave a dog, cat or other animal unattended within
the boundaries of any park.
      4.   With the exception of seeing eye dogs in use, no dog, cat or other
animal is permitted in the area of a public pool, in any public restroom
facility, or any other structure at a public park.
      5.   No person shall permit a dog, cat or other pet to remain outside a
tent, camper or vehicle during the night.
      6.   After being requested by the director to remove any animal from a
park, no person shall remain in any park with a noisy, vicious or dangerous dog
or other animal.
      7.   Any person bringing a dog into a park must be prepared to present
proof of a current valid dog license upon request of the director.
      8.   Pets or other animals are not permitted in the immediate area of any
special events taking place within park boundaries unless specific provisions
have been made by the park authority. Seeing eye dogs and other designated
assistance dogs are not subject to these restrictions.
      9.   Exceptions to these requirements may be issued by the director in
conjunction with certain authorized activities and subject to reasonable
conditions.
   H.   Skatepark Regulations:
      1.   Town of Yucca Valley skatepark facilities are open for public use
daily from dawn until dusk.
      2.   No person shall use the skatepark for purposes other than
skateboarding, in-line skating, or rollerblading.
      3.   No person shall possess, use or be under the influence of alcohol or
drugs while using the skatepark or surrounding park areas.
      4.   Glass containers are not permitted in the designated skateboarding/
skating areas.
      5.   No additional obstacles may be placed on the designated
skateboarding/skating areas.
      6.   Skatepark users are required to wear properly fitted and fastened
helmets, kneepads, wrist guards, and elbow pads at all times.
   I.   Operation Of Vehicles:
      1.   No person shall drive or otherwise operate a vehicle in any park
upon surfaces other than those maintained and open to the public for purposes
of vehicular travel, except on temporary parking areas as may be designated
from time to time by the park authority. This prohibition does not apply to
vehicles in the service of the town, animal control vehicles, law enforcement
vehicles and motorized wheelchairs.
      2.   No person shall park any vehicle within a park except for the
duration of his/her visit to the park. No person shall leave or park any motor
vehicle at any place other than places designated for vehicle parking.
      3.   The provisions of the California Vehicle Code are applicable in the
town parks and all violations of the Vehicle Code shall be enforced and
prosecuted in accordance with the provisions thereof.
   J.   Prohibited Activities:
      1.   Soliciting; Peddling Food And Beverages: No person shall sell or
offer to sell or engage in the business of soliciting, selling, fortune
telling, or peddling any foods or beverages in any park unless specifically
authorized in writing by the park authority.
      2.   Peddling Merchandise: No person shall distribute flyers, circulars
or advertisements, peddle or vend any goods, wares, or merchandise within the
boundaries of any park unless authorized in writing by the park authority.
      3.   Gambling: No gambling of any kind shall be permitted within the
boundaries of any park.
      4.   Public Nudity And Disrobing: No person shall publicly appear nude or
disrobe while in any area of any park except in authorized areas of buildings
set aside for changing clothes.
      5.   Abusive Language, Disorderly Assemblage, Disturbance:
         a.   No person shall use threatening, abusive, boisterous, insulting
or indecent language or make indecent gestures in any park.
         b.   No person shall conduct or participate in a disorderly assemblage
in any park.
      6.   Alcoholic Beverages: No person shall possess any can, bottle or
other receptacle containing any alcoholic beverage that has been opened, with a
seal broken, or the contents partially removed, without a permit issued by the
director.
      7.   Fireworks: No person shall possess, discharge, set off, or cause to
be discharged in or into any park, firecrackers, sparklers, torpedoes, rocket
fireworks, oil, explosives, or any other substance potentially harmful to the
life and safety of persons or local fauna and flora.
      8.   Rubbish:
         a.   No person shall deposit, place, throw, or in any manner dispose
of any rubbish, trash, garbage, or any other material which is or might become
injurious to the health of any person, in or upon any park except in containers
provided for that purpose by the park authority.
         b.   No person shall import and deposit any trash, rubbish or debris
from other places onto any area of any park.
         c.   No person shall deposit or cause to be deposited any waste,
water, sewage or effluent from sinks, portable toilets, or other plumbing
fixtures directly into or upon the surface of the ground or water.
      9.   Hunting: No person shall hunt or trap in any park.
      10.   Fires:
         a.   No person shall light, build or maintain any fires in any park,
except in portable barbecues, camp stoves, or stoves provided in designated
areas by the park authority.
         b.   No wood shall be cut or gathered in any park.
         c.   No person shall smoke in any area prohibited for that purpose and
so posted.
      11.   Firearms:
         a.   No person shall possess or carry a firearm with a cartridge in
any portion of the mechanism (except any federal, state, county, or local law
enforcement officer in the performance of his/her official duties) within the
boundaries of any park.
         b.   No person shall discharge across, in, or into, any portion of any
public park, a firearm, bow and arrow, or air or gas weapon, or any device
capable of injuring or killing any animal, or damaging or destroying any public
or private property. (Ord. 171, 8-11-2005)
11.80.045: USE OF DOG PARK FACILITIES:
   A.   Dog Park Rules And Regulations: Notwithstanding the provisions of
subsection
11.80.040G of this chapter, dogs shall be permitted off leash in designated
"dog parks" subject to the following rules and regulations:
      1.   Hours: Sunrise to dusk.
      2.   Leashes: Dogs must be leashed when entering or exiting the dog park.
      3.   No Other Animals: No animals other than dogs are permitted.
      4.   Number Of Dogs Per Owner/Handler: No more than four (4) dogs per
owner/handler.
      5.   Age; Licensed And Vaccinated: Dogs must be at least four (4) months
old, licensed and current on vaccinations. Proof must be provided upon the
request of Yucca Valley animal control staff.
      6.   Fixed Dogs: Only spayed and neutered dogs are permitted in the park.
      7.   Aggressive Dogs: Aggressive, unmanageable and/or unruly dogs are not
permitted; dogs that have been formally declared as "vicious" or "potentially
dangerous" by any local agency are not permitted. Dogs must be leashed and
removed at the first sign of aggression, mounting, or hostile/aggressive
behavior toward people or other animals.
      8.   Sick Dogs: Sick dogs with communicable diseases (i.e., mange, fleas,
DHLPP, corona, Lyme's disease, bordello, rabies or other such communicable
illnesses) or injured dogs with open wounds are not permitted.
      9.   Small Dog Area: No dogs over twenty five (25) pounds allowed inside
of the small dog park.
      10.   Dog Collars: No choke, prong, pinch or spiked collars are
permitted.
      11.   Children: Children under twelve (12) are not permitted in the dog
park.
      12.   Unauthorized Equipment: No unauthorized equipment or apparatus is
allowed in the dog park, including, without limitation, strollers, carriages,
children's toys, scooters, skateboards, bicycles, etc.
      13.   Off Leash Dogs: Off leash dogs must remain inside the fenced area
and be accompanied by, and under voice control of, their owners/handlers at all
times.
      14.   Owners/Handlers To Have Leash: Owners/handlers must keep a leash on
their person at all times.
      15.   Unattended Dogs: Owners/handlers may not leave their dogs
unattended inside of the park.
      16.   Responsibility For Injury Or Damage: Owners/handlers are solely
responsible for injuries or damage caused by their dog.
      17.   Courtesy: Owners/handlers are to extend courtesy to other dog park
users. This includes keeping dogs from jumping at or annoying others.
      18.   Excessive Barking: Dogs barking excessively must be quieted or
removed.
      19.   No Food, Smoking, Alcohol, Etc.: No smoking, drug use, alcoholic
beverages, food (animal or people) or dog treats are permitted. No glass
containers are permitted in the dog park.
      20.   Unrelated Dog Activities Prohibited: No activities unrelated to
dogs are allowed (i.e., kite flying, sports activities, contests,
skateboarding, bicycling, etc.). Dog parks are to be used by dog owners/
handlers and their dogs only. All other activities or loitering are prohibited.
      21.   Gates To Be Kept Closed: Except when entering and exiting, gates
must be kept closed at all times.
      22.   Cleanup: Owners/handlers are to clean up after their dogs. Dog
feces shall be deposited in plastic bags that are sealed before depositing in
the trash receptacles.
      23.   Maintenance Closures: The dog park is subject to periodic closure
without notice for maintenance.
      24.   Dog Events Prohibited: Dog obedience classes, competitions, or
events other than those officially authorized by the town of Yucca Valley are
prohibited.
      25.   Digging: Owners/handlers shall prevent or stop their dogs from
digging in the park. Any holes created must be filled by the owner/handler.
      26.   Use Of Park At Own Risk: Dog owners/handlers using the dog park are
using it at their own risk. The town is not responsible for injuries to people
and dogs or illnesses dogs may contract.
      27.   Ejection From Park: The town reserves the right to eject anyone
from the dog park at any time for any reason. If any animal and/or owner/
handler is ejected from the dog park for a violation of these rules, the town
may refuse to permit reentry of such dog or owner/handler in the park.
   B.   Designated Dog Parks: The town council shall designate official "dog
park" areas from time to time by resolution.
   C.   Civil Remedies Available: The violation of any provisions of this
section shall constitute a nuisance and may be abated by the town through civil
processes or by means of a restraining order, injunction or any other manner
provided by law for the abatement of nuisances.
   D.   Other Penalties: Failure to comply with dog park rules could result in
a citation and/or fine in accordance with title 1, chapters 1.02 and 1.04 of
this code. (Ord. 236, 10-2-2012)
11.80.050: RESERVATIONS AND PERMITS:
   A.   Applicant may apply for the reserved use of town parks and facilities
at least fourteen (14) days and no more than thirteen (13) months prior to any
proposed event.
   B.   Applicant shall complete and return a facility use application, as
provided by department, and submit all required diagrams, deposits, permits,
contracts, and insurance documents to department at least fourteen (14) days
prior to the date of requested use. Department shall issue a permit and any
required conditions of use to the applicant no less than seven (7) days prior
to the event.
   C.   Applicant shall notify department of any cancellation at least forty
eight (48) hours prior to the scheduled event or activity. Failure to give the
required notice may result in forfeiture of the deposit in the sole discretion
of department.
   D.   Park authority reserves the right to refuse to issue a permit to any
applicant who has previously not complied with the requirements and/or
regulations of this chapter. The grounds for the denial of the permit applied
for shall be specified in writing.
   E.   Without the written permission of director, no applicant shall place
signs, banners, or other such materials in or on parks or facilities, which
signs, banners or materials shall be requested in the facility use application.
(Ord. 171, 8-11-2005)
11.80.060: ENFORCEMENT:
The director shall have the primary responsibility for the enforcement of this
chapter. Members of the police department are hereby authorized to enter all
public parks and facilities to maintain public order, to prevent, remedy and/or
take other appropriate action with respect to violations of the provisions of
this chapter or of other applicable laws or regulations. (Ord. 171, 8-11-2005)
11.80.070: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person violating or causing or permitting the violation of any
regulation set forth in subsection
11.80.040J6, J7, J9, J10 or J11 of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and is punishable as such in accordance with the provisions of
subsection
1.02.040A of this code.
   B.   Any person who violates any other subsection or section of this chapter
shall be guilty of an infraction and is punishable as such in accordance with
the provisions of subsection
1.02.040B of this code.
   C.   In addition to any other penalty for violation of this chapter, the
director may require the violator to immediately leave the park or facility and
remain out of all town parks and facilities for the remainder of the day on
which the violation occurred. (Ord. 171, 8-11-2005)
11.80.080: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this chapter is for
any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by a final determination of a
court of competent jurisdiction, such determination shall not affect the
validity of the remaining portions of this chapter. The town council declares
that it would have enacted this chapter, and each section, subsection,
sentence, clause and phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or
more sections, subsections, sentences, clauses and phrases might be declared
invalid or unconstitutional. (Ord. 171, 8-11-2005)
CHAPTER 11.90
[RESERVED]
CHAPTER 11.100
SIDEWALK MAINTENANCE AND REPAIRS
SECTION:
11.100.010: Purpose And Intent
11.100.020: Definitions
11.100.030: Owners Of Frontage Responsible For Repair
11.100.040: Notice To Property Owner
11.100.050: Contents Of Notice
11.100.060: Director Of Public Works To Repair If Owner Fails To Do So
11.100.070: Notice Of Cost And Claim Of Lien
11.100.080: Appeals Process
11.100.090: Collection By Town
11.100.100: Recording Of Lien
11.100.110: Release Of Lien
11.100.120: Sidewalk Improvement; Permit Required
11.100.130: Sidewalk Improvement Unlawful Without Permit
11.100.140: Liability For Unsafe Conditions And Injury To Public
11.100.150: Revolving Fund
11.100.010: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
California Streets and Highways Code sections 5600 et seq., provide that owners
of lots or portions of lots fronting on any portion of a public street, when
that street or place is improved or if and when the area between the property
line of the adjacent property and the street line is maintained as a park or
parking strip, shall maintain the sidewalk in such condition that it will not
endanger persons or property or interfere with the public convenience in the
use of those works or areas.
To promote the public health, safety and general welfare, the council finds it
necessary to enact this chapter, which may be referred to collectively as the
SIDEWALK MAINTENANCE ORDINANCE. (Ord. 200, 2-26-2009)
11.100.020: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings set forth below. Unless in direct conflict with terms defined herein,
other words and phrases shall be interpreted as defined in the Streets and
Highways Code:
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS: Director of public works or his or her designee.
DRIVEWAY APPROACH: The concrete structure located in the public right of way
between the public street and a driveway or parking area on private property.
PLANTING STRIP: The area of the street lying between the curb line and the
street line or edge of right of way along any street; including the sidewalk.
PROPERTY OWNER: Without limitation, the fee owner of real property and the
person or persons in possession of the real property.
SIDEWALK: Any area provided for the use of pedestrians, including planting
areas, driveway approaches or parking strips, between the public vehicular
roadway and the edge of right of way bordering adjacent private property.
STREET TREE: Any woody perennial plant having a single main axis or stem
achieving ten feet (10') or more in height, growing within a street right of
way; planted within a street right of way and/or designated planting easement.
(Ord. 200, 2-26-2009)
11.100.030: OWNERS OF FRONTAGE RESPONSIBLE FOR REPAIR:
It shall be the duty of the property owner(s) of lots or portions of lots
adjacent to any portion of a public street, avenue, alley, lane, court or place
to maintain the sidewalks and sidewalk area, including any parking strip or
driveway approach, in a safe nondangerous condition. The property owner has the
primary and exclusive duty to fund and perform such repair and maintenance,
whether or not the town has notified the property owner of the need for such
repairs or maintenance or has performed similar repairs or maintenance in the
past. (Ord. 200, 2-26-2009)
11.100.040: NOTICE TO PROPERTY OWNER:
When any portion of a sidewalk or driveway approach is not in good repair and
condition and the director of public works has knowledge thereof, he or she
will notify the adjacent property owner to repair it. Notice shall be written
and given by mailing, either by letter or postal card, to the property owner's
last known address, as it appears on the last assessment rolls of the county of
San Bernardino. This section does not create a mandatory duty. (Ord. 200, 2-26-
2009)
11.100.050: CONTENTS OF NOTICE:
The notice shall direct the property owner to repair the sidewalk and specify
what work is required to be done, how the work is to be done, and what
materials shall be used in such repair, and shall further specify that, if the
property owner chooses not to repair the sidewalk after ninety (90) days'
notice, the director of public works may schedule such repair to be made at
property owner expense and obtain a lien against the property in accordance
with section
11.10.110 of this title if the property owner fails to reimburse the town for
repair costs. (Ord. 200, 2-26-2009)
11.100.060: DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS TO REPAIR IF OWNER FAILS TO DO SO:
If the repair is not commenced and prosecuted to completion as required by the
notice, the director of public works may repair said sidewalk. The cost of such
repair shall be an obligation to the town owed by the adjacent property owner.
If the property owner fails to reimburse town costs of repair within sixty (60)
days of completion of the repairs, the town shall obtain a lien on the adjacent
property in accordance with section
11.10.110 of this title. (Ord. 200, 2-26-2009)
11.100.070: NOTICE OF COST AND CLAIM OF LIEN:
Upon completion of the repair, the director of public works shall ascertain the
repair cost and apportion it, if the area repaired is adjacent to more than one
lot of land. The director of public works shall notify the property owner by
mail of the repair and demand payment to the town within sixty (60) days of
completion of the repairs. The property owner shall be obligated to the town in
the amount of the cost of repair. If the property owner fails to reimburse the
town's repair cost, the town shall obtain a lien for such cost of repair upon
any such lot of land. (Ord. 200, 2-26-2009)
11.100.080: APPEALS PROCESS:
The notice of cost shall allow the property owner to appeal the determination
as to the responsible property owner(s) of the amount owed. The request to
appeal the claim must be in writing and filed within ten (10) calendar days of
the date of the director of public works' notice to the property owner of the
cost of repair. The appeal shall designate with particularity the decision,
action or determination appealed from and the remedy or relief sought by way of
the appeal. The appeal shall be filed with the public works secretary, who
shall set the hearing for the next regularly scheduled meeting of the town
council. At the hearing, the council shall receive all evidence offered by the
property owner and town staff. At the conclusion of the hearing, the council
shall make its findings. If the council finds that the initial decision, action
or determination that is appealed from is consistent with the provisions and
policies of this chapter and is not otherwise injurious to the public health,
safety or welfare, then the appeal shall be denied. If it finds that the
initial decision, action or determination is either inconsistent with the
provisions and policies of this chapter or is otherwise injurious to the public
health, safety or welfare, then the council may sustain the appeal and in its
decision grant any remedy or relief sought by the property owner, or such other
relief as it deems appropriate, that is consistent with the provisions and
policies of this chapter. (Ord. 200, 2-26-2009)
11.100.090: COLLECTION BY TOWN:
In the event the cost of repair to the sidewalk is not paid after a sixty (60)
day notice of cost, and an appeal has not been filed or has been denied, the
director of public works shall endeavor diligently to collect the same on
behalf of the town and all amounts paid or collected shall replenish the
revolving fund as provided in this chapter. (Ord. 200, 2-26-2009)
11.100.100: RECORDING OF LIEN:
After the sixty (60) day delinquent period, the director of public works shall
place a lien on the adjacent property in accordance with section
11.10.110 of this title. (Ord. 200, 2-26-2009)
11.100.110: RELEASE OF LIEN:
On payment of the amount owed, the director of public works shall request that
the county recorder remove the lien. (Ord. 200, 2-26-2009)
11.100.120: SIDEWALK IMPROVEMENT; PERMIT REQUIRED:
Before constructing, repairing, or replacing the sidewalk in front of a lot or
lots adjacent to a public street, avenue, alley, lane, court, or place, the
owner of said lot or lots shall obtain an encroachment permit from the
department of public works/engineering. The encroachment permit fee shall be
waived. Bonds and certificate of insurance may be required at the discretion of
the public works director. (Ord. 200, 2-26-2009)
11.100.130: SIDEWALK IMPROVEMENT UNLAWFUL WITHOUT PERMIT:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to construct, repair,
or replace any sidewalk within the town of Yucca Valley, without first
obtaining a permit from the department of public works/engineering unless the
director of public works decides that no permit is needed. (Ord. 200, 2-26-
2009)
11.100.140: LIABILITY FOR UNSAFE CONDITIONS AND INJURY TO PUBLIC:
The property owner required by section
11.100.030 of this chapter to maintain and repair the sidewalk area shall owe a
duty to members of the public to keep and maintain the sidewalk area in a safe
and nondangerous condition. If, as a result of the failure of any property
owner to maintain the sidewalk area in a nondangerous condition as required by
section
11.100.030 of this chapter, any person suffers injury or damage to person or
property, the property owner shall be liable to such person for the resulting
damages or injury. (Ord. 200, 2-26-2009)
11.100.150: REVOLVING FUND:
A fund shall be provided to cover initially the cost of making sidewalk repairs
as provided under section
11.100.060 of this chapter and if the property owner wishes to have the town
make the repairs. The revolving fund will be replenished by appropriation and
by all monies paid or collected from sidewalk repairs and repairs in unaccepted
public rights of way and liens. (Ord. 200, 2-26-2009)
CHAPTER 11.110
ABANDONED SHOPPING CARTS
SECTION:
11.110.010: Findings And Purpose
11.110.020: Definitions
11.110.030: Declaration Of A Public Nuisance
11.110.040: Mandatory Effective Shopping Cart Nuisance Abatement Program
11.110.050: Removal Of Shopping Carts From Retail Establishments Prohibited
11.110.060: Retrieval Of Abandoned Carts From Within The Town
11.110.070: Nuisance Abatement And Administrative Fees
11.110.080: Penalty For Violation
11.110.010: FINDINGS AND PURPOSE:
The Town of Yucca Valley finds that abandoned shopping carts in the Town create
potential hazard to the health and safety of the public, and interfere with
pedestrian and vehicular traffic and create a public nuisance. The accumulation
of abandoned carts on public and private property tends to create conditions
that reduce property values, and promote blight and deterioration that result
in a public nuisance. This chapter is intended to ensure that measures are
taken by the owners of shopping carts to prevent the removal of the shopping
carts from the owner's premises, to make removal of the shopping cart without
the owner's approval a violation of this Code, and to facilitate the retrieval
of abandoned shopping carts in a manner consistent with State law.
Retail establishments owning five (5) shopping carts or fewer are exempt from
the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 276, 2-6-2018)
11.110.020: DEFINITIONS:
ABANDONED SHOPPING CARTS: Means any cart that is located outside the premises
or parking lot of a retail establishment which owns the cart, except a cart
that is in the physical possession of a person who has the written consent of
the cart's owner.
CART OWNER: Means every business or person who, in connection with the conduct
of a retail establishment owns, rightfully possesses, or makes any cart
available to patrons and/or the public. This shall include the owner's agent or
authorized representative.
CONTRACTOR: Means an authorized independent contractor approved by the Town
Council for the purpose of effecting the removal of abandoned shopping carts.
EFFECTIVE SHOPPING CART NUISANCE ABATEMENT PROGRAM: Means the retail
establishment's ongoing activities to prevent the theft and abandonment of
shopping carts from their parking area, combined with the retail
establishment's ongoing activity to retrieve any abandoned shopping cart owned
by the retail establishment from public or private property within the Town
within forty eight (48) hours.
IDENTIFIED CART: Means a shopping cart that has a permanently affixed sign that
identifies, in accordance with California Business and Professions Code section
22435.1, the owner of the cart or the retailer, or both; notifies the public of
the procedure to be utilized for authorized removal of the cart from the
owner's premises; notifies the public that the unauthorized removal of the cart
from the cart owner's premises or cart owner's parking area or the unauthorized
possession of the cart, is a violation of State law; and lists a valid
telephone number or address for returning the cart to the owner or retailer. If
the cart owner operates more than one store, the sign shall identify the
location of the store where the cart is used.
PARKING AREA: Means a parking lot or other property provided by a retail
establishment for use by a customer for parking an automobile or other vehicle.
In a multi-store complex or shopping center, "parking area" includes the entire
parking area used by or controlled by the complex or center.
PERSON: Means a natural person, firm, association, organization, partnership,
business, trust, corporation, limited liability company, or other entity.
RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT: Means any trade establishment selling articles,
commodities, services, or any line of merchandise where shopping carts are made
available for and used by patrons and/or the public.
SHOPPING CART OR CART: Means a basket that is mounted on wheels or a similar
device generally used in retail establishments by a patron and/or the public
for the purpose of transporting goods of any kind. Shopping cart also includes
a cart used in a coin- operated laundry or dry-cleaning retail establishment
for purposes of transporting clothes and necessary cleaning materials.
TOWN: Means the Town of Yucca Valley or its designated representatives.
UNIDENTIFIED CART: Means a shopping cart that is not an identified cart, as
defined above. (Ord. 276, 2-6-2018)
11.110.030: DECLARATION OF A PUBLIC NUISANCE:
Any abandoned shopping cart is declared to constitute a public nuisance that
could impede emergency services, interfere with pedestrian and vehicular
traffic, reduce property values, promote blight and deterioration, comprise an
attractive nuisance and create other hazards to the health, safety, and general
welfare of the community. (Ord. 276, 2-6-2018)
11.110.040: MANDATORY EFFECTIVE SHOPPING CART NUISANCE ABATEMENT PROGRAM:
It is unlawful for any person owning a retail establishment located in the Town
where shopping carts are available for customer use not to implement and
maintain an effective shopping cart nuisance abatement program. Effectiveness
is measured by the performance of the retail establishment's program and by the
standards set forth in subsection E of this section. Any cart owner shall
implement and use any reasonable means in any combination to: a) prevent the
removal or theft of their shopping carts from their premises and parking area
and subsequent abandonment of their shopping carts within the Town limits; and
b) if such prevention measures are not one hundred percent (100%) effective,
cart owners shall retrieve any and all their abandoned shopping carts from
within the Town boundaries within forty eight (48) hours. The effective program
must also have the following minimum requirements:
   A.   The retail establishment must register that they own shopping carts for
the use of their customers on their premises with the Town Administrative
Services Department within sixty (60) days of this chapter taking effect or at
the time of business registration application or renewal, whichever is later,
and must have an effective shopping cart nuisance abatement program within six
(6) months of adoption of this chapter or commencing with the issuance of a
business registration or the renewal of the business registration, whichever is
later. This registration must include a contact phone number at the retail
establishment in Yucca Valley for the person or persons, or job title of the
person who will be responsible for accepting all shopping carts retrieved by
the Town and returned to the retail establishment during its normal hours of
business.
   B.   The owner shall provide signage on their premises in a conspicuous
location notifying shopping cart users that removal of shopping carts from the
premises or parking area is prohibited without the written consent of the
retail establishment.
   C.   The owner of a retail establishment shall mark all shopping carts used
in its business by its customers as required by California Business and
Professions Code section 22435.1. The owner shall permanently affix a sign to
each cart that identifies the owner of the cart or the retailer, or both;
notifies the public of the procedure to be utilized for authorized removal of
the cart from the cart owner's premises; notifies the public that the
unauthorized removal of the cart from the cart owner's premises or cart owner's
parking area or the unauthorized possession of the cart is a violation of State
law; lists a valid telephone number, or address for returning the cart to the
cart owner.
Each day during which the retail establishment owning more than five (5)
shopping carts has not registered with the Town and each day all of the carts
of a retail establishment are not marked as required by this section shall
constitute a separate violation.
   D.   A customer outreach process under which the cart owner shall cause
additional notice to be provided to customers in addition to the standard
signage and marking of the shopping cart as per subsections B and C of this
section that the removal of carts from the premises is prohibited and is a
violation of State and local law. This customer outreach notification may
include, but is not limited to, flyers distributed at the premises, warnings on
shopping bags, direct mail, announcements using intercom systems at the
premises, website communication, and other available information tools. It may
also include marketing to customers their own personal cart for use in lieu of
the retail establishment's shopping cart. The exact means and frequency of this
outreach is to be determined by the retail establishment.
   E.   Either an effective containment program for physically preventing the
shopping carts from being removed from the retail establishment parking area,
or an effective retrieval program to retrieve abandoned carts within forty
eight (48) hours, or both.
For purposes of this section, "effective containment program" means a system
selected by the retail establishment that results in no more than five (5)
shopping carts being removed without the owner's consent from the business
premises or parking area within the twelve (12) month period commencing with
the issuance of a business registration or the renewal of the business
registration (minimum of 5 carts in a 12 month time period). An effective
containment system may include one or more of the following measures:
      1.   Disabling devices on all shopping carts which prevent them from
being removed from the business premises by locking the wheels or otherwise
preventing the movement of the carts.
      2.   An on-site security guard to deter customers who attempt to remove
carts from the business premises.
      3.   Bollards and chains around the business premises to prevent cart
removal, if permitted by the Fire Marshal.
      4.   Any other measure approved by the Director of Planning and Building
as a means to contain carts on premises.
An "effective retrieval program" shall mean no more than five (5) abandoned
shopping carts are collected by the Town or its contractor within the Town
limits and returned to the retail establishment within the twelve (12) month
period commencing with the issuance of a business registration or the renewal
of the business registration (minimum of 5 carts in a 12 month time period).
There is a rebuttable presumption that a cart found abandoned somewhere off the
premises of the cart's owner was removed from the premises without the owner's
consent and that if the Town or its contractor removes it and returns it to the
retail establishment, the cart was abandoned for more than forty eight (48)
hours.
If a retail establishment has a valid and operational contract with a
contractor recognized by the Town to retrieve abandoned shopping carts and
return them to the retail establishment on an ongoing and regular basis of at
least three (3) times per week, then the owner is presumptively deemed to have
an effective shopping cart nuisance abatement program, which presumption may be
rebutted if the cart retrieval contractor fails to meet the standards for
"effectiveness" set forth in this subsection E. (Ord. 276, 2-6-2018)
11.110.050: REMOVAL OF SHOPPING CARTS FROM RETAIL ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person other than a cart owner or its authorized
representative to remove a cart from the premises of the owner's retail
establishment, unless the cart owner expressly authorizes its removal in
writing. (Ord. 276, 2-6-2018)
11.110.060: RETRIEVAL OF ABANDONED CARTS FROM WITHIN THE TOWN:
The Town, or any contractor duly retained by the Town for the retrieval of
abandoned carts, may retrieve any abandoned shopping cart and return the cart
to its owner if it has been abandoned outside the parking area of the retail
establishment and not retrieved by the owner or their contractor after forty
eight (48) hours. The owner of the shopping cart must make a store employee
available to be present during normal store hours to receive the returned carts
and document that they were returned. The Town shall recover its cost for this
activity through a nuisance abatement and administrative fee based upon the
Town's actual costs of abatement. (Ord. 276, 2-6-2018)
11.110.070: NUISANCE ABATEMENT AND ADMINISTRATIVE FEES:
   A.   Nuisance Abatement Fee: Retail establishments that have ineffective
abatement programs are subject to an annual nuisance abatement fee at the time
of renewal of their business registration equal to the cumulative cost to the
Town for retrieval and return of the retail establishment's abandoned shopping
carts over a twelve (12) month period commencing with the issuance of a
business registration or the renewal of the business registration.
   B.   Administrative Fee: An administrative fee to cover the Town's
administrative cost for the activities performed in section
11.110.060 of this chapter by the Town may also be imposed upon the owners of
abandoned shopping carts at the time of business registration renewal. Such fee
shall not exceed the Town's reasonable estimate of actual cost for such
services. (Ord. 276, 2-6-2018)
11.110.080: PENALTY FOR VIOLATION:
Violation of any provision of this chapter is a violation of this Code and the
Town may pursue any available remedy provided under this Code for a Code
violation, including the issuance of an administrative citation under section
1.04.030 of this Code.
Notwithstanding any other enforcement action allowed under this Code, the Town
Council may prescribe the civil fine for any person owning a retail
establishment who is given a civil citation for not having established an
effective shopping cart nuisance abatement program pursuant to section
11.110.040 of this chapter. (Ord. 276, 2-6-2018)
CHAPTER 11.120
PROHIBITION ON THE STORAGE OF PERSONAL PROPERTY ON PUBLIC PROPERTY
SECTION:
11.120.010: Findings
11.120.020: Definitions
11.120.030: Prohibition On The Storage Of Personal Property On Public Property
11.120.010: FINDINGS:
The public areas within the Town, including streets, sidewalks, parks, public
buildings and public lands, should be readily accessible and available to
residents and the public at large for use in a safe and healthy manner. The use
of these areas for purposes of certain types of storage interferes with the
ability of residents and the public at large to use the areas in the healthy
and safe manner for the uses intended. Nothing in this Chapter is intended to
interfere with otherwise lawful and ordinary uses of public or private
property. (Ord. 285, 6-4-2019)
11.120.020: DEFINITIONS:
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Any and all tangible property, and includes, but is not
limited to, goods, materials, merchandise, tents, tarpaulins, bedding, sleeping
bags, hammocks, and personal items such as luggage, backpacks, clothing,
documents, medication and household items.
PUBLIC PROPERTY: Any real or personal property owned or controlled by the Town
and includes, but is not limited to, any publicly owned park, building, street,
sidewalk, way, path, alley, parking lot, or other public property owned or
controlled by the Town and located within the Town of Yucca Valley and such
other publicly owned property for which Town is authorized by contract or
permit to maintain.
STORE, STORED, STORAGE OR STORING: To put aside or accumulate for use when
needed, to put for safekeeping, to place or leave in a location. (Ord. 285, 6-
4-2019)
11.120.030: PROHIBITION ON THE STORAGE OF PERSONAL PROPERTY ON PUBLIC PROPERTY:
Except as may otherwise be permitted by this Code, no person shall store any
personal property on public property. (Ord. 285, 6-4-2019)
TITLE 12
VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 12.20
SPECIAL SPEED LIMITS
SECTION:
12.20.010: Basis Of Change Or Determination
12.20.020: Changes In State Law Speed Limits
12.20.010: BASIS OF CHANGE OR DETERMINATION:
The prima facie speed limit declared for each street or portion thereof
designated in section
12.20.020 of this chapter is a speed limit which is either an increase from the
prima facie speed limit or a decrease from the maximum speed limit otherwise
applicable to such street or portion thereof pursuant to California Vehicle
Code, chapter 7 of division 11 commencing at section 22348 thereof. The
increase or decrease has been determined upon the basis of an engineering and
traffic survey. For each street or portion thereof upon which an increase in
the prima facie speed limit (otherwise applicable) has been declared, a
determination has been made that the increased declared prima facie speed limit
is the most appropriate to facilitate the orderly movement of traffic and is
reasonable and safe. For each street or portion thereof upon which a decrease
from the maximum speed limit (otherwise applicable) has been made and a lower
speed limit declared as the prima facie speed limit, a determination has been
made that the maximum speed limit (otherwise applicable) is more than is
reasonable or safe, and that the declared prima facie speed limit is most
appropriate to facilitate the orderly movement of traffic and is reasonable and
safe. (Ord. 27, 11-18-1992)
12.20.020: CHANGES IN STATE LAW SPEED LIMITS:
The prima facie speed limit declared in this section for each street or portion
of a street designated shall be effective from and after the posting of
appropriate signs giving notice thereof. The names of the streets upon which
special prima facie speed limits are hereby declared, the portion of such
streets affected by the declaration, and the declared prima facie speed limits
therefor is as follows:
                                Declared Prima
Name Of Street Portion Affected Facie Speed Limit
                                (In Miles Per Hour)
                                                            Declared Prima
Name Of Street         Portion Affected                     Facie Speed Limit
                                                            (In Miles Per Hour)
Acoma Trail            Onaga Trail to Joshua Drive          40
Acoma Trail            SR62 to Joshua Drive                 40
Acoma Trail            SR62 to Onaga Trail                  40
Airway Avenue          SR62 to Yucca Trail                  35
Amador Avenue          Joshua Drive to Golden Bee Drive     35
Amador Avenue          Onaga Trail to Joshua Drive          40
Amador Avenue          Onaga Trail to Kismet Road           40
Anaconda Drive         Joshua Drive to western terminus     35
Anaconda Drive         Rubidoux to western terminus         25
Avalon Avenue          SR62 to Yucca Trail                  45
Avalon/Palomar Avenue  SR62 to Joshua Drive                 45
Balsa Avenue           Joshua Drive to Joshua Lane          35
Balsa Avenue           SR62 to Hanford Avenue               35
Barron Drive           Yucca Mesa Road to Indio Avenue      40
Black Rock Canyon Road San Marino to south end              35
Bonanza Drive          Palomar Avenue to Carlyle Drive      35
Buena Vista Drive      SR247 to Yucca Mesa Road             55
Buena Vista Drive      Yucca Mesa Road to SR247             55
Carlyle Drive          Palomar Avenue to Warren Vista       35
                       Avenue
Desert Gold Drive      Palomar Avenue to Warren Vista       35
                       Avenue
El Dorado Court        El Dorado Drive to southern terminus 25
El Dorado Drive        Keats Avenue to Warren Vista Avenue  35
Emerson Avenue         Joshua Lane to Joshua Drive          40
Grand Avenue           Joshua Drive to Kismet Road          35
Grand Avenue           Mountain View Trail to Joshua Drive  35
Grand Avenue           Onaga Trail to Kismet Road           35
Hanford Avenue         Balsa Avenue to Yucca Trail          25
Hanford Avenue         SR62 to Yucca Trail                  25
Hopi Trail             Santa Fe Trail to Onaga Trail        35
Joshua Court           Joshua Drive to southern terminus    25
Joshua Drive           Acoma Trail to Palm Avenue           45
Joshua Drive           Palm Avenue to Joshua Lane           45
Joshua Drive           Palomar Avenue to western terminus   35
Joshua Drive           West end to Palomar Avenue           40
Joshua Drive (east)    Balsa Avenue to Joshua Lane          35
Joshua Lane            Joshua Drive to San Marino           50
Joshua Lane            Joshua Drive to Warren Vista Avenue  50
Joshua Lane            North of Pueblo Trail to Onaga Trail 40
Joshua Lane            Onaga Trail to Joshua Drive          45
Joshua Lane            Pueblo Trail to Onaga Trail          40
Joshua Lane            SR62 to 660 feet north of Pueblo     35
Joshua Lane            SR62 to Yucca Trail                  35
Joshua Lane            San Andreas to San Marino            50
Joshua Lane            660 feet north of Pueblo to Joshua   40
                       Drive
Joshua Lane            Warren Vista Avenue to San Andreas   50
Joshua Lane            Yucca Trail to Pueblo Trail          40
Juarez Drive           Palomar Avenue to Joshua Lane        40
Keats Avenue           Desert Gold Drive to El Dorado Drive 25
Kickapoo Trail         SR62 to Onaga Trail                  40
Lisbon Drive           Palomar Avenue to Joshua Lane        35
Onaga Trail            Acoma Trail to Fox Trail             40
Onaga Trail            Alaba Avenue to Palomar Avenue       40
Onaga Trail            Amador Avenue to Acoma Trail         40
Onaga Trail            Amador Avenue to Elata Avenue        35
Onaga Trail            Amador Avenue to Sage Avenue         40
Onaga Trail            Elata Avenue to Warren Vista Avenue  40
Onaga Trail            Fox Trail to Amador Avenue           40
Onaga Trail            Inca Trail to Joshua Lane            40
Onaga Trail            Joshua Lane to Hanford Avenue        40
Onaga Trail            Joshua Lane to Warren Vista Avenue   45
Onaga Trail            Kickapoo Trail to Fox Trail          40
Onaga Trail            Kickapoo Trail to Inca Trail         40
Onaga Trail            Sage Avenue to Joshua Lane           40
Onaga Trail            Warren Vista Avenue to Alaba Avenue  45
Onaga Trail            Warren Vista Avenue to Palomar       45
                       Avenue
Palomar Avenue         Joshua Drive to Joshua Lane          50
Palomar Avenue         Yucca Trail to Joshua Drive          50
Paxton Road            SR247 to Avalon Avenue               40
Pioneertown Road       Buena Vista Drive to north Town      50
                       limit
Pioneertown Road       Coyote Trail to northern Town limits 55
Pioneertown Road       SR62 to Coyote Trail                 30
Pioneertown Road       SR62 to Yucca Trail                  25
Pioneertown Road       Yucca Trail to Buena Vista Drive     50
Sage Avenue            Joshua Drive to Onaga Trail          40
Sage Avenue            Onaga Trail to SR62/Yucca Trail      40
Sage Avenue            SR62 to Onaga Trail                  40
Sage Avenue            SR62 to Sunnyslope Drive             35
Santa Fe Trail         Deer Trail to Apache Trail           35
Santa Fe Trail         Inca Trail to Deer Trail             35
Santa Fe Trail         Kickapoo Trail to Apache Trail       35
Santa Fe Trail         Kickapoo Trail to Inca Trail         35
Sunnyslope Drive       SR247 to Mohawk Trail                45
Sunnyslope Drive       SR247 to Sage Avenue                 45
Sunnyslope Drive       Sage Avenue to Mohawk Trail          45
Warren Vista           Yucca Trail to Onaga Trail           45
Warren Vista Avenue    Joshua Drive to northern terminus    35
Warren Vista Avenue    Joshua Drive to San Andreas Road     40
Warren Vista Avenue    Northern terminus to Joshua Lane     35
Yucca Mesa Road        SR62 to northern Town limits         55
Yucca Trail            Airway Avenue to Joshua Lane         40
Yucca Trail            Airway Avenue to Palomar Avenue      50
Yucca Trail            Joshua Lane to Sage Avenue           40
Yucca Trail            Palomar Avenue to La Contenta Road   55
Yucca Trail            SR62 (Remembrance Park) to Kickapoo  40
Yucca Trail            SR62 (Remembrance Park) to SR62      40
                       (park-n-ride)
Yucca Trail            Sage Avenue to Airway Avenue         35
 
(Ord. 27, 11-18-1992; amd. Ord. 30, 12-17-1992; Ord. 33, 1-21-1993; Ord. 48, 2-
17-1994; Ord. 52, 7-25-1994; Ord. 72, 4-18-1996; Ord. 78, 10-17-1996; Ord. 81,
4-3-1997; Ord. 83, 8-7-1997; Ord. 84, 11-20-1997; Ord. 107, 6-3-1999; Ord. 143,
7-24-2003; Ord. 147, 9-18-2003; Ord. 159, 10-21-2004; Ord. 184, 12-13-2007;
Ord. 213, 5-18-2010; Ord. 230, 9-6-2011; Ord. 249, 5-6-2014; Ord. 258, 6-21-
2016; Ord. 259, 8-16-2016; Ord. 279, 7-3-2018)
CHAPTER 12.30
TRUCK ROUTES
SECTION:
12.30.010: Purpose And Intent
12.30.020: Definitions
12.30.030: Trucks Prohibited On Restricted Streets
12.30.040: Through Truck Routes Established
12.30.050: Weigh In
12.30.060: Exceptions
12.30.070: Penalties
12.30.010: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The Town Council hereby finds that the operation of heavy commercial vehicles
on the streets and roads of residential neighborhoods creates traffic,
pedestrian and safety hazards as well as excessive damage to the streets and
roads of said neighborhoods.
The purpose and intent of the Town Council through the adoption of this Chapter
is to protect the streets and roads of said residential neighborhoods while
providing appropriate truck routes for heavy commercial vehicles. (Ord. 69, 5-
2-1996)
12.30.020: DEFINITIONS:
COMMERCIAL VEHICLE: A vehicle of a type required to be registered by the
California Vehicle Code used or maintained for the transportation of persons
for hire, compensation or profit or designed, used or maintained primarily for
the transportation of property. A van pool vehicle is not a commercial vehicle
for purposes of this Chapter.
RESTRICTED STREETS AND ROADS: All streets and roads in the Town except truck
routes as herein established. (Ord. 69, 5-2-1996)
12.30.030: TRUCKS PROHIBITED ON RESTRICTED STREETS:
It shall be unlawful to operate any commercial vehicle exceeding a maximum
gross weight limit of ten thousand (10,000) pounds on any street or road within
the Town except for those truck routes established pursuant to this Chapter.
Whenever a street or road has been established as a truck route pursuant to
this Chapter, the Traffic Engineer shall erect appropriate signs designating
the affected street or road thereof. Such signs shall read "Truck Route" and
conform to the State of California Department of Transportation Standard
Specification 56, and shall be erected at all truck route entrances to the
Town, at all intersections of truck routes within the Town, and at such other
places as the Traffic Engineer may deem necessary for the proper enforcement of
this Chapter. (Ord. 69, 5-2-1996)
12.30.040: THROUGH TRUCK ROUTES ESTABLISHED:
The following streets and portions of streets are designated and established as
truck routes. The Town, by this Chapter, does not intend to regulate or to
attempt to regulate traffic on any Federal or State highway:
Airway Avenue from State Highway 62 to Yucca Trail
Airway Drive from Aviation Drive to State Highway 62
Aviation Drive from State Highway 247 to Airway Avenue
Balsa Avenue from State Highway 62 to Sunnyslope Drive
Buena Vista Drive from State Highway 247 to Yucca Mesa Road
Hilton Avenue from State Highway 62 to Sunnyslope Drive
Hopi Trail from State Highway 62 to Yucca Trail
Inca Trail from State Highway 62 to Benecia Trail
Indio Avenue from Yucca Trail to Sunnyslope Drive
La Contenta Road from Yucca Trail to State Highway 62 except between the hours
of 7:00 A.M. - 9:00 A.M. and 2:00 P.M. - 4:00 P.M. Monday through Friday,
inclusive
Pioneertown Road from State Highway 62 to Yucca Trail
Yucca Mesa Road from State Highway 62 to Buena Vista Drive
Yucca Trail from Inca Trail to Pioneer Town Road
Yucca Trail from La Contenta Road to Indio Avenue (Ord. 69, 5-2-1996)
12.30.050: WEIGH IN:
Any peace officer shall have the authority to require any person driving or in
control of any commercial vehicle not proceeding over a truck route to proceed
to any public or private scale available for the purpose of weighing and
determining whether the commercial vehicle is in compliance with this Chapter.
(Ord. 69, 5-2-1996)
12.30.060: EXCEPTIONS:
The provisions of this Chapter do not apply to the following vehicles:
   A.   Commercial vehicles when making pickups or deliveries of goods, wares
or merchandise from or to any building or structure located on such restricted
streets or for the purpose of delivering materials to be used in the actual and
bona fide repair, alteration, remodeling or construction of any building or
structure upon such restricted streets for which a building permit has
previously been obtained therefor.
   B.   Passenger buses under the jurisdiction of the Public Utilities
Commission or school buses.
   C.   Any vehicle used for the removal of refuse under contract with the
Town.
   D.   Any authorized emergency vehicle.
   E.   Any vehicle owned by a public utility or a licensed contractor while
necessarily in use in the construction, installation or repair of any public
utility. (Ord. 69, 5-2-1996)
12.30.070: PENALTIES:
   A.   State Statute: Any person violating any of the provisions of this
Chapter or disobeying any signs or markings installed pursuant thereto shall be
guilty of an infraction. Pursuant to the California Vehicle Code, every person
convicted of an infraction for a violation of the provisions of this Chapter
shall be punished by a fine based upon excess weight in accordance with
California Vehicle Code section 42030. (Ord. 69, 5-2-1996)
   B.   Administrative Citation: Notwithstanding the foregoing, any violation
of any of the provisions of this Chapter may be, but is not required to be,
prosecuted as an administrative citation procedure, pursuant to
 Chapter 1.04 of this Code. (Ord. 97, 11-5-1998)
CHAPTER 12.40
PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
12.40.010: Parking For Certain Purposes Prohibited
12.40.010: PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES PROHIBITED:
   A.   "Vehicle" as used in this section means a device by which any person or
property may be propelled, moved or drawn upon a highway, excepting a device
moved exclusively by human power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or
tracks. This shall include, without limitation, any automobile, truck, trailer,
motorcycle, semitrailer, moped, camper, commercial or recreational vehicles.
"Vehicle" as used herein shall also mean to include, without limitation, boats
of any kind, camper shells, and any portable commercial or recreational
equipment which is attached to, transported by or capable of being transported,
upon a highway by another vehicle.
   B.   No person shall park a vehicle upon any highway or right of way for the
principal purpose of:
      1.   Displaying such vehicle for sale.
      2.   Washing, greasing, repairing such vehicle except repairs
necessitated by an emergency.
      3.   Vending, except adjacent to the premises of the purchaser when
taking orders or delivering any commodity.
California Vehicle Code section 22651.9 is specifically applicable to this
subsection. All town highways and public lands are subject to Vehicle Code
section 22651.9.
   C.   The town council of Yucca Valley finds that parking of vehicles for
sale on private property adjacent to State Route 62, State Route 247, Yucca
Trail and major intersections within the town creates conditions promoting
"visual" blight and deterioration and a traffic hazard. Therefore, no person
shall park or permit the parking of a vehicle for sale unless the private
property site and vehicle owner are approved for vehicle sales by the town of
Yucca Valley and the state of California department of motor vehicles, and the
site is on file with the California state board of equalization as a point of
motor vehicle sales.
      1.   Applicability: This subsection is applicable to the following areas
as illustrated on the diagram attached as exhibit A to the ordinance codified
herein and further described below:
         a.   Properties located within three hundred feet (300') of State
Route 62 and State Route 247 as measured from the centerlines.
         b.   Properties located within three hundred feet (300') from the
centerline of Yucca Trail between the intersections of Sage and Airway.
         c.   Properties located within five hundred feet (500') from the
center point of the following intersections:
            (1)   State Route 62 and State Route 247;
            (2)   Buena Vista and State Route 247;
            (3)   Yucca Mesa and State Route 62;
            (4)   Joshua Lane and State Routes 62 and 247;
            (5)   Sage and State Route 62;
            (6)   Yucca Trail and State Route 62;
            (7)   Yucca Trail and Sage and State Route 62;
            (8)   Yucca Trail and Sage;
            (9)   Yucca Trail and Joshua Lane;
            (10)   Airway and State Route 62;
            (11)   Dumosa and State Route 62;
            (12)   Crestview and State Route 247.
      2.   Exceptions: Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary, a
property owner or tenant in lawful possession thereof or employee of same may
park a vehicle for sale on his or her private property, provided that at all
times the vehicle is parked and offered for sale on the property under the
following conditions:
         a.   The owner or tenant or employee of same is actually occupying
said property as his or her residence or primary place of business.
         b.   The owner or tenant is operating a vehicle repair business which
is authorized to sell vehicles under Civil Code section 3067 et seq. (liens on
vehicles). (Ord. 204, 9-1-2009)
CHAPTER 12.50
ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION
SECTION:
12.50.010: Administrative Adjudication Procedure
12.50.020: Administrative Review
12.50.030: Administrative Hearing
12.50.040: Judicial Review
12.50.050: Copies Of Citations
12.50.010: ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION PROCEDURE:
   A.   Purpose: The Yucca Valley town council has duly adopted the procedures
of this chapter on parking violation enforcement proceedings under the
authority of, and for the purpose of implementing the requirements of chapter
1244, statutes of 1992 ("AB 408"), and chapter 734, statutes of 1995 ("AB
1228"). The purpose of the procedures specified herein is to provide a fair and
thorough process for review of citations issued for parking or standing
violations within the town.
   B.   Application Of Time Limitations: Within this chapter there are various
time limitations established for certain requests, including, but not limited
to:
      1.   Requests for administrative review;
      2.   Requests for administrative hearings; and
      3.   Requests for copies of documents.
For purposes of this chapter on parking violation enforcement procedures, the
specified time limitations are jurisdictional. Untimely requests will be
rejected. Waivers will not be issued.
   C.   Summary Of Procedures: This chapter on parking violation enforcement
procedures provides two (2) stages of review for persons or entities wishing to
contest citations:
      1.   Administrative review; and
      2.   Administrative hearing.
   D.   Definitions: The following definitions pertain to terms utilized in
this chapter, regarding administrative adjudication procedures, in order to
provide clarity and consistency:
ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING: A hearing process with respect to a citation, conducted
in accord with the procedures of this chapter on parking violation enforcement
procedures, initiated by a timely written request of a contestant dissatisfied
with the results of the administrative review.
ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW: The initial citation review process, initiated by a
contestant's timely request, and conducted by the reviewing official.
APPEAL: The action taken by a contestant to request an administrative hearing.
CITATION: Includes, but is not limited to, notice of a stopping, standing, or
parking violation, and notice of a delinquent violation.
CONTESTANT: Any person or entity who is the registered owner, driver, rentee,
bailee or lessee who is liable for parking penalties in accordance with the
provisions of section 40200 et seq., of the California Vehicle Code, and who
contests or disputes liability for the parking penalties.
DMV: The state department of motor vehicles.
HEARING OFFICIAL: An independent and impartial hearing officer meeting the
qualifications specified in section 40215(c)(4) of the California Vehicle Code,
appointed by or contracted with the town or its agent to conduct administrative
hearings.
ISSUING AGENCY: The town department, or its agent, including, but not limited
to, the California highway patrol, which issues the parking citation.
PARKING PENALTY: Includes the applicable civil penalty for the violation
specified on the citation, the late payment penalty, and the department of
motor vehicles (DMV) lien fee, if applicable.
PARKING VIOLATION: Any violation of any regulation governing the stopping,
standing or parking of a vehicle under the Vehicle Code, under any federal or
state statute or regulation, or under this code.
REVIEWING OFFICIAL: An enforcement official authorized by the chief of police
to conduct administrative reviews. (Ord. 222, 2-15-2011)
12.50.020: ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW:
   A.   Initiating Administrative Review:
      1.   Timeliness: A request for administrative review must be made within
twenty one (21) days from the issuance of the notice of parking violation, or
within twenty one (21) days from the mailing of the notice of delinquent
parking violation.
      2.   Manner Of Making Request: The request for administrative review
shall be made by written request, and must include the following:
         a.   A written statement of reasons explaining why the contestant
believes the citation was issued in error;
         b.   Copies of any documents supporting contestant's claim;
         c.   Original citation or reminder notice;
         d.   Contestant's full name; and
         e.   Contestant's mailing address.
   B.   Written Statement Of Reason: A contestant shall provide to Yucca Valley
code compliance a written statement of the reasons for contesting the parking
violation. If the statement of reasons is not timely provided by the
contestant, within the time period specified in subsection A1 of this section,
the request for administrative review will be rejected, and the contestant
shall have no further rights to administrative review, or to an administrative
hearing.
   C.   Administrative Review: Upon the reviewing official's receipt of a
timely request for administrative review and the required statement of reasons,
the reviewing official will commence a review of the citation and the
circumstances surrounding its issuance. The review shall consist of a
determination of whether the citation contains all of the items required by
section 40202(a) of the California Vehicle Code and shall focus on the reasons
for the request as specified by the contestant.
      1.   Cancellation Of Citation: If, based on the results of the review,
the reviewing official is satisfied that the citation was not issued in
accordance with section 40202(a) of the California Vehicle Code, or, based on
the contestant's statement of reasons, that the violation did not occur or the
registered owner was not responsible for the violation, the reviewing official
shall cancel the citation and shall specify in writing the reasons for
canceling the citation.
      2.   Determination Of Validity: If, based on the results of the
investigation, the reviewing official is satisfied that the citation was issued
in accordance with section 40202(a) of the California Vehicle Code, and that
the reasons specified by the contestant do not exist, or do not affect the
validity of the citation, the reviewing official shall specify those findings
in writing, and include the grounds for the findings.
   D.   Notification To Contestant: The results of the administrative review by
the reviewing official will be mailed to the contestant, by first class mail.
Service of the notice of result shall be complete upon placement of the notice
of result in the United States mail, postage paid. (Ord. 222, 2-15-2011)
12.50.030: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING:
   A.   Initiating Appeal:
      1.   Timeliness: A contestant dissatisfied with the results of the
administrative review may appeal. Any such appeal must be made within twenty
one (21) days of mailing the results of the review.
      2.   Requirements For Appeals: The contestant's appeal shall be initiated
by means of a written request, filed by the contestant with Yucca Valley code
compliance within the time specified in subsection A1 of this section. Any
appeal shall comply with the following requirements:
         a.   The contestant shall deposit with the town of Yucca Valley, to
the address shown on the notice issued by the reviewing official the full
amount of the parking penalty.
         b.   The contestant's appeal request shall indicate the contestant's
preference for a hearing by mail or in person.
         c.   The contestant shall specify in writing the reasons for
contesting the citation.
         d.   The contestant shall provide a copy of the citation or the notice
issued by the reviewing official per subsection
12.50.020A2b of this chapter.
         e.   If different than the record address contained in the parking
citation or Yucca Valley code compliance's records, the contestant shall
provide the address of the contestant for purposes of mailing notices of
hearing and other documents in connection with the appeal.
         f.   In the event that the contestant fails to satisfy any one or more
of the above requirements within the time specified in subsection A1 of this
section, the appeal shall be rejected as untimely filed.
      3.   Exceptions To Parking Penalty Deposit Requirement:
         a.   Indigence: Pursuant to section 40215(b) of the California Vehicle
Code, Yucca Valley code compliance or its agent shall provide a written
procedure to allow a person to request an administrative hearing without
payment of the parking penalty upon satisfactory proof of an inability to pay
the amount due. Notice of this procedure shall be provided to all persons
requesting an administrative hearing.
   B.   Notice Of Hearing: Within twenty one (21) days from the filing with
Yucca Valley code compliance of a contestant's timely appeal, Yucca Valley code
compliance or its agent shall send a notice of hearing to the contestant via
first class mail. The notice shall specify the date and time of the hearing,
and the place where the hearing will occur. An administrative hearing shall be
held within ninety (90) calendar days following the receipt of a request for an
administrative hearing, excluding time tolled pursuant to section 40200 et
seq., of the California Vehicle Code or this chapter.
   C.   Continuances:
      1.   Request Made Prior To Date Of Hearing: A contestant may, in writing,
until twenty four (24) hours before the scheduled administrative hearing time,
request that Yucca Valley code compliance reschedule the administrative
hearing. Yucca Valley code compliance shall grant one continuance not to exceed
twenty one (21) calendar days in accord with section 40215(b) of the California
Vehicle Code.
   D.   Administrative Hearing Procedures:
      1.   Procedural Matters:
         a.   Appearances: The officer issuing the citation shall not be
required to appear at the hearing. The contestant shall appear at the hearing,
unless a hearing by mail has been designated by the contestant in the appeal
request form. If the contestant does not appear at the hearing, the appeal
shall be decided by the hearing official based on the citation, the record of
the administrative review, and any other relevant material in the record,
taking into account the reasons specified by the contestant on the appeal
request form. Appearances by minors shall be governed by the provisions of
section 40215(c)(2) of the California Vehicle Code.
         b.   Hearing Officials: The hearing shall be conducted by an
independent and impartial hearing official meeting the qualifications specified
in section 40215(c)(4) of the California Vehicle Code, who shall have been
appointed by, or contracted with, the town to act in that capacity, pursuant to
the procedures specified in section 40215(c)(4) of the California Vehicle Code.
         c.   Hearing Record: The hearing official shall write pertinent
information into the record during the in person hearing. The hearing record
and any supporting documentation will remain with the case file at the town. If
the contestant appeals the hearing official's decision to the court, the entire
case file will be forwarded to the court. The hearing records for those cases
not appealed to the court will be retained by the town for one year.
         d.   Representation: The contestant may, in his or her discretion, be
represented by an attorney in the appeal process, at the administrative
hearing. Any such representation shall be at the sole and exclusive cost of the
contestant. No contestant shall be entitled to representation at the expense of
the town, or any other public agency, irrespective of indigence status.
      2.   Conduct Of The Administrative Hearing:
         a.   Hearing Official Duties: At the time of the administrative
hearing, the hearing official shall:
            (1)   Make a prehearing statement, briefly explaining the nature of
the civil proceedings, the manner of conducting the hearing and the limits on
the introduction of evidence, the process of rendering a decision, the effects
of the decision in terms of collection remedies available to Yucca Valley code
compliance, the right of the contestant to appeal to the court for a de novo
hearing, and any other matters in the hearing official's discretion;
            (2)   Read the citation into the record;
            (3)   Administer an oath to the contestant and any prospective
witnesses;
            (4)   Record the name and address of the contestant; and
            (5)   Write the registered owner's name and address; and the
contestant's relationship to the registered owner, if applicable.
         b.   Proof Requirements; Validity Of Citation:
            (1)   Burden Of Proof: The issuing agency bears the burden of
proof, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the citation meets statutory
requirements for validity.
            (2)   Prima Facie Case: Where the citation, or copy thereof,
contains all of the items specified in section 40202(a) of the California
Vehicle Code, the issuing agency shall not be required to produce any evidence
other than the notice of the parking violation or copy thereof and information
received from the department of motor vehicles identifying the registered owner
of the vehicle. The documentation in proper form shall be prima facie evidence
of the violation.
            (3)   Rebuttal: The contestant may introduce relevant evidence
relating to the validity of the citation.
         c.   Proof Requirements; Contestant Defenses:
            (1)   Burden Of Proof; Defenses: The contestant bears the burden of
proof, by the preponderance of the evidence, that although the citation is
facially valid, a viable defense exists which would preclude the contestant's
liability for the parking penalty, or that a viable defense exists which would
limit the contestant's liability for late payment penalties.
            (2)   Defense; Late Payment Penalties: Nonreceipt of the notice of
violation itself, if based on sufficient evidence, may constitute a defense to
the late payment penalties based on nonpayment of the notice of violation,
however, is not a defense to late response to the notice of delinquent parking
violation. The defense of nonreceipt of the notice of violation is not
available to the registered vehicle owner, where the person operating the
vehicle at the time of the citation was not the registered vehicle owner. Clear
proof of timely payment of the citation is a defense to late payment penalties.
            (3)   Defense; Merits Of Citation: Defenses relating to the merits
of the citation must be established by the contestant by sufficient evidence.
Such defenses may include, but are not limited to:
               (A)   Signage matters (missing, obscured or defaced signs);
               (B)   Impossibility of knowledge of the applicable parking
restrictions (where the contestant demonstrates that it was impossible for him
or her to become aware of the applicable parking restrictions);
               (C)   Malfunctioning parking meters;
               (D)   Recent loss of parking permit or placard;
               (E)   Mechanical breakdown of the vehicle (where the vehicle was
not illegally parked prior to the breakdown, the violation in fact results from
the breakdown and reasonable steps were taken to remove the vehicle prior to
the occurrence of the violation).
            (4)   Unjustifiable Defenses; Failure To List Defenses: Personal
reasons, inconveniences, lack of funds, forgetfulness, failure to observe
signs, lack of available parking elsewhere, lack of knowledge of the applicable
restrictions, and similar or related matters are not under any circumstances a
defense to liability for the parking penalties. Failure to list a defense in
the statement of reasons contained in the contestant's appeal request precludes
the contestant from utilizing that defense at the time of the appeal hearing.
         d.   Evidence:
            (1)   Rules Of Evidence: The rules of evidence for civil court
procedures shall not apply in administrative hearings conducted pursuant to the
procedure. Evidence relevant to the issues raised by the contestant's statement
of reasons, and to the validity of the citation itself under section 40202 of
the California Vehicle Code, will be received. Weight and reliability of the
evidence provided will be determined by the hearing officer.
            (2)   Form Of Evidence: Other than the citation and the DMV
information, the hearing official shall receive into the record the reviewing
official's record from the administrative review, together with relevant
testimony, documentation and other material which is submitted by either party.
Weight and reliability determinations shall be made by the hearing official.
The hearing official may, but is not required to, admit evidence in the form of
declarations of witnesses, submitted by the contestant. Such declarations shall
not be admitted unless presented in the form required for declarations under
section 2015.5 of the California Code Of Civil Procedure, and shall contain the
statements required by sections 2015.5(a) and 2015.5(b) of the California Code
Of Civil Procedure.
         e.   Witnesses:
            (1)   Witness Testimony: The contestant may present witness
testimony as evidence at the discretion of the hearing official. The hearing
official, after conducting the initial procedures of the hearing, may exclude
witnesses until their turn to testify. The hearing official may limit the
number of witnesses to prevent repetitive testimony in the interest of
efficiency.
            (2)   Cross Examination By Hearing Official: The hearing official
may conduct such cross examination of the contestant or any witness presented
at his or her discretion.
      3.   Determination Of Appeal:
         a.   Basis For Determination: The hearing official shall make a
written decision on liability for the parking penalties based on the testimony
and other evidence in the record.
         b.   Disposition: The hearing official shall enter the disposition and
the total amount of parking penalties on the hearing record. The decision,
including the rationale thereof, shall be placed in written form.
         c.   Delivery Of Decision To Contestant: Although the hearing
official's decision may be personally delivered to the contestant following the
completion of the hearing, the written decision shall be sent to the
contestant, to the address listed on the contestant's appeal form, via first
class mail.
         d.   Deferred Payment: Following a determination by the hearing
official that a person has committed the violation, the hearing official may in
his or her discretion, allow for deferred payment of the parking penalty, if
the person provides evidence satisfactory to the hearing official, of an
inability to pay the parking penalty in full.
         e.   Finality: The hearing official's decision shall be the final
decision of Yucca Valley code compliance. The decision shall set forth the time
limits for the contestant to file for judicial review in the court, and a
notice that if no such review is sought within the applicable time limitations,
the decision shall be final for all purposes. (Ord. 222, 2-15-2011)
12.50.040: JUDICIAL REVIEW:
Within thirty (30) days after the mailing or personal delivery of the final
decision described in subsection
12.50.030D3e of this chapter, the contestant may seek review by filing an
appeal with the court. Such review will be conducted in accordance with the
provisions of section 40230 of the California Vehicle Code. (Ord. 222, 2-15-
2011)
12.50.050: COPIES OF CITATIONS:
Upon request by mail or in person, Yucca Valley code compliance will provide a
copy of a citation to any person who has received a notice of delinquent
parking violation, or to his or her agent. The copy will be provided within
fifteen (15) days of the request, upon payment of the fee established by Yucca
Valley code compliance. The copy can be produced by any reasonable means
available to Yucca Valley code compliance, including printed representation of
computer information. (Ord. 222, 2-15-2011)
CHAPTER 12.60
ENCROACHMENTS AND EXCAVATIONS
SECTION:
12.60.010: Purpose And Intent
12.60.020: Definitions Of Words And Phrases
12.60.030: Permit Required
12.60.040: Permit Application
12.60.050: Permit Fees And General Deposits
12.60.060: Work Requirements
12.60.070: Permittee's Liability And Insurance
12.60.080: License Required
12.60.090: Cash Deposit; Surety Required When, And Deductions
12.60.100: Default Of Permittee
12.60.110: Beginning Of Work Or Use
12.60.120: Notice Of Commencement Of Work
12.60.130: Prompt Completion Of Work Required
12.60.140: Permit Refusal Or Revocation
12.60.150: Protection Measures; Routing Of Traffic
12.60.160: Location Of Utilities
12.60.170: Clearance For Vital Structures Required
12.60.180: Facilities; Protection And Relocation Requirements
12.60.190: Facilities Abandonment; Requirements
12.60.200: Excavated Material; Disposal Requirements
12.60.210: Site Maintenance
12.60.220: Protection Of Watercourses Required
12.60.230: Cutting Of Pavement, Sidewalk, Curb, Gutter And Cross Gutter
12.60.240: Utility Lines And Conductor Casings Requirements
12.60.250: Substructures; Depth Requirements
12.60.260: Backfilling Requirements
12.60.270: Excavation Repair Requirements
12.60.280: Site Restoration Requirements
12.60.290: Open Trench; Maximum
12.60.300: Urgent Work
12.60.310: Emergency Action
12.60.320: Noise, Dust And Debris
12.60.330: Preservation Of Monuments
12.60.340: Inspections
12.60.350: Nonpermitted Equipment
12.60.360: Stop Work And/Or Cancellation Of Permit
12.60.370: Violation Of Permit
12.60.380: Mailboxes
12.60.390: Drop Boxes And Publication Stands
12.60.400: Public Nuisance
12.60.410: Defective Work And Materials
12.60.420: Encroachment Permit Handout
12.60.010: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose and intent of this chapter is to establish regulations that result
in the effective management of the public rights of way and public places for
the benefit of the public and the public health, safety and welfare. The
standards and procedures established in this chapter are adopted to promote and
protect public safety, to protect and preserve public property, to assure
quality control inspection and maintenance of public and private improvements
within public rights of way and public places, and for the general health,
safety and welfare of the public. (Ord. 260, 8-16-2016)
12.60.020: DEFINITIONS OF WORDS AND PHRASES:
The following words and phrases when used in this chapter shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them herein:
ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITY: As applied to this chapter shall mean the town
manager, deputy town manager, public works director, town engineer, or his
designated representative, unless otherwise specified in the various sections.
ENCROACHMENT: The entry upon, over, under or placing any facility upon, over or
under, along or across, or the use of any public place in such a manner as to
prevent, obstruct, or interfere temporarily or permanently with the normal use
of that public place, easement, sidewalk area, parkway or similar area under
the control of the town.
OBSTRUCTION: Any object, material, instrumentality or impediment in, upon,
along, across, under or over a street needed or useful for a limited period of
time in performing or doing work in, upon, along, across, under or over a
street or in or upon property in close proximity thereto whether the same
obstructs travel or not, provided a barricade, torch or light when placed upon,
along or across a street by any person placing personal property lawfully in,
upon, along, across, under or over such street to protect the public, such
property or any work done in connection therewith, or by an officer or employee
of the town in the course of his employment, shall not be considered an
obstruction within the meaning of the foregoing definition.
PARKWAY: That portion of the street right of way lying outside the curb line,
or edge of roadway, and the property line adjacent thereto, existing or
proposed, whether improved or unimproved. Parkway also includes any area within
a roadway or roadway easement that is not open to vehicular travel.
PERMITS (ENCROACHMENT): As applied to this chapter shall mean a form provided
by the town. The form will be twofold: it will be an application when filled
out by the permittee and a permit when approved by the administrative
authority.
PERMITTEE: The person to whom the encroachment permit is issued.
PERSON: Any person, association, individual, owner, lessee, tenant, occupant,
private company, firm, partnership, utility, special district, corporation,
governmental agency or organization of any kind.
PROTECTIVE MEASURES: Any barricades, traffic control devices, trench plates or
similar such devices intended to give warning and protect the public from
injury or loss resulting from the placement of an encroachment within the
public way.
PUBLIC PLACE: Any public or semipublic (private) street, alley, sidewalk,
parkway, sidewalk area, easement, square, plaza, park, mall, parking lot or any
other public or semipublic (private) property owned by, or under the control of
the town.
SIDEWALK: That portion of the sidewalk area that has been improved with a
concrete or asphaltic surface.
SIDEWALK OR SIDEWALK AREA: A portion of or all of a parkway that is unimproved
(no concrete or AC sidewalks), but is maintained for the exclusive use of
pedestrians.
STREETS: Any public street, lane, alley, court, easement, dedicated or offered
for dedication, right of way or other public place in the town, as they now
exist or may hereafter be established, or any portion thereof, including all or
any part of the entire width of the highway, right of way or easement, whether
or not such entire area is actually used for highway purposes, excepting any
easement or right of way vested for a specified entity, roadway, whether
improved or unimproved.
STREETS WITH NEWER PAVEMENT: Those constructed, recently reconstructed, or
repaved, with improvements having been completed and accepted by the
administrative authority within the previous sixty (60) months prior to the
date request for cutting or excavating.
STREETS WITH OLDER PAVEMENT: Those constructed, recently reconstructed, or
repaved, with improvements having been completed and accepted by the
administrative authority more than sixty (60) months prior to the date request
for cutting or excavating.
SURFACE UTILITY STRUCTURES: Utility structures located within the public right
of way at or above the existing or proposed grade, including, but not limited
to, electrical transformers, telephone and cable television pedestals, hand
holes, pull boxes, meter boxes, valve boxes and signal traffic controllers.
(Ord. 260, 8-16-2016)
12.60.030: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person shall construct, obstruct, reconstruct, remove, excavate or encroach
under, over, or on any sidewalk, curb, gutter, cross gutter, drainage facility,
street, parkway, easement, square, plaza, park, mall, parking lot or any other
public or semipublic (private) property or miscellaneous structures owned or
maintained by, or under the control of, the town, without first obtaining a
permit from the administrative authority. All work shall conform to permit
conditions and to this chapter.
The administrative authority may issue an annual blanket permit to utilities
for purposes of placing, replacing or repairing facilities within a public
place in an unimproved area or where the opening or excavation in a paved area
does not exceed two feet (2') in width and three feet (3') in length.
At the discretion of the administrative authority, a separate agreement, in
addition to the standard encroachment permit and its standards and conditions,
may be required for projects which encroach upon more than one mile in length
of streets, easements, or public places. (Ord. 260, 8-16-2016)
12.60.040: PERMIT APPLICATION:
The application for encroachment and excavation shall be in the form prescribed
by the administrative authority and shall provide the following minimum
information:
   A.   State the name, address, phone number and e-mail address of the
applicant.
   B.   State the name, address, telephone number and e-mail address of the
licensed contractor or entity, or the authorized representative, performing the
work on behalf of the permittee. The authorized representative performing the
work on behalf of the permittee shall provide twenty four (24) hour per day
contact information.
   C.   The purpose of the facility.
   D.   A fully dimensioned map, sketch, drawing or other illustration which
describes the location, size, depth and dimensions (where applicable) of the
encroachment, excavation, construction, installation or removal, to which the
application is submitted. The fully dimensioned map, sketch, drawing or other
illustration shall also identify right of way or easement width, paved street
width, centerline, and locations of any and all existing curbs, gutters,
sidewalks, cross gutters, drainage facilities and all improvements within the
town's controlled public place(s).
   E.   The approximate time when work will begin, and the approximate time
required to complete the work, including removing all obstructions, material
and debris, backfilling, compacting and placing permanent resurfacing and/or
replacing improvements, in compliance with this chapter and conditions applied
to the permit. The administrative authority may establish time frames or limits
for completion of any and all work under encroachment permits issued.
   F.   An agreement, signed by the permittee, that if the permit expires, is
revoked by the administrative authority, or is vacated or abandoned, the
permittee will, immediately and to the satisfaction of the administrative
authority, restore the public place, street, right of way, easement, parkway,
or other to the equivalent or better condition than it was on the date the
permit was issued.
   G.   A statement signed by the permittee that, as to any encroachment not
placed in a right of way, belonging to the permittee which is prior in time
and/or right to the town's right of way, if any encroachment permit which is
issued interferes with the subsequent improvement, grading or realignment of
the public way by the town or other town project, then the permittee and his
successors or assigns will at his own expense remove such encroachment or
relocate it at a location designed by the administrative authority.
   H.   A permit expiration date may be established by the administrative
authority. Additionally, the permittee shall give the administrative authority
forty eight (48) hours' advance notice when work will be started and for all
inspection requests. Similar notice shall be provided to the sheriff's
department and San Bernardino County fire department if required on the permit.
When work on any project ceases for any reason for a period of forty eight (48)
hours or more, permittee shall notify the administrative authority, the
sheriff's department, San Bernardino County fire department, and any other
emergency service provider as identified by the administrative authority, at
least forty eight (48) hours prior to recommencing such work. Work being
performed on weekends and holidays shall be made by written authorization from
the administrative authority.
   I.   Adjustments to any permit conditions may be granted by the
administrative authority for good and sufficient reasons. To protect the safety
and convenience of the public, the administrative authority may establish
special conditions on any permit issued.
   J.   A statement signed by the permittee that this chapter authorizes the
administrative authority with the right to stop work and/or revoke any permit
upon violation of this chapter or the permit conditions.
   K.   If the size and/or location of the encroachment is altered from the
application information, the applicant shall provide within five (5) working
days accurate "as built" information to update the original application.
   L.   When approved and signed by the administrative authority, the
application, and all assigned and attached conditions and provisions, shall
constitute a permit. Whenever unexpected significant changes or modifications
are made to existing facilities, the permittee shall secure written approval
from the owner of the facility and an addendum to the original encroachment
permit from the administrative authority. (Ord. 260, 8-16-2016)
12.60.050: PERMIT FEES AND GENERAL DEPOSITS:
The administrative authority shall collect a permit fee to cover the cost
incurred by the town pursuant to the provisions of this chapter. Recoverable
costs include administrative expenses involved in the issuance of an
encroachment permit, checking plans for compliance with this chapter and other
ordinances, and field inspections conducted to ensure compliance with this
chapter and the terms and conditions under which the encroachment permit was
issued, including costs for any necessary enforcement actions. Fee schedules
may be established and amended from time to time by resolution of the town
council. Encroachments subject to full cost recovery as set forth by resolution
of the town council shall make a general deposit, in the amount established by
town council resolution(s), to be sufficient to pay the costs of the permit,
engineering and inspection fees. The general deposit is in addition to any
security deposits that may be required under this chapter. (Ord. 260, 8-16-
2016)
12.60.060: WORK REQUIREMENTS:
All encroachment work shall be performed in accordance with either "Town
Standards And Specifications" or the "Standard Specifications For Public Works
Construction" (greenbook), and at certain times, pursuant to the "Caltrans
Manual", or according to the plans and specifications referred to in the permit
and, in addition to any special requirements and/or specifications, and
conditions, which may be made a part of the permit. (Ord. 260, 8-16-2016)
12.60.070: PERMITTEE'S LIABILITY AND INSURANCE:
   A.   As a requirement of all permits issued under this chapter, an
agreement, signed by the permittee, shall agree, in consideration of the
granting of this permit, the applicant(s) or permittee(s) and any contractors
or subcontractors working on its behalf shall agree to defend, indemnify and
hold harmless the town, its agents, officers and employees, at his sole
expense, against any action, claim or proceedings and all loss, damage, claim,
demand, suit, cost, expense, obligation or liability, whatsoever, including
reasonable attorney fees, brought against the town or its agents, officers or
employees, elected and appointed boards, to attack, set aside, void, or annul
this approval or because of the issuance of such approval of the encroachment
permit, and/or the installation, construction, maintenance, use or operation of
the work contemplated in the application for the encroachment permit, or which
arises out of or is any way connected with the performance of any work under
the permit, regardless of whether the indemnitees reviewed and approved any
plans or inspected any work or improvement, including the encroachment, and
regardless of whether such maintenance, repair, replacement, construction or
condition was affected or caused by the indemnitees, except as provided by law,
or in the alternative, to relinquish such approval. The applicant shall
reimburse the town, its agents, officers, or employees for any court costs, and
attorney fees which the town, its agents, officers or employees may be required
by a court to pay as a result of such action. The town may, at its sole
discretion, participate at its own expense in the defense of any such action
but such participation shall not relieve applicant(s) of his obligations under
this condition. The town shall promptly notify the applicant(s) of any claim,
action or proceedings arising from the town's approval of this project, and the
town shall cooperate in the defense. This agreement shall include all claims,
actions and proceedings brought for inverse condemnation.
   B.   As a requirement of all permits issued under this chapter, an
agreement, signed by the applicant(s) or permittee(s), agree(s), warrant(s),
and covenant(s) at its/their own cost and expense, to procure and maintain
during the construction of the project or improvement, and until all actions by
the town have been completed (such as final inspections and/or all conditions
required by said permit or license have been fully and completely complied with
relating to said activity, project, or improvement). Applicant(s) shall
maintain commercial general liability insurance no less broad than insurance
services office (IS) form CG 00 01 with minimum limits of one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) per occurrence; two million dollars ($2,000,000.00) general
aggregate; two million dollars ($2,000,000.00) products/completed operations
aggregate. If applicant(s) maintains higher limits than the specified minimum
limits, town requires and shall be entitled to coverage for the higher limits
maintained by applicant(s). The town shall be endorsed (ISO form CG 20 12 or 20
26 or their equivalents) as an additional insured for liability arising out of
operations performed by or on behalf of the applicant(s) for which a permit has
been issued. The insurance provided shall be primary to, and noncontributory
with any insurance or self-insurance maintained by the town. The policy shall
cover interinsured suits and include a separation of insureds or severability
clause. Applicant(s) shall maintain automobile liability insurance with minimum
limits of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) combined single limit per
accident. Coverage shall apply to all owned, hired and nonowned vehicles.
Applicant(s) shall maintain workers' compensation and employers' liability
insurance with statutory limits as required by the Labor Code of the state of
California. Employers liability limits of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00)
per accident, one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) disease per employee, one
million dollars ($1,000,000.00) disease per policy. All required insurance must
all be submitted with the application. The town risk manager may waive the
requirement for insurance when it is reasonable and appropriate to do so. (Ord.
260, 8-16-2016)
12.60.080: LICENSE REQUIRED:
Excepting for work by regular full time employees of the United States, or the
state of California, and those regular employees of utility companies, special
districts, and county of San Bernardino personnel, all work done within the
right of way of the town shall be performed by contractor(s) licensed by the
state of California, working within the area of expertise authorized by their
license, and as required by the town. (Ord. 260, 8-16-2016)
12.60.090: CASH DEPOSIT; SURETY REQUIRED WHEN, AND DEDUCTIONS:
If required by the administrative authority, the permittee shall provide a cash
deposit, surety bond and/or other acceptable security in the amount determined
by the administrative authority as sufficient to reimburse the town for the
costs of restoring the public place to its original condition in the event the
permittee fails to do so.
   A.   Before any sums are withdrawn from the security deposit, the town shall
give written notice to the permittee:
      1.   Describing the act, default or failure to be remedied, or damages,
costs or expenses which the town incurred by reason of the permittee's act or
default;
      2.   Providing a reasonable opportunity for permittee to first remedy the
existing or ongoing default or failure if applicable;
      3.   That the permittee will be given an opportunity to review the act,
default, or failure described in the notice with the administrative authority.
   B.   If work is ongoing under the issued permit, and the permit is still
active, the permittee shall replenish the security deposit within fourteen (14)
days after written notice from the town that there is a deficiency in the
amount of the fund. (Ord. 260, 8-16-2016)
12.60.100: DEFAULT OF PERMITTEE:
By applying for and obtaining a permit pursuant to this chapter, the permittee
agrees that in the event the permittee fails to comply promptly with the terms
of the permit and perform and complete the work according to the plans, if any,
and the specifications referred to in this chapter, or fails to comply with any
other provisions of this chapter, the town may elect to perform and complete
all or part of the work. In the event the town elects to perform any work, the
permittee shall pay to the town upon demand of the administrative authority,
and prior to actual performance and completion of the work by the town or its
contractor, the costs of performing and completing all or part of the work
according to such permit, the plans, if any, and the specifications. The
administrative authority may prosecute the work either by the use of the town's
forces or by an independent contractor, whichever method the administrative
authority deems appropriate; and in the event the permittee fails to pay such
cost to the town upon demand, the town may bring an action in a court of
competent jurisdiction to recover such costs together with reasonable
administrative costs and attorney fees. (Ord. 260, 8-16-2016)
12.60.110: BEGINNING OF WORK OR USE:
The permittee shall begin the work or use authorized by a permit issued under
this chapter within fifteen (15) working days from the date of issuance, unless
a different period is stated in the permit. If the work or use is not begun
within fifteen (15) working days or within the time frame stated in the permit,
then the permit shall become void, unless before its expiration the time for
beginning has been extended in writing by the administrative authority. A
permit for temporary encroachments, as described by the administrative
authority, for continuing a use or maintaining a temporary encroachment
previously authorized, shall be valid for a term of sixty (60) days from date
of issuance, unless sooner terminated by discontinuance of the use, removal of
the encroachment, or termination of the permit by written order of the
administrative authority mailed thirty (30) days before the date of
termination. (Ord. 260, 8-16-2016)
12.60.120: NOTICE OF COMMENCEMENT OF WORK:
Permittee shall give notice to the administrative authority of the actual time
of commencement of any work at least forty eight (48) hours in advance. Similar
notice shall be given to the police department and fire department if required
on the permit. If the permittee is a utility company, the form and frequency of
notifications on work to be performed shall be as agreed upon in writing by the
administrative authority and the utility company. When work on any project
ceases for any reason for a period of forty eight (48) hours or more, excluding
weekends, permittee shall notify the administrative authority, the police
department, and fire department, when required, at least twenty four (24) hours
prior to recommencing such work. Work being performed on weekends and holidays,
that requires inspection, shall be by special arrangement. (Ord. 260, 8-16-
2016)
12.60.130: PROMPT COMPLETION OF WORK REQUIRED:
After a project is commenced, the permittee shall diligently pursue all work
covered by the encroachment permit, promptly complete all work and restore the
street as nearly as practicable to its original condition to avoid obstructing
the public place more than is reasonably necessary. It shall be the
administrative authority's authority to determine such timing. (Ord. 260, 8-16-
2016)
12.60.140: PERMIT REFUSAL OR REVOCATION:
   A.   Any application for an encroachment permit may be denied, and any
encroachment permit may be revoked, by written order of the administrative
authority, effective immediately, a copy of which shall be mailed to the
permittee at the address specified in the permit, upon any one or more of the
following grounds:
      1.   Violation of any of the provisions of this chapter;
      2.   Misrepresentations of any material fact in the application;
      3.   Violation of the terms or conditions of the permit;
      4.   Failure to post, or withdrawal of, the requested deposit.
   B.   Any encroachment permit may be revoked at any time, without cause, by
resolution of the town council after mailing a notice of intention to revoke
the permit to the permittee at the address specified in the permit at least ten
(10) days prior to the adoption of the resolution. (Ord. 260, 8-16-2016)
12.60.150: PROTECTION MEASURES; ROUTING OF TRAFFIC:
   A.   It is the duty of every person undertaking any construction, including
making an excavation in or upon any public place, to place and maintain
barriers and warning devices necessary for safety of the general public.
   B.   For excavations over five feet (5') in depth, blasting operations and
tunneling work, the permittee shall, when required by law, obtain a permit from
the California division of industrial safety and/or any other permit required
by state or federal safety regulations.
   C.   Barriers, warning signs, lights, and all other traffic control measures
shall conform to the requirements of the "Manual Of Warning Signs, Lights And
Devices For Use In Performance Of Work Upon Highways", issued by the state of
California, department of transportation, and to any additional requirements
specified by the administrative authority. Warning signs shall be placed as
prescribed in the manual, issued by the state of California, department of
transportation and the CAMUTCD.
   D.   The permittee shall take appropriate measures to ensure that during the
performance of construction work on streets, traffic conditions as nearly
normal as practicable shall be maintained at all times so as to minimize
inconvenience to the occupants of the adjoining property and to the general
public.
   E.   When traffic conditions permit, the administrative authority may, by
written approval, permit the closing of streets and alleys to all traffic for a
period of time prescribed by the administrative authority. The written approval
of the administrative authority may require that the permittee provide approved
detours and give notification to various public agencies and to the general
public. In such cases, the written approval shall not be valid until notice is
given. (Ord. 260, 8-16-2016)
12.60.160: LOCATION OF UTILITIES:
Underground utility lines to be installed in new or existing town streets shall
be located in a position approved by the administrative authority. (Ord. 260,
8-16-2016)
12.60.170: CLEARANCE FOR VITAL STRUCTURES REQUIRED:
The construction work shall be performed and conducted so as to not
unreasonably interfere with access to fire hydrants, fire stations, fire
escapes, water valves, underground vaults, valve housing structures, and all
other vital equipment designated by the administrative authority. (Ord. 260, 8-
16-2016)
12.60.180: FACILITIES; PROTECTION AND RELOCATION REQUIREMENTS:
Permittees shall inform themselves as to the existence and location of all
facilities likely to be encountered by their operations.
Unless the law otherwise provides, relocation of an existing facility shall be
performed in accordance with a plan approved by the owner. No facility owned by
the town shall be moved to accommodate the permittee unless the cost of such
work is borne by the permittee.
All facilities affected by any excavation or other construction work shall be
supported and protected by the permittee with methods approved by the owner of
the facility. Should an existing facility be damaged by the permittee's
operations, and for this purpose pipe coating or other encasement or devices
are to be considered as part of a facility, the permittee shall promptly notify
the owner of the damaged facility. All facilities damaged by the permittee's
operations shall be repaired as directed by the owner and the expense of such
repairs shall be charged to the permittee. (Ord. 260, 8-16-2016)
12.60.190: FACILITIES ABANDONMENT; REQUIREMENTS:
Whenever a substructure is abandoned, except the abandonment of service lines
designed to serve single properties, the person owning, using, controlling or
having an interest therein, shall file with the administrative authority a
drawing or written statement indicating, in detail, the location of the
substructure so abandoned. At the time of such abandonment, the administrative
authority may determine what portion, if any, of the abandoned substructure
shall be removed or otherwise treated.
Whenever a driveway approach is abandoned, or can no longer be justified by the
use made of the abutting property, the administrative authority may require
removal of any associated driveway, apron or curb depression and restoration of
any existing curb, gutter or sidewalk across the driveway width. (Ord. 260, 8-
16-2016)
12.60.200: EXCAVATED MATERIAL; DISPOSAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Where the confines of any area being excavated are too narrow to permit
piling of excavated material beside the trench, the administrative authority
may require the permittee to haul away the excavated material. The permittee
shall be responsible for securing any necessary disposal sites. In addition,
the permittee shall anticipate, and make provisions for abatement of dust and
dirt nuisances resulting from its operations.
   B.   Any necessary disposal sites may require the application for, and
issuance of, a grading plan and grading permit. Disposal sites are subject to
common and typically accepted industry standard grading practices, including
erosion and sediment control. All disposal sites or stockpiles are temporary as
issued under the controlling encroachment permit, and shall be removed to the
satisfaction of the administrative authority prior to final approval of the
encroachment permit. (Ord. 260, 8-16-2016)
12.60.210: SITE MAINTENANCE:
Surplus dirt, debris, rocks or building materials shall be contained during
permit work and the site cleaned daily to reduce the possibility of materials
being carried off site by runoff. Materials shall not be placed in such a
manner which might result in the blockage of any drainage structure or channel.
   A.   Cleanup And Dust Control: Throughout all phases of construction,
including suspension of work, the permittee shall keep the work site clean and
free from rubbish and debris. The permittee shall also abate dust nuisance by
cleaning, sweeping and sprinkling with water or other means as necessary. The
use of water resulting in mud on roads or drainage facilities will not be
allowed as a substitute for sweeping or other measures. All soil and
construction material shall be removed prior to that portion of the road being
made available to traffic.
   B.   Haul Routes: When required by the town, the permittee shall have a
designated truck haul route for hauling of materials and/or disposal of excess
materials. Care shall be exercised to prevent spillage on, or damage to, town
roads. Any such spillage or damage shall be removed or repaired immediately.
Dust control and traffic control shall be provided for all hauling operations.
   C.   Storage In Town Roads: There shall be no equipment or materials stored
or stockpiled in road right of way. Equipment and materials shall be removed
from road right of way when not in use and at the end of each working day,
except as approved by the administrative authority. Off site storage locations,
including equipment and material storage yards, must be approved by the town
and proof of property owner approval supplied to the town prior to occupation
of the site.
   D.   Emergency Response: Before work is started the permittee shall furnish
names and telephone numbers of person(s) on call if emergency work is required
by the town. The town, at its sole discretion, may elect to perform emergency
work if it is judged as necessary for the protection of the roads or for the
health and safety of the public. All emergency work shall be accomplished at no
expense to the town and reimbursement for all town expenses shall be required
of the permittee.
   E.   Maintenance Of Trenches: Permittee shall perform continuing maintenance
of all trenches, including periods of suspension of work, during the course of
construction and shall maintain the trench for a period of twelve (12) months.
(Ord. 260, 8-16-2016)
12.60.220: PROTECTION OF WATERCOURSES REQUIRED:
The permittee shall provide and maintain adequate waterways for all surplus
water, including stormwater, runoff pumped from excavations, flushings or other
water resulting from the permittee's operations. (Ord. 260, 8-16-2016)
12.60.230: CUTTING OF PAVEMENT, SIDEWALK, CURB, GUTTER AND CROSS GUTTER:
   A.   Asphalt Pavement: Asphalt pavement shall be saw cut unless an alternate
method is approved by the administrative authority.
   B.   Concrete Sidewalk, Curb, Gutter And Cross Gutter: All concrete
facilities shall be saw cut. The depth of cut shall be a minimum of one-third
(1/3) of the thickness of the material being cut. Sidewalks, curbs, gutters and
cross gutters shall be cut on and removed to the nearest joint or score line.
In the absence of lines and joints, the area to be cut and removed will be
determined in the field by the administrative authority, or his agent. (Ord.
260, 8-16-2016)
12.60.240: UTILITY LINES AND CONDUCTOR CASINGS REQUIREMENTS:
Utility lines and conductor casings in public streets shall be installed by
boring and/or jacking when the public street has been improved, paved, widened,
or constructed in the past five (5) years and may be required by the
administrative authority to be installed by boring and/or jacking in other
public streets. Water boring shall not be permitted. (Ord. 260, 8-16-2016)
12.60.250: SUBSTRUCTURES; DEPTH REQUIREMENTS:
Unless otherwise approved by the administrative authority, the minimum cover of
substructures shall be as follows:
   A.   Streets And Alleys: Thirty inches (30") below the established flow line
of the nearest gutter; or
If a flow line is not established, then the depth shall be at a minimum of
forty eight inches (48") below the surface of the nearest outermost edge of the
traveled portion of the street; or
Designed elevations, approved by the administrative authority.
   B.   Parkways: Eighteen inches (18") below established parkway elevation.
   C.   Other Public Places: Eighteen inches (18") below the surface.
Unless the law otherwise provides, nothing in this chapter shall impose a duty
upon the permittee to maintain these minimum depth requirements upon subsequent
changes of elevation in the surface unless the depth of the substructure
interferes with the maintenance of, or travel on, a public street. (Ord. 260,
8-16-2016)
12.60.260: BACKFILLING REQUIREMENTS:
Backfilling shall consist of placing and compacting excavated or imported
material in an excavation. Compaction to a relative density of ninety five
percent (95%) shall be reached in the top twelve inches (12") of soil below
base material. Compaction to a relative density of ninety percent (90%) shall
be reached up to the ground surface at all other public places. Base material
shall be compacted to a relative density of ninety five percent (95%). Asphalt
concrete material shall be compacted to a relative density of ninety five
percent (95%). Compaction tests by an approved soils laboratory or engineer may
be required at the permittee's expense to assure compliance with this section.
(Ord. 260, 8-16-2016)
12.60.270: EXCAVATION REPAIR REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Excavations In Older Pavement: "Streets with older pavement" are
defined as those constructed, recently reconstructed, or repaved, with
improvements having been completed and accepted by the administrative authority
more than sixty (60) months prior to the date request for cutting or
excavating.
Unless the street is identified in the then adopted capital projects budget,
excavations in any street, regardless of the street's age or condition, shall
be subject to the following provisions:
      1.   The party responsible for making, suffering or causing the
excavation to be made shall restore or cause to be restored such excavation in
the manner specified herein:
         a.   For lateral cuts in the street:
            (1)   Final resurfacing shall include the grinding of existing,
surrounding pavement and repaving at a minimum depth of 0.15 feet. The
applicant shall grind five feet (5') on either side of the trench line for
residential streets for the trench length, and ten feet (10') on either side of
the trench for nonresidential streets for the trench length.
            (2)   Slurry seal shall be applied thirty feet (30') on either side
of the trench line for a length equivalent to the half width of nonresidential
streets.
            (3)   If the distance between any two (2) trenches, including the
finished resurfacing area(s) as required herein and approved under permit, is
less than ten feet (10'), the final resurfacing shall be extended to encompass
the area between the trenches.
         b.   For longitudinal cuts in the street:
            (1)   Final resurfacing shall include the grinding of existing,
surrounding pavement and repave at a minimum depth of 0.15 feet. The applicant
shall grind two feet (2') on either side of the trench line for residential
streets, and the width of the affected travel lane(s) for nonresidential
streets. If the remainder pavement between the edge of cut and gutter lip is
forty eight inches (48") or less, said pavement shall be included in the final
resurfacing.
            (2)   Slurry seal shall be applied for the full width of
residential streets and half width for nonresidential streets.
            (3)   In all cases, the resurfacing shall be for the full length of
the trench, plus an additional twenty feet (20') on each end.
         c.   For trenches other than those that are longitudinal or lateral,
the administrative authority shall establish the appropriate limits of paving
at his sole reasonable discretion.
   B.   Excavations In New Pavement:
      1.   No permit should be issued which would permit an excavation, or
pavement cut, in newly paved streets unless the applicant can demonstrate
clearly to the administrative authority that the public health and safety
require the contemplated work be permitted, and that there are no reasonable
alternatives to cutting and/or excavating. This prohibition shall not apply to
public agencies or public utilities when repairs are required to repair or
replace failed pipelines or conduits, or when a new connection, which could not
have been anticipated, must be made to satisfy a current need of that agency or
utility.
      2.   "Newly paved streets" are defined as those constructed, recently
reconstructed, or repaved, with improvements having been completed and accepted
by the administrative authority within the previous sixty (60) months prior to
the date request for cutting or excavating.
      3.   If an installation or repair is demonstrated to be critically needed
and no other alternatives exist, the administrative authority may approve an
open cut or excavation within newly paved streets, subject to the following
provisions:
         a.   The party responsible for making, suffering or causing the
excavation to be made shall restore or cause to be restored such excavation in
the manner specified herein:
            (1)   For lateral cuts in the street:
               (A)   Final resurfacing shall include the grinding of existing,
surrounding pavement and repaving at a minimum depth of 0.15 feet. The
applicant shall grind ten feet (10') on either side of the trench line for
residential streets for the trench length, and twenty feet (20') on either side
of the trench for nonresidential streets for the trench length.
               (B)   Slurry seal shall be applied fifty feet (50') on either
side of the trench line for a length equivalent to the half width of
nonresidential streets.
               (C)   If the distance between any two (2) trenches, including
the finished resurfacing area(s) as required herein and approved under permit,
is less than ten feet (10'), the final resurfacing shall be extended to
encompass the area between the trenches.
            (2)   For longitudinal cuts in the street:
               (A)   Final resurfacing shall include the grinding of existing,
surrounding pavement and repave at a minimum depth of 0.15 feet. The applicant
shall grind the entire width of residential streets, and the half street width
between the curb and centerline for nonresidential streets.
               (B)   Slurry seal shall be applied for the full width of
residential streets and half width for nonresidential streets.
               (C)   In all cases, the resurfacing shall be for the full length
of the trench, plus an additional twenty feet (20') on each end.
            (3)   For trenches other than those that are longitudinal or
lateral, the administrative authority shall establish the appropriate limits of
paving. (Ord. 260, 8-16-2016)
12.60.280: SITE RESTORATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Concrete Sidewalk, Curb, Gutter And Cross Gutter: All concrete
facilities shall be replaced at the same cross sectional thickness as that
removed except that sidewalks shall be a minimum of four inches (4") thick,
driveways and gutters six inches (6") thick, and cross gutters eight inches
(8") thick or as required by the adopted standards of the administrative
authority.
   B.   Asphalt Pavement: All trenches within existing paved roads shall be
provided with temporary surfacing of a minimum of three inch (3") thickness,
unless the permittee immediately installs permanent resurfacing. Temporary
paving shall be properly maintained until permanent surfacing is placed.
Unless previously approved by the administrative authority all temporary
pavement shall be replaced by permanent pavement within forty five (45)
calendar days.
Prior to placement of permanent pavement, edges shall be saw cut to a vertical
face. Permanent asphalt concrete shall be four inches (4") thick, unless
existing pavement section is thicker in which case the existing thickness shall
be matched. The pavement shall be placed so that the finished surface, after
compaction, is level with or does not exceed a maximum of one-fourth inch (1/
4") above the existing pavement and does not overlap onto the existing
pavement. The pavement over three inches (3") in thickness shall be installed
in two (2) lifts.
If over fifty percent (50%) of a street is destroyed by work authorized by an
encroachment permit, the administrative authority may require a structural
overlay of the entire street. (Ord. 260, 8-16-2016)
12.60.290: OPEN TRENCH; MAXIMUM:
The maximum amount of open trench to be allowed shall not exceed five hundred
feet (500') or less as determined by the administrative authority. (Ord. 260,
8-16-2016)
12.60.300: URGENT WORK:
When, in the judgment of the administrative authority, the safety or
convenience of the traveling public or the public interest requires that
encroachment work be performed as emergency work, the administrative authority
shall have full power to order, at the time the permit is granted, that all
necessary forces be employed by the permittee twenty four (24) hours a day to
the end that such work may be completed as soon as practical. (Ord. 260, 8-16-
2016)
12.60.310: EMERGENCY ACTION:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent the making of excavations
or the performance of work necessary for the preservation of life or property
or for the location of trouble in conduit or pipe, or for making repairs,
provided that the person undertaking such work shall apply to the
administrative authority for a permit on the first working day after the work
is commenced. (Ord. 260, 8-16-2016)
12.60.320: NOISE, DUST AND DEBRIS:
Each permittee shall carry out encroachment work in a manner which will avoid
unnecessary inconvenience to the general public and occupants of neighboring
property and the permittee shall take all practicable measures to reduce noise,
dust and debris. Hours of restricted operation have been established and shall
be adhered to unless otherwise approved by the administrative authority. (Ord.
260, 8-16-2016)
12.60.330: PRESERVATION OF MONUMENTS:
No monument set for the purpose of locating or preserving the lines of any
street or property subdivision, including precise survey reference points or
permanent survey bench marks within the town, shall be removed or disturbed by
any person who has not first filed a corner record for such removal or
disturbance.
Permission to remove, disturb, or replace monuments shall only be granted upon
the condition that the removal, disturbance or replacement of any monument be
done under the supervision of a registered civil engineer authorized to
practice land surveying or a licensed land surveyor. Any expenses incurred by
the town for the proper placement/replacement of monuments shall be paid by the
permittee. (Ord. 260, 8-16-2016)
12.60.340: INSPECTIONS:
The administrative authority shall make inspections and may establish rules and
regulations reasonably necessary to enforce and carry out the intent of this
chapter. (Ord. 260, 8-16-2016)
12.60.350: NONPERMITTED EQUIPMENT:
Steel tracked equipment is not permitted on town streets without prior approval
of the administrative authority. (Ord. 260, 8-16-2016)
12.60.360: STOP WORK AND/OR CANCELLATION OF PERMIT:
   A.   The administrative authority shall be authorized to stop work on any
permit if any of the following occur:
      1.   Unsafe working conditions to either the general public or workers on
site.
      2.   Substandard work.
      3.   Nuisances such as dust, debris or mud are deposited on town streets
and not cleaned in a timely manner.
   B.   If the above conditions occur on a recurring basis the administrative
authority is authorized to cancel the permit. (Ord. 260, 8-16-2016)
12.60.370: VIOLATION OF PERMIT:
Violation of the encroachment permit terms may subject the permit to revocation
per section
12.60.410 of this chapter, as well as other enforcement procedures provided by
this code. (Ord. 260, 8-16-2016)
12.60.380: MAILBOXES:
Mailboxes are permitted within street rights of way. Mailboxes shall be
installed per town standards. (Ord. 260, 8-16-2016)
12.60.390: DROP BOXES AND PUBLICATION STANDS:
Drop boxes and publication stands are permitted in industrial and commercial
zones only.
At the discretion of the administrative authority drop boxes and publication
stands may be subject to the same requirements as mailboxes. (Ord. 260, 8-16-
2016)
12.60.400: PUBLIC NUISANCE:
Any work performed contrary to the permit, the plans, if plans are made, and
the specifications referred to in this chapter that is determined by the
administrative authority to be a public nuisance shall be removed or abandoned.
(Ord. 260, 8-16-2016)
12.60.410: DEFECTIVE WORK AND MATERIALS:
Upon order of the administrative authority, any work or material which does not
conform to the permit, the plans, if plans are made, and the specifications
referred to in this chapter shall be removed and replaced so as to conform to
the plans and specifications, notwithstanding that such work or material has
been previously inspected, or approved, or accepted by the administrative
authority.
Permittee shall be required to maintain all traffic control and maintain trench
repair while the work is stopped. (Ord. 260, 8-16-2016)
12.60.420: ENCROACHMENT PERMIT HANDOUT:
The administrative authority is authorized to prepare a handout listing the
requirements for encroachment permit applications. The handout may elaborate
further on the requirements listed in this chapter. Modifications to the
handout may be made that do not affect the policies within this chapter without
town council action. (Ord. 260, 8-16-2016)
 
