CODE OF THE TOWN OF HAMMONTON
Current through
Ordinance 021-2024, passed 10-28-2024
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2668.jpg]
 
Town of Hammonton
100 Central Avenue
Hammonton, NJ 08037
www.townofhammonton.org
 
Phone: 609-567-4300
Email: townclerk@townofhammonton.org
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: www.amlegal.com 
CHAPTER 1.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
[HISTORY; Adopted by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton as
indicated in article histories. Amendments noted where applicable.]
ARTICLE I.
Adoption of Code by Mayor and Common Council
   
§ 1-1.   Adoption of Code.
   
§ 1-2.   Code supersedes prior ordinances.
   
§ 1-3.   When effective.
   
§ 1-4.   Copy of Code on file.
   
§ 1-5.   Amendments to Code.
   
§ 1-6.   Publication; filing.
   
§ 1-7.   Code book to be kept up-to-date.
   
§ 1-8.   Sale of Code book.
   
§ 1-9.   Altering or tampering with Code; penalties for violation.
   
§ 1-10.   Severability of Code provisions.
   
§ 1-11.   Severability of ordinance provisions.
   
§ 1-12.   Repealer.
   
§ 1-13.   Ordinances saved from repeal.
   
§ 1-14.   Changes in previously adopted ordinances.
Article I.
Adoption of Code by Mayor and Common Council
[Adopted 7-23-2001 by Ord. No. 26-2001]
§ 1-1. Adoption of Code.
   Pursuant to N.J.S.A. 40:49-4, the ordinances of the Town of Hammonton of a
general and permanent nature adopted by the Town Mayor and Common Council of
the Town of Hammonton, as revised, codified and consolidated into chapters and
sections by General Code Publishers Corp., and consisting of Chapters 1 through
275, together with an Appendix, are hereby approved, adopted, ordained and
enacted as the "Code of the Town of Hammonton," hereinafter known and referred
to as the "Code."
§ 1-2. Code supersedes prior ordinances.
   This ordinance and the Code shall supersede all other general and permanent
ordinances enacted prior to the enactment of this Code, except such ordinances
as are hereinafter expressly saved from repeal or continued in force.
§ 1-3. When effective.
   This ordinance shall take effect immediately upon passage and publication
according to law.
§ 1-4. Copy of Code on file.
   A copy of the Code in loose-leaf form has been filed in the office of the
Town Clerk/Administrator and shall remain there for use and examination by the
public until final action is taken on this ordinance; and, if this ordinance
shall be adopted, such copy shall be certified to by the Clerk/Administrator of
the Town of Hammonton by impressing thereon the Seal of the Town, as provided
by law, and such certified copy shall remain on file in the office of the
Clerk/Administrator of the Town, to be made available to persons desiring to
examine the same during all times while said Code is in effect.
§ 1-5. Amendments to Code.
   Any and all additions, amendments or supplements to the Code, when passed
and adopted in such form as to indicate the intent of the governing body to
make them a part thereof, shall be deemed to be incorporated into such Code so
that reference to the "Code of the Town of Hammonton" shall be understood and
intended to include such additions and amendments. Whenever such additions,
amendments or supplements to the Code shall be adopted, they shall thereafter
be printed and, as provided hereunder, inserted in the loose-leaf book
containing said Code as amendments and supplements thereto.
§ 1-6. Publication; filing.
   The Clerk/Administrator of the Town of Hammonton, pursuant to law, shall
cause this Adopting Ordinance to be published, in the manner required, in a
newspaper of general circulation in the Town. Sufficient copies of the Code
shall be maintained in the office of the Clerk/Administrator for inspection by
the public at all times during regular office hours. The enactment and
publication of this Adopting Ordinance, coupled with availability of copies of
the Code for inspection by the public, shall be deemed, held and considered to
be due and legal publication of all provisions of the Code for all purposes.
§ 1-7. Code book to be kept up-to-date.
   It shall be the duty of the Clerk/Administrator or someone authorized and
directed by the Clerk/Administrator to keep up-to-date the certified copy of
the book containing the Code required to be filed in his or her office for the
use of the public. All changes in said Code and all ordinances adopted
subsequent to the effective date of this codification which shall be adopted
specifically as part of the Code shall, when finally adopted, be included
therein by reference until such changes or new ordinances are printed as
supplements to said Code book, at which time such supplements shall be inserted
therein.
§ 1-8. Sale of Code book.
   To be provided upon request, in a manner determined by the Municipal Clerk.
§ 1-9. Altering or tampering with Code; penalties for violation.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to improperly change or amend, by additions
or deletions, any part or portion of the Code or to alter or tamper with such
Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the Town of Hammonton
to be misrepresented thereby. Anyone violating this section or any part of this
ordinance shall be subject, upon conviction, to one or more of the following: a
fine of not more than $1,000, imprisonment for not more than 90 days or a
period of community service not exceeding 90 days, in the discretion of the
Judge imposing the same.
§ 1-10. Severability of Code provisions.
   Each section of the Code and every part of each section is an independent
section or part of a section, and the holding of any section or a part thereof
to be unconstitutional, void or ineffective for any cause shall not be deemed
to affect the validity or constitutionality of any other sections or parts
thereof.
§ 1-11. Severability of ordinance provisions.
   Each section of this ordinance is an independent section, and the holding of
any section or part thereof to be unconstitutional, void or ineffective for any
cause shall not be deemed to affect the validity or constitutionality of any
other sections or parts thereof.
§ 1-12. Repealer.
   All ordinances or parts of ordinances of a general and permanent nature
adopted and in force on the date of the adoption of this ordinance and not
contained in the Code are hereby repealed as of the effective date of this
Adopting Ordinance, except as hereinafter provided.
§ 1-13. Ordinances saved from repeal.
   The adoption of this Code and the repeal of ordinances provided for in §
1-12 of this ordinance shall not affect the following ordinances, rights and
obligations, which are hereby expressly saved from repeal:
   A.   Any ordinance adopted subsequent to 9-25-2000.
   B.   Any right or liability established, accrued or incurred under any
legislative provision prior to the effective date of this ordinance or any
action or proceeding brought for the enforcement of such right or liability.
   C.   Any offense or act committed or done before the effective date of this
ordinance in violation of any legislative provision or any penalty, punishment
or forfeiture which may result there from.
   D.   Any prosecution, indictment, action, suit or other proceeding pending
or any judgment rendered, prior to the effective date of this ordinance,
brought pursuant to any legislative provision.
   E.   Any franchise, license, right, easement or privilege heretofore granted
or conferred.
   F.   Any ordinance providing for the laying out, opening, altering,
widening, relocating, straightening, establishing of grade, changing of name,
improvement, acceptance or vacation of any right-of-way, easement, street,
road, highway, park or other public place or any portion thereof.
   G.   Any ordinance or resolution appropriating money or transferring funds,
promising or guaranteeing the payment of money or authorizing the issuance and
delivery of any bond or other instruments or evidence of the Town's
indebtedness.
   H.   Ordinances authorizing the purchase, sale, lease or transfer of
property or any lawful contract, agreement or obligation.
   I.   The levy or imposition of taxes, assessments or charges or the approval
of the municipal budget.
   J.   The dedication of property or approval of preliminary or final
subdivision plats.
   K.   All currently effective ordinances pertaining to the rate and manner of
payment of salaries and compensation of officers and employees.
   L.   Any ordinance adopting or amending the Zoning Map.
   M.   Any ordinance relating to or establishing a pension plan or pension
fund for municipal employees.
§ 1-14. Changes in previously adopted ordinances.
   A.   In compiling and preparing the ordinances for adoption and revision as
part of the Code pursuant to N.J.S.A. 40:49-4, certain grammatical changes and
other minor changes were made in one or more of said ordinances. It is the
intention of the Town Mayor and Common Council that all such changes be adopted
as part of the Code as if the ordinances so changed had been previously
formally amended to read as such.
   B.   In addition, the changes, amendments or revisions as set forth in
Schedule A attached hereto and made a part hereof are made herewith, to become
effective upon the effective date of this ordinance. (Chapter and section
number references are to the ordinances as they have been renumbered and appear
in the Code.) Editor's Note: In accordance with §
1-14B, the articles and sections which were amended, added or deleted by this
ordinance are indicated throughout the Code by a footnote referring to Chapter
1, General Provisions, Article I. During routine supplementation, footnotes
indicating amendments, additions or deletions will be replaced with the
following history: "Amended (added, deleted) 7-23-2001 by Ord. No. 26-2001."
Schedule A, which contains a complete description of all changes, is on file in
the Town offices.
   C.   Global changes.
      (1)   Violations and penalties. In the following sections, penalties have
been amended or added to provide that persons convicted of violating a chapter/
article of shall be subject to one or more of the following: a fine not
exceeding $1,000, imprisonment for a term not exceeding 90 days or a period of
community service not exceeding 90 days: §§
22-13A and B;
51-16;
72-12;
75-11;
79-13;
79-27;
82-22;
82-33;
85-6;
88-11;
99-2;
104-7;
119-6;
137-7;
137-11;
144-8;
147-6;
151-6;
154-4A;
172-7;
180-7;
184-20;
184-24;
193-4;
200-7;
202-5;
204-5;
204-12;
204-28;
217-21;
220-7;
223-9;
226-12B(1);
226-26;
226-31;
230-10B;
233-4; 241-16;
241-28A;
241-43;
244-7;
247-4;
247-8;
247-23; 247-30;
247-37;
247-44B;
247-48;
251-9;
257-10;
261-8;
264-20;
267-6;
267-18A;
274-4;
275-11; 27-26;
275-29.
      (2)   Statutory references. Statutory references have been updated in the
text to the current N.J.S.A. reference as necessary to replace repealed or
outdated references to enhance the unconsolidated reference.
      (3)   Gender-neutral language. Throughout the Code, gender-neutral
language has been used, using he/she, his/her, him/her construction or
substituting proper nouns for pronouns where possible. Simple conversions such
as "policeman" to "police officer," "Councilman" to "Council member" and
"Chairman" to "Chairperson" have been made.
      (4)   Nomenclature changes. Throughout the Code, the following
nomenclature changes have been made:
         (a)    Supervisor of Recreation has been changed to Recreation
Supervisor.
         (b)    Town Clerk has been changed to Town Clerk/Administrator.
         (c)    Department of Environmental Protection and Energy has been
changed to Department of Environmental Protection.
CHAPTER 3.
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION
[HISTORY: Adopted by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton as
indicated in article histories. Amendments noted where applicable.]
ARTICLE I.
Equal Employment Opportunity
   
§ 3-1.   Purpose; compliance with statutory provisions.
   
§ 3-2.   Title.
   
§ 3-3.   Procurement and promulgation of service contracts by town.
   
§ 3-4.   Designation of employee to implement provisions.
   
§ 3-5.   Violations and penalties.
ARTICLE II.
Affirmative Marketing
   
§ 3-6.   Applicability.
   
§ 3-7.   Use of media for marketing purposes.
   
§ 3-8.   Community contact persons.
   
§ 3-9.   Random selection method.
   
§ 3-10.   Responsibility for administration of program.
   
§ 3-11.   Preference for certain households.
   
§ 3-12.   Duration and monitoring of program.
Article I.
Equal Employment Opportunity
[Adopted 9-10-1979 by Ord. No. 13-1979 as Ch. 61A of the 1971 Code]
§ 3-1. Purpose; compliance with statutory provisions.
   A.   In recognition of the important policy issues addressed by these
affirmative action regulations and in further recognition of the essential need
to maintain viable procurement, service and construction contract procedures so
that the business operations of state and local government may proceed in an
efficient and timely manner, these affirmative action regulations shall be
adopted to promote equal employment opportunity to all persons, regardless of
race, color, religion, sex or national origin, by prohibiting discrimination in
employment, by ensuring equitable representation of minorities and women that
will be consistent with both population parity and/or available work force and
requiring affirmative action in the performance of contracts funded by the
State of New Jersey.
   B.   These regulations establish affirmative action employment standards and
practices necessary to comply with equal employment opportunity standards
required by P.L. 1975, c. 127 (N.J.S.A. 10:5-31 to 10:5-38).
§ 3-2. Title.
   This article shall be known as and may be cited as the "Affirmative Action
Ordinance of the Town of Hammonton."
§ 3-3. Procurement and promulgation of service contracts by town.
   The Town of Hammonton, as a political subdivision of the state, shall be
deemed to be the public agency for purposes of procurement and promulgating of
service contracts as well as construction contracts.
§ 3-4. Designation of employee to implement provisions.
   There shall be designated by the public agency an officer or employee who
will maintain liaison with and assist the State Treasurer in the implementation
of P.L. 1975, c. 127 (N.J.S.A. 10:5-31 to 10:5-38).
§ 3-5. Violations and penalties.
   Any person who violates or neglects to comply with any provision of this
article established herein or notice issued pursuant thereto shall, upon
conviction, be liable to a penalty or fine for each violation.
Article II.
Affirmative Marketing
[Adopted 12-27-1999 by Ord. No. 36-1999]
§ 3-6. Applicability.
   The Town of Hammonton in Atlantic County has a fair-share obligation of 352
units of which 258 are new affordable housing opportunities. This article will
apply to all new developments that contain proposed low- and moderate-income
units that are listed below and any future developments that may occur. Current
approved developments include Plymouth Place Apartments.
§ 3-7. Use of media for marketing purposes.
   A.   The affirmative marketing plan is a regional marketing strategy
designed to attract buyers and/or renters of all majority and minority groups,
regardless of sex, age or number of children, to housing units which are being
marketed by a developer/sponsor, municipality and/or designated administrative
agency of affordable housing. The plan will address the requirements of
N.J.A.C. 5:93-11. In addition, the plan prohibits discrimination in the sale,
rental, financing or other services related to housing on the basis of race,
color, sex, religion, handicap, age, familial status/size or national origin.
The Town of Hammonton is in the housing region consisting of Atlantic County,
Cape May County, Cumberland County and Salem County. The affirmative marketing
program is a continuing program and will meet the following requirements:
      (1)   All newspaper articles, announcements and requests for applications
for low- and moderate-income units will appear in the following daily regional
newspapers/publications:
         (a)   Press of Atlantic City.
         (b)   The Times Journal.
         (c)   Today's Sunbeam.
      (2)   The primary marketing will take the form of at least one press
release sent to the above publications and a paid display advertisement in each
of the above newspapers. Additional advertising and publicity will be on an as-
needed basis.
      (3)   The advertisement will include the:
         (a)   Street address;
         (b)   Direction to housing units;
         (c)   Number of bedrooms per unit;
         (d)   Range of selling prices/rents;
         (e)   Size of units;
         (f)   Household income limits; and
         (g)   Location of applications, including business hours and where/how
applications may be obtained.
      (4)   All newspaper articles, announcements and requests for applications
for low- and moderate-income housing will appear in the following neighborhood-
oriented weekly newspapers, religious publications and organizational
newsletters within the region:
         (a)   Hammonton News.
         (b)   Hammonton Gazette.
         (c)   Times Journal.
         (d)   The Gazette Leader.
         (e)   Elmer Times.
         (f)   The Daily Journal.
      (5)   If applicable, the following regional radio and/or cable television
station(s) will be used: N/A.
   B.   The following is the location of applications, brochure(s), sign(s),
and/or poster(s) used as part of the affirmative marketing program including
specific employment centers within the region:
      (1)   Municipal building.
      (2)   Municipal library.
      (3)   Developer's sales/rental office on site.
      (4)   Senior Centers in Atlantic, Cape May, Cumberland and Salem
Counties.
§ 3-8. Community contact persons.
   A.   The following is a listing of community contact person(s) and/or
organization(s) in Atlantic County, Cape May County, Cumberland County and
Salem County that will aid in the affirmative marketing program with particular
emphasis on contacts that will reach out to groups that are least likely to
apply for housing within the region: Directors of Housing within the respective
counties.
   B.   Applications will be mailed to prospective applicants upon request.
   C.   Additionally, applications will be sent to the chief administrative
employees of each of the following agencies in the Counties of Atlantic, Cape
May, Cumberland and Salem:
      (1)   Office on Aging.
      (2)   Housing Agency or Authority.
      (3)   Library.
      (4)   Area Community Action Agencies.
§ 3-9. Random selection method.
   The following is a description of the random selection method that will be
used to select occupants of low- and moderate-income housing: such procedures
as may be established by the Council on Affordable Housing:
§ 3-10. Responsibility for administration of program.
   The Town of Hammonton is ultimately responsible for administering the
affirmative marketing program. The Town of Hammonton has delegated this
responsibility to the Hammonton Planning Board. The Hammonton Planning Board
will income-qualify low- and moderate-income households; place income-eligible
households in low- and moderate-income units upon initial occupancy; provide
for the initial occupancy of low- and moderate-income units with income
qualified households; continue to qualify households for re-occupancy of units
as they become vacant during the period of affordability controls; assist with
advertising and outreach to low- and moderate-income households if in contract;
and enforce the terms of the deed restriction and mortgage loan as per N.J.A.C.
5:93-9.1. The (municipal contact person) within the Town of Hammonton is the
designated housing officer to act as liaison to the Hammonton Planning Board.
The Hammonton Planning Board will provide counseling services to low- and
moderate-income applicants on subjects such as budgeting, credit issues,
mortgage qualification, responsibilities of homeownership, rental lease
requirements and landlord/tenant law. Service providers shall be selected to
perform the above services.
§ 3-11. Preference for certain households.
   Households who live or work in the COAH-established housing region may be
given preference for sales and rental units constructed within that housing
region. Applicants living outside the housing region will have an equal
opportunity for units after regional applicants have been initially serviced.
The Town of Hammonton intends to comply with N.J.A.C. 5:93-11.7. Developers of
low and moderate housing units may assist in the marketing of the affordable
units in their respective developments if so designated by the Town of
Hammonton.
§ 3-12. Duration and monitoring of program.
   A.   The marketing program will commence at least 120 days before the
issuance of either temporary or permanent certificates of occupancy. The
marketing program will continue until all low- and moderate-income housing
units are initially occupied and for as long as affordable units are deed
restricted and occupancy or re-occupancy of units continues to be necessary.
   B.   The Hammonton Planning Board will comply with monitoring and reporting
requirements as per N.J.A.C. 5:93-11.6 and 5:93-12.1.
CHAPTER 6.
BOARDS, COMMITTEES AND COMMISSIONS
[HISTORY: Adopted by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton as
indicated in article histories. Amendments noted where applicable.]
ARTICLE I.
(Reserved) (§ 6-1)
ARTICLE II.
Board of Park Commissioners (§ 6-5 — § 6-10)
ARTICLE III.
Environmental Commission (§ 6-11 — § 6-21)
ARTICLE IV.
Rent Control Board (§ 6-22 — § 6-33.1)
ARTICLE V.
Historic Preservation Commission (§ 6-34 — § 6-38)
ARTICLE VI.
Water and Sewer Subcommittee (§ 6-39 — § 6-42)
GENERAL REFERENCES
   Fire Department — See
Ch. 25.
   Department of Parks and Recreation — See
Ch. 41.
   Police Department — See
Ch. 51.
ARTICLE II.
Board of Park Commissioners
[Adopted 9-13-1971 by Ord. No. 10-1971 as Ch. 43 of the 1971 Code]
   
§ 6-5.   Designation of Board.
   
§ 6-6.   Composition; terms of office; alternate members.
   
§ 6-7.   Service without compensation.
   
§ 6-8.   Duties and responsibilities.
   
§ 6-9.   Authority and power.
   
§ 6-10.   Funds to maintain and operate parks.
§ 6-5. Designation of Board.
   From and after the first day of January in the year 1931, there shall be
within the Town of Hammonton a board known and designated as the "Board of Park
Commissioners," the members of which shall hold office and perform the duties
as herein described.
§ 6-6. Composition; terms of office; alternate members.
   A.   The Board of Park Commissioners shall be composed of two members of the
Council and seven residents, all to be appointed by the Council upon the
nomination of the Mayor. The two members of the Board appointed from Council
shall hold office for one year. The seven resident members shall serve terms of
two years with four of the members terms expiring in one year and the remaining
three members terms expiring in the alternate year. Vacancies in the board
occurring by resignation or otherwise shall be filled for the unexpired term
only.
[Amended 3-17-2008 by Ord. No. 8-2008; amended 2-24-2024 by Ord. No. 003-2024]
   B.   Alternate members.
[Added 3-22-2004 by Ord. No. 4-2004]
      (1)   By nomination of the Mayor, and appointment of Council, two
alternates shall be selected to serve on the Board of Park Commissioners. Such
selection shall be made by January 1 of each year.
      (2)   The two alternate members shall be designated at the time of
appointment as "Alternate No. 1" and "Alternate No. 2" and shall serve during
the absence or disqualification of any regular member or members. Of the
alternate members first appointed, Alternate No. 2 shall serve for one year and
Alternate No. 1 shall serve for two years. Thereafter, alternate members shall
be appointed for the same term of office as are regular members. Vacancies
shall be filled by nomination of the Mayor, and appointment of Council, for the
unexpired term only. An alternate member may participate in discussions of the
proceedings but may not vote except in the absence or disqualification of a
regular member. A vote shall not be delayed in order that a regular member may
vote instead of an alternate member.
§ 6-7. Service without compensation.
   The members of the Board shall serve without compensation, and they shall
annually, from their number, elect a President and Secretary.
§ 6-8. Duties and responsibilities.
Editor's Note: See
Ch. 200, Parks and Recreation Areas. The Board of Park Commissioners shall have
charge of and conduct all parks and open places for public rest and recreation
which shall be located within the Town and to which the Town has acquired title
or may hereafter acquire title, and shall lay out, embellish and maintain the
same in the manner which shall seem best to the Board and under rules and
regulations made by the Board.
§ 6-9. Authority and power.
   The Board of Park Commissioners shall have full and complete authority and
power, exclusive of Council, to expend the moneys raised for park purposes,
other than for the acquisition of land, and all moneys so raised for such
purposes shall be paid out by the Town Treasurer upon warrants signed by the
Mayor, Town Clerk/Administrator and Town Treasurer, bills having been
previously approved by the Board of Park Commissioners and ordered paid by the
Council.
§ 6-10. Funds to maintain and operate parks.
   The Board of Park Commissioners shall meet and determine what sum may be
necessary in the first instance for laying out, constructing and embellishing
the public parks, and thereafter annually for the care and maintenance of the
same, and shall recommend to the Council, in writing, the amount so to be
raised. The Council shall not raise any money for park purposes, either by
issue of bonds or by taxation, excepting upon and after recommendation by the
Board of Park Commissioners. The sum actually raised by the Council in any year
shall not in any case exceed the sum recommended by the Board, but the Council
may raise any less amount.
ARTICLE III.
Environmental Commission
[Adopted 3-10-1975 by Ord. No. 8-1975; amended in its entirety 8-23-2010 by
Ord. No. 16-2010]
   
§ 6-11.   Creation of Commission.
   
§ 6-12.   Limitation on functions.
   
§ 6-13.   Membership and terms.
   
§ 6-14.   Powers.
   
§ 6-15.   Acquisition of property.
   
§ 6-16.   Control of acquired land.
   
§ 6-17.   Records and reports.
   
§ 6-18.   Organization.
   
§ 6-19.   Removal of members.
   
§ 6-20.   Appropriation.
   
§ 6-21.   Appointment of assistants; compensation.
§ 6-11. Creation of Commission.
   There is considered to be a need in the interest of the public health,
safety and welfare for the creation of an Environmental Commission for the Town
of Hammonton pursuant to Chapter 245 of the Public Laws of 1968 as amended by
Chapter 35 of the Public Laws of 1972 of the State of New Jersey (N.J.S.A. 40:
56A-1 et seq.), which Commission shall be known as the "Environmental
Commission of the Town of Hammonton."
§ 6-12. Limitation on functions.
   A.   The function of said Environmental Commission shall be limited to
advising the Planning Board, the governing body of the Town of Hammonton and
all subsidiary agencies thereof on the areas as hereinafter delineated, and
receiving and disseminating information on said issues, and securing federal
and state funding for said purposes.
   B.   Said Commission shall not have the power to legislate or make final
determinations on any pending subdivision or other similar applications but
shall be permitted to review the same for the purpose of making recommendations
to the appropriate Town agencies.
§ 6-13. Membership and terms.
   Said Environmental Commission shall consist of seven members to be appointed
by the Mayor of the Town of Hammonton, with one member being a member of the
Hammonton Planning Board and with all members being residents of the Town of
Hammonton. Three members of said Commission shall be appointed for terms
expiring December 31, 1977, two of said members shall be appointed for terms
expiring December 31, 1976, and two of said members shall be appointed for
terms expiring December 31, 1975. The Planning Board member of said Commission
shall be appointed for a term not to exceed the remainder of his/her term on
the Planning Board. All subsequent appointments of members to the Commission,
except for the filling of vacancies for unexpired terms, shall be for terms of
three years beginning the first day of January of the first year of said term.
§ 6-14. Powers.
   The Environmental Commission of the Town of Hammonton shall have the
following powers:
   A.   Promote the conservation and development of the environmental quality
of the Town of Hammonton.
   B.   Plan, implement and inform the public about local conservation
programs.
   C.   Compile and keep an index of all open areas, publicly or privately
owned, including open marshlands, swamps and other wetlands.
   D.   Conduct research into the possible use of the open areas and the
preservation or protection of their resources, such as air and water.
   E.   Recommend to the Planning Board plans and programs for inclusion in a
municipal master plan and the development and use of such areas.
   F.   Advertise, prepare, print and distribute books, maps, charts, plans and
pamphlets which, in its judgment, it deems necessary for its purposes.
   G.   Identify all scenic, historic, park and recreation sites and make
recommendations for their protection and improvement.
   H.   Make recommendations as to legislation for control of excavation and
soil erosion and other activities affecting the landscape.
   I.   Review all proposed road locations and subdivisions for their
environmental impact.
   J.   Promote good architectural and landscape design for all developments
with adequate provision for park and green areas therein.
   K.   Manage donated or purchased lands for conservation purposes and operate
conservation programs.
   L.   Act as the coordinating agency of the community on conservation matters
and a liaison between local conservation needs and regional, state and federal
agencies ministering to those needs.
   M.   Manage Town trees, street trees and removal of large trees within the
Town limits.
§ 6-15. Acquisition of property.
   The Commission, with the approval of the Mayor and Common Council of the
Town of Hammonton, may from time to time acquire property, both real and
personal, in the name of the Town of Hammonton by gift, purchase, grant,
bequest, devise or lease for any of its purposes, including but not limited to
use as living museums, sites for scientific study, areas for teaching of
natural history and conservation, places of historic or prehistoric interest
and scenic beauty and habitat for rare and endangered plants and animals, and
shall administer the same for such purposes, subject to the terms of the
conveyance or gift. Such an acquisition may be to acquire the fee or any lesser
interest, development right, easement, including conservation easement,
covenant or other contractual right, including conveyance on conditions or with
limitations or reversions, as may be necessary to acquire, maintain, improve,
protect, limit the future use of or otherwise conserve and properly utilize
open spaces and other land and water areas in the Town of Hammonton.
§ 6-16. Control of acquired land.
   The Environmental Commission may, subject to the approval of the Mayor and
Council of the Town of Hammonton, have control of lands acquired for the
purposes herein stated and may adopt suitable rules and regulations for the use
thereof and the conduct of all persons while on or using the same.
§ 6-17. Records and reports.
   The Commission shall keep records of its meetings and activities and shall
make an annual report on or before the first day of January and submit the same
to the Mayor and Council of the Town of Hammonton, which report shall be
comprehensive and detailed, covering operations, receipts, disbursements and
expenditures for the full year.
§ 6-18. Organization.
   A.   The Mayor shall designate one of the members to serve as Chairman and
presiding officer of the said Commission.
   B.   The said Commission is authorized to adopt bylaws governing its
procedural operation.
§ 6-19. Removal of members.
   The Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton may remove any member
of the Commission for cause, on written charges served upon the member and
after a hearing thereon at which the member shall be entitled to be heard in
person or by counsel.
§ 6-20. Appropriation.
   The Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton shall annually fix,
determine and appropriate a sum sufficient for the care, custody, policing and
maintenance of such lands acquired for the uses and purposes herein stated, and
for the expenses of the said Commission, which shall be raised by taxation in
the same manner as other taxes.
§ 6-21. Appointment of assistants; compensation.
   The Commission may appoint a secretary or Clerk and such number of
custodians, supervisors and assistants for the lands acquired for the uses and
purposes herein mentioned as it shall think necessary, but the salaries of all
such clerks, custodians, supervisors and assistants shall be fixed and
determined by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton, and, in
addition thereto, the total salaries of all such persons shall be within the
limits of funds appropriated to the said Commission.
ARTICLE IV.
Rent Control Board
[Adopted 3-8-1976 by Ord. No. 2-1976]
   
§ 6-22.   Legislative purpose.
   
§ 6-23.   Statutory authority.
   
§ 6-24.   Legislative necessity.
   
§ 6-25.   Definitions.
   
§ 6-26.   Establishment of Board; membership; terms; compensation.
   
§ 6-27.   Determination of standards.
   
§ 6-28.   Recommendations following investigation.
   
§ 6-29.   Powers of Board.
   
§ 6-30.   Acceleration of rentals by owners.
   
§ 6-31.   Time limit for report on investigation.
   
§ 6-32.   Recommendation of penalties; Board as prosecutor.
   
§ 6-33.   Continuation of moratorium.
   
§ 6-33.1. Termination of Board; Quality of Life Committee.
§ 6-22. Legislative purpose.
   It is deemed in the public interest that controls be created for the
protection of all inhabitants of the Town of Hammonton in apartment complexes
as hereinafter defined and that an investigation be made to determine the
amount of increase that should be permitted for rental units in the Town of
Hammonton within such complexes so as to grant the owners of said complexes
sufficient increase to cover increased expenses and a fair return on their
investment, while protecting the tenants from undue raises not justified by
either the expenses or investment involved. Editor's Note: See
Ch. 217, Rent Control.
§ 6-23. Statutory authority.
   Under the police powers created by the laws of the State of New Jersey and
under the cases decided there under, the Mayor and Common Council of the Town
of Hammonton has the authority to control rental increases, provided that the
controls are reasonable and in the public interest.
§ 6-24. Legislative necessity.
   It is necessary that a Rent Control Board be created to investigate the
actual increase in cost and capital investment in each apartment complex in the
Town of Hammonton for the purpose of determining the amount of rent increase
that is reasonable in the premises and to further protect the health, safety
and welfare of all citizens of the Town of Hammonton, including those
inhabiting such apartment complexes.
§ 6-25. Definitions.
   As used in this article, the following terms shall have the meanings
indicated:
   APARTMENT COMPLEX
   As regulated hereunder, any property or facility in which there exists four
or more rental units.
§ 6-26. Establishment of Board; membership; terms; compensation.
[Amended 3-9-1981 by Ord. No. 2-1981; 8-10-1981 by Ord. No. 18-1981]
   A.   There is hereby established a Rent Control Board of the Town of
Hammonton, consisting of seven members to be appointed by the Mayor and
confirmed by Town Council. Two of the seven members appointed to the Board
shall be Council members of the Town of Hammonton. The other five members
appointed to the Board shall be citizens and residents of the Town of
Hammonton. Three initial members (one Council member and two citizens of the
Town of Hammonton) shall serve for one-year terms, and three (one Council
member and two citizens of the Town of Hammonton) shall serve for two-year
terms and one for a three-year term. All subsequent members shall serve for
two-year terms. There shall be no compensation for the members of this Board.
   B.   The Mayor and Town Council shall appoint two alternate members.
Alternate members shall be designated as Alternate No. 1 and Alternate No. 2
and shall serve in rotation during the absence or disqualification of regular
member or members. The term of each alternate member shall be two years.
§ 6-27. Determination of standards.
   The Rent Control Board is hereby instructed, authorized, empowered and
directed to conduct that investigation necessary to determine standards for
future rental increases in apartment complexes within the Town of Hammonton.
The Rent Control Board created herein is charged with the responsibility of
conducting the investigation and surveys of the investment, expenses and return
on investment of all owners of apartment complexes in the Town of Hammonton.
The Rent Control Board shall complete said investigation within the period of
90 days from the date the members thereof are appointed and qualified to serve.
The Rent Control Board thereafter shall annually review the costs and expenses
of all apartment complexes and the capital structure thereof on an annual basis
for the purpose of determining whether there should be a revision of such
standards.
§ 6-28. Recommendations following investigation.
   The Rent Control Board shall, from its first investigation, make the
following recommendations:
   A.   The amount of increase that should be permitted, if any, for all
apartment complexes in the Town of Hammonton as of the return date of said
preliminary investigation.
   B.   A set of uniform standards which will control all rental increases
pending a subsequent review and amendment of said standards by a subsequent
investigation. Said standards should provide guidelines for rental increases
referable to specific guidelines and published standards.
   C.   Establishment of a procedure under which owners of apartment complexes
or tenants may appeal the findings of the Rent Control Board.
   D.   Establishment of a procedure under which the Rent Control Board may
hold hearings on any violation of its standards.
   E.   Establishment of standards to determine the amount of rent chargeable
on a new apartment complex or to a new tenant in his/her first lease contract.
§ 6-29. Powers of Board.
   The Rent Control Board shall have all the powers necessary to carry out the
investigatory powers and recommendations of this article, including the right
to hold hearings, the right to compel the presentation of all financial data on
each apartment complex within the Town of Hammonton and the power to review all
publications and statistical data available in said area of rent control, as
well as the standards imposed in other municipalities.
§ 6-30. Acceleration of rentals by owners.
   The owners of apartment complexes shall have the right, after the submission
of the report and recommendations of the Rent Control Board and the
implementation of these recommendations through appropriate municipal action,
to accelerate all rentals in any leases that are renewed after March 10, 1976,
during the period that this moratorium extension exists, of an amount equal to
that amount that the Rent Control Board finds is a proper increase over the
rents in existence as of the effective date of this article, with said
increased rentals being retroactive to the date of the renewal. This right to
accelerate is expressly dependent upon the increase being approved by the Rent
Control Board and the accelerated difference being amortized over the remaining
period of the lease.
§ 6-31. Time limit for report on investigation.
   At any time within 90 days but no later than 90 days from the date that the
members of this Rent Control Board are appointed and qualified, the Rent
Control Board shall report its findings on its first investigation as required
by this article. Said recommendations as to regulations and standards on
present and future rental increases shall be submitted to the Mayor and Council
for further action and, if adopted by the Mayor and Council, shall remain in
effect until the next annual investigation provided herein.
§ 6-32. Recommendation of penalties; Board as prosecutor.
   The Rent Control Board shall make recommendations in said report as to the
penalties to be inserted in any rent control ordinance enacted to implement the
findings and reports of said Rent Control Board. Said Rent Control Board shall
have the power after due hearings to prosecute violators in the Municipal Court
of the Town of Hammonton or any other appropriate judicial forum.
§ 6-33. Continuation of moratorium.
   The existing moratorium upon all raising of rents in apartment complexes as
hereinabove defined is continued for an additional 120 days beyond the
expiration date of the moratorium imposed by Ordinance No. 21 of 1975, which
express date will be July 20, 1976.
§ 6-33.1. Termination of Board; Quality of Life Committee.
[Added 4-28-2008 by Ord. No. 15-2008]
   The Rent Control Board, established by Ordinance No. 2-1976 on March 8,
1976, shall cease to exist at 12:00 midnight on December 31, 2008 (the
termination date). After the termination date, the functions previously
performed by the Rent Control Board shall be performed by the Council committee
known as the "Quality of Life Committee." Between the date of approval of this
amendment and the termination date, the Rent Control Board shall continue to
function at those meetings where it has a quorum. In those circumstances where
it is unable to muster a quorum, the Quality of Life Committee shall be
authorized to act in its place and stead.
ARTICLE V.
Historic Preservation Commission
   
§ 6-34.   Purpose.
   
§ 6-35.   Membership.
   
§ 6-36.   Terms of office.
   
§ 6-37.   Appointment.
   
§ 6-38.   Functions.
[Adopted 5-22-1989 by Ord. No. 17-1989; amended in its entirety 11-27-1989 by
Ord. No. 41-1989]
§ 6-34. Purpose.
   It is deemed to be in the public interest for the Town of Hammonton to
create an Historic Preservation Commission, which shall review those structures
and areas within the Town that are or may be of historic or architectural
significance. It is determined as a fact that, in light of the creation of an
historical district in the Town of Hammonton pursuant to a study conducted
under the auspices of the County of Atlantic and because of ongoing studies of
other historic areas within the Town, an independent commission is created to
administer the review function and advisory function as such relate to those
structures which could be classified as either architecturally significant,
historically significant or as landmarks of the Town of Hammonton.
§ 6-35. Membership.
[Amended 3-27-2006 by Ord. No. 3-2006]
   A.   The Historic Preservation Commission of the Town of Hammonton shall
consist of seven regular members and two alternate members. One of the regular
members shall be a Class A member who shall be knowledgeable in building
design, construction or architectural history and may reside within or without
the Town of Hammonton. One of the regular members shall be a Class B member who
has demonstrated interest and/or knowledge of local history and may reside
within or without the Town of Hammonton. The remaining five regular members
shall be Class C members who shall hold no other municipal office nor
employment except for membership on either the Planning Board or the Board of
Adjustment.
   B.   All appointees shall be designated by class at the time of their
appointment.
   C.   The alternate members shall meet the same classifications as Class C
members and shall be designated as Alternate No. 1 and Alternate No. 2, with
said designations being made by the Mayor at the time of appointment.
§ 6-36. Terms of office.
[Amended 3-27-2006 by Ord. No. 3-2006]
   The terms of the original appointees to the Historic Preservation Commission
shall be as follows:
   A.   Two of the original appointees shall be appointed for terms to expire
December 31, 1992; one of said original appointees shall be for a term to
expire December 31, 1991; one of said appointees shall be for a term to expire
December 31, 1990; and the last original appointee shall be for a term expiring
December 31, 1989. The regular Class C member appointed in the year 2006 shall
be appointed for a term to expire December 31, 2009. The regular Class C member
appointed in the year 2006 filling the unexpired term shall be for a term to
expire December 31, 2007.
   B.   As to alternate members, one of said alternate members shall be
appointed at the time of original appointment for a term to expire December 31,
1990, and the second alternate member shall be appointed for a term to expire
December 31, 1989.
   C.   At the expiration of each appointment, the term of the regular
appointee replacing the original appointee as a member of the Commission shall
be four years. At the expiration of each alternate member's term, a successor
shall be appointed for a two-year term. All terms thereafter shall be for four
years for regular members and two years for alternate members.
   D.   Should a vacancy occur during any appointee's term, whether such be a
regular or alternate member, said vacancy shall be filled by an appointment for
only the unexpired term then remaining.
§ 6-37. Appointment.
[Amended 3-27-2006 by Ord. No. 3-2006]
   All appointments to the Historic Preservation Commission shall be made by
the Mayor of the Town of Hammonton.
§ 6-38. Functions.
[Amended 3-27-2006 by Ord. No. 3-2006]
   A.   The Historic Preservation Commission shall have all of the functions as
enumerated in N.J.S.A. 40:55D-109.
   B.   In addition to said responsibilities as set forth in §
6-38A, the Historic Preservation Commission shall be expressly directed to make
recommendations to the Planning Board for the purpose of maintaining,
preserving and/or restoring those structures and areas that are historically or
architecturally significant within the Town of Hammonton and for making
recommendations for inclusion into the National Register of appropriate
structures and areas. The Planning Board shall have the right to amend any
recommendation before submission of the same to the Mayor and Council.
ARTICLE VI.
Water and Sewer Subcommittee
   
§ 6-39.   Former MUAC functions.
   
§ 6-40.   Water and Sewer Subcommittee.
   
§ 6-41.   MUAC references.
   
§ 6-42.   Formal action on water or sewer projects.
[Adopted 4-24-2006 by Ord. No. 5-2006 Editor's Note: This ordinance repealed
former Art. VI, Utilities Advisory Committee, adopted 4-13-1992 by Ord. No. 13-
1992. ]
§ 6-39. Former MUAC functions.
   All functions originally performed by the MUAC shall now be the
responsibility of Mayor and Council.
§ 6-40. Water and Sewer Subcommittee.
   The Mayor is hereby authorized to appoint a water and sewer subcommittee
consisting of the Mayor or his designee, and up to two members of Council to
review designated projects, and thereafter report its findings to the full
Mayor and Council for appropriate action.
§ 6-41. MUAC references.
   Any reference to the "MUAC" in Chapter 226, Sewers and Chapter 275, (Water),
or in any other portion of this Code, shall hereinafter be construed as making
reference to "Mayor and Council" or its duly appointed water and sewer
subcommittee.
§ 6-42. Formal action on water or sewer projects.
   No formal action may be taken with respect to any water or sewer project
except by Mayor and Council at an official public meeting.
CHAPTER 12.
CODE BOOKS
[HISTORY: Adopted by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton 3-
14-1994 by Ord. No. 6-1994. Amendments noted where applicable.]
   
§ 12-1.   Purpose.
   
§ 12-2.   Distribution.
   
§ 12-3.   [Reserved.]
   
§ 12-4.   Violations and penalties.
§ 12-1. Purpose.
   The ordinances and zoning laws of the Town of Hammonton have been codified
in books. These Code books are important to the elected officials, the
appointed officials and the citizenry because they represent the laws of the
Town of Hammonton. In order to ensure that individuals have an opportunity to
review the laws, and to ensure that all Code books are kept current, the Mayor
and Council have formulated a procedure which is set forth in this chapter as
to how the Code books will be distributed and how they will be collected.
§ 12-2. Distribution.
   Published online.
§ 12-3. [Reserved.]
§ 12-4. Violations and penalties.
   The town shall assess a penalty of $150 to anyone who fails to return the
Code book as per the requirements of this chapter.
CHAPTER 14.
COURT, MUNICIPAL
[HISTORY: Adopted by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton as
indicated in article histories. Amendments noted where applicable.]
ARTICLE I.
Court, Judge and Court Administrator (§ 14-1 — § 14-8)
ARTICLE II.
Prosecutor (§ 14-9 — § 14-13)
ARTICLE III.
Public Defender (§ 14-14 — § 14-18)
ARTICLE IV.
Application Fee for Public Defender Representation (§ 14-19 — § 14-22)
ARTICLE V.
Fees for Municipal Court Discovery (§ 14-23)
ARTICLE I.
Court, Judge and Court Administrator
   
§ 14-1.   Establishment.
   
§ 14-2.   Name.
   
§ 14-3.   Seal.
   
§ 14-4.   Appointment of Municipal Judge; term of office.
   
§ 14-5.   Compensation.
   
§ 14-6.   Powers, duties and jurisdiction.
   
§ 14-7.   Location; when Court held.
   
§ 14-8.   Municipal Court Administrator.
[Adopted 9-13-1971 by Ord. No. 10-1971 as Ch. 37 of the 1971 Code; amended in
its entirety 7-23-2001 by Ord. No. 26-2001]
§ 14-1. Establishment.
[Amended 1-27-2020 by Ord. No. 002-2020; 9-28-2020 by Ord. No. 011-2020; 8-23-
2021 by Ord. No. 013-2021; 5-24-2021 by Ord. 005-2021; 11-15-2021 by Ord. 19-
2021; 5-22-2023 by Ord. No. 009-2023]
A Joint Municipal Court is established, pursuant to the provisions of N.J.S.A.
2B:12-1, et. seq., as amended and supplemented, consisting of the Town of
Hammonton, Borough of Folsom, Egg Harbor City, Buena Vista Township.
Mullica Township, Hamilton Township and the City of Northfield. The Joint
Municipal Court with Folsom was created in accordance with an Agreement for a
Joint Municipal Court for the Municipalities of the Town of Hammonton and the
Borough of Folsom dated December 28, 2017, executed by the municipalities in
January of 2018, and First Addendum to the Agreement dated September 19, 2019,
fully executed on December 3, 2019 (the "Prior Folsom Agreements"), which Prior
Folsom Agreements were replaced in their entirety with the Agreement for Joint
Municipal Court for the Municipalities of the Town of Hammonton and the Borough
of Folsom dated June 28, 2021, fully executed by the municipalities on August
23, 2021, and First Addendum to the Agreement fully executed on December 14,
2021, and is subject to the terms thereof. The Joint Municipal Court with Egg
Harbor City was created in accordance with an Agreement for Joint Municipal
Court for the Municipalities of the Town of Hammonton and Egg Harbor City dated
January 2, 2020, and executed in January of 2020 (the "Prior EHC Agreement"),
which Prior EHC Agreement was replaced in its entirety with the Agreement for
Joint Municipal Court for the Municipalities of the Town of Hammonton and Egg
Harbor City dated June 28, 2021, fully executed by the municipalities on July
3, 2021, and is subject to the terms thereof. The Joint Municipal Court with
Buena Vista Township was created in accordance with an Agreement for Joint
Municipal Court for the Municipalities of the Town of Hammonton and Buena Vista
Township dated August 24, 2020 and executed in August 2020 (the "Prior BVT
Agreement"), which Prior BVT Agreement was replaced in its entirety with the
Agreement for Joint Municipal Court for the Municipalities of the Town of
Hammonton and Buena Vista Township dated June 28, 2021, fully executed by the
municipalities on August 23, 2021, and First Addendum to the Agreement fully
executed in December of 2021, and is subject to the terms thereof. The Joint
Municipal Court with Mullica Township was created in accordance with an
Agreement for Joint Municipal Court for the Municipalities of the Town of
Hammonton and Mullica Township dated October 7, 2021, and fully executed on
October 13, 2021, and is subject to the terms thereof. Hamilton Township
(Atlantic County) shall join the Joint Municipal Court of the Town of Hammonton
in accordance with an Agreement for a Joint Municipal Court for the
Municipalities of the Town of Hammonton and Hamilton Township dated April 5,
2023, and executed in May 2023. The City of Northfield shall join the Joint
Municipal Court of the Town of Hammonton in accordance with an Agreement for a
Joint Municipal Court for the Municipalities of the Town of Hammonton and City
of Northfield dated April 24, 2023 and executed in June 2023.
§ 14-2. Name.
   The name of the Municipal Court shall be the "Municipal Court of the Town of
Hammonton."
§ 14-3. Seal.
   The Municipal Court shall have a seal which shall bear the impression of the
name of the Court.
§ 14-4. Appointment of Municipal Judge; term of office.
   There shall be a Municipal Judge of the Municipal Court, who shall be
appointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the Town Council and who
shall serve for a term of three years from the date of his or her appointment
and until his or her successor is appointed and qualified.
§ 14-5. Compensation.
   The Municipal Judge shall receive such annual salary as may be prescribed by
the Council of the town, to be paid in the same manner as the salaries of other
municipal officers are paid, and which shall be in lieu of all fees, costs and
any other allowances whatsoever.
§ 14-6. Powers, duties and jurisdiction.
   The Municipal Court and the Municipal Judge thereof shall have, possess and
exercise all the functions, powers, duties and jurisdiction conferred by the
provisions of N.J.S.A. 2B:12-1 et seq., as amended and supplemented, or by any
other law.
§ 14-7. Location; when Court held.
   The Municipal Court shall be held in the Town Hall or such other public
place as may be designated by the Judge. The Municipal Judge shall sit at such
times as the business of the Court may require, subject to the rules applicable
to municipal courts.
§ 14-8. Municipal Court Administrator.
   A.   There shall be a Municipal Court Administrator, who shall be appointed
by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the Town Council who shall serve
for a term of one year from the date of appointment until a successor is
appointed and qualified.
   B.   The Municipal Court Administrator shall receive such annual salary as
provided for in the Salary Ordinance of the town, which salary shall be in lieu
of all fees, costs and any other allowances whatsoever. Editor's Note: The
Salary Ordinance is on file in the office of the Town Clerk/Administrator.
   C.   The Municipal Court Administrator shall perform such functions and
duties as shall be prescribed for such position by law, the rules applicable to
municipal courts and by the Municipal Judge.
ARTICLE II.
Prosecutor
   
§ 14-9.   Purpose.
   
§ 14-10.   Position created.
   
§ 14-11.   Term.
   
§ 14-12.   Appointment.
   
§ 14-13.   Salary.
[Adopted 1-24-1972 by Ord. No. 1-1972]
§ 14-9. Purpose.
   This article is enacted to create the position of Prosecutor of the
Hammonton Municipal Court pursuant to a mandate from the office of the
Administrative Director of the Courts of the State of New Jersey that such
official be provided for each Municipal Court for the year 1972.
§ 14-10. Position created.
   There is hereby created the position of Prosecutor of the Hammonton
Municipal Court, which official shall be in charge of prosecuting all
defendants in said Municipal Court and of representing the interests of the
people of the Town of Hammonton on all appeals from decisions of the Hammonton
Municipal Court with the various reviewing courts with jurisdiction over such
matters.
§ 14-11. Term.
   The office of the Prosecutor of the Hammonton Municipal Court shall bear a
term of one year, which term shall annually commence on January 1 of each given
year and terminate at 11:59 p.m. on December 31 of each given year, with the
holder of said office to serve until a successor is appointed and qualified.
Said one-year term commencing January 1 shall apply to all years subsequent to
the original appointment, which original appointment shall be effective
February 1, 1972, and which original term shall terminate at 11:59 p.m. on
December 31, 1972.
§ 14-12. Appointment.
   The Prosecutor of the Hammonton Municipal Court shall be appointed by the
Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton.
§ 14-13. Salary.
   The salary to be paid the Prosecutor of the Hammonton Municipal Court shall
be $4,500 per year.
ARTICLE III.
Public Defender
   
§ 14-14.   Purpose.
   
§ 14-15.   Duty to provide defense.
   
§ 14-16.   Appointment; term.
   
§ 14-17.   Payment of salary.
   
§ 14-18.   Certificate of insurance coverage.
[Adopted 1-25-1988 by Ord. No. 1-1988]
§ 14-14. Purpose.
   It is determined to be in the public interest and to promote the
administration of justice within the Town of Hammonton to establish an office
of the Public Defender in and for said town to represent indigents charged with
such crimes as the Municipal Judge determines mandate the provision of a legal
defendant without charge to the accused.
§ 14-15. Duty to provide defense.
   The Municipal Public Defender shall provide a defense for all indigents
requesting an attorney to represent them without charge where the Municipal
Judge determines that:
   A.   The accused cannot afford to retain private counsel; and
   B.   The gravamen of the offenses charged are sufficiently serious to
mandate that the accused should have counsel.
§ 14-16. Appointment; term.
   The Municipal Public Defender shall be appointed by a majority vote of the
Common Council of the Town of Hammonton at the annual reorganization meeting of
that governing body, and the term of the Municipal Public Defender shall be for
one year and shall expire on December 31 of each given year at 12:00 midnight.
§ 14-17. Payment of salary.
   The Municipal Public Defender shall be paid on a yearly salary basis, with
the amount and manner of payment subject to negotiation and agreement between
the Common Council and the selected Public Defender, and the contract for the
position shall be awarded without competitive bidding as a professional service
under the provisions of the Local Public Contracts Law (N.J.S.A. 40A:11-1 et
seq.).
§ 14-18. Certificate of insurance coverage.
   The individual selected as the Municipal Public Defender shall be required
to provide a certificate of insurance from an insurance carrier authorized to
do business in the State of New Jersey and to provide legal errors and
omissions coverage, and said certificate shall indicate that the minimum errors
and omissions insurance coverage of $1,000,000 has been obtained.
ARTICLE IV.
Application Fee for Public Defender Representation
   
§ 14-19.   Purpose; statutory authority.
   
§ 14-20.   Fee required.
   
§ 14-21.   Schedule of fees; waiver.
   
§ 14-22.   Accumulation of fees.
[Adopted 4-25-1994 by Ord. No. 9-1994]
§ 14-19. Purpose; statutory authority.
   N.J.S.A. 2B:24-1 sets forth the creation of a Municipal Public Defender that
can be retained by a municipality on a full-time, part-time or per-case basis.
The statute also allows a municipality to require any person applying for
representation by the Municipal Public Defender to pay an application fee. It
is the purpose of this article to create the application fee, to set a limit on
the amount that can be charged and to give the court discretion in whether or
not that fee should be waived.
§ 14-20. Fee required.
[Amended 5-11-1998 by Ord. No. 21-1998]
   The Town of Hammonton hereby requires any person applying for representation
by the Municipal Public Defender to pay an application fee of not more than
$100. This fee should be paid either upon application or upon the direction of
the Municipal Court Judge. The fee shall be required to be paid whether or not
any defendant who is approved for representation by the Municipal Public
Defender is acquitted or convicted. For purposes of this article, a conviction
shall mean any finding of guilt, either through trial, plea or plea bargain. A
defendant who applies for the Public Defender shall only be required to pay an
application fee for all listed charges on the application for representation.
An application fee may be charged for each time a defendant applies for the
Public Defender.
§ 14-21. Schedule of fees; waiver.
   It shall be the duty of the Municipal Court Judge to create a schedule for
purposes of determining the amount of application fee to be paid by any
defendant. The application fee shall be predicated upon a sliding scale
proportionate to that portion of any other guidelines which the Municipal Court
uses in order to determine if a defendant qualifies for the Municipal Public
Defender. It is the desire and purpose of the Town of Hammonton to ensure that
indigent defendants receive proper representation and that there be a universal
application of the fee schedule to all indigent defendants predicated upon
their respective income. Nothing in this article shall prohibit the Municipal
Court Judge in his or her discretion to waive the application fee for any
defendant.
§ 14-22. Accumulation of fees.
   The Municipal Court Administrator shall collect all application fees and
turn them over to the Town Treasurer. The Town Treasurer shall be responsible
to deposit all fees in the general treasury and keep an accounting of all fees
collected pursuant to this article.
ARTICLE V.
Fees for Municipal Court Discovery
   
§ 14-23.   Schedule of fees.
[Adopted 12-20-2004 by Ord. No. 30-2004]
§ 14-23. Schedule of fees.
   The following fee schedule is hereby established for Municipal Court
discovery.
   A.   All requests for discovery in matters pending in the Town of Hammonton
Municipal Court shall be submitted through the Municipal Prosecutor.
   B.   All fees for discovery for Hammonton Municipal Court shall be in
accordance with OPRA and/or N.J. Court Rules. [Amended 3-18-2013 by Ord. No.
004-2013]
   C.   Where the discovery must be obtained from an entity other than the Town
of Hammonton, e.g., another police department, the actual costs paid to the
other entity shall be paid by the requestor.
CHAPTER 16.
ELECTION DISTRICTS
[HISTORY: Adopted by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton 9-
13-1971 by Ord. No. 10-1971 as Ch. 20 of the 1971 Code; amended in its entirety
12-18-2006 by Ord. No. 21-2006. Subsequent amendments noted where applicable.]
   
§ 16-1.   (Reserved)
   
§ 16-2.   Districts described and defined.
§ 16-1. (Reserved)
§ 16-2. Districts described and defined.
[Amended 5-14-2012 by Ord. No. 12-2012]
   The said districts be and the same are hereby described and defined as
follows:
District 1
Beginning at the SE corner of the Town of Hammonton, Atlantic County at the
intersection of the Borough of Folsom and the Twp. of Hamilton, Atlantic County
shared borders:
   Thence, NW following along the Borough of Folsom and the Town of Hammonton,
Atlantic County shared borders to a point where said border intersects with the
physical centerline of 12th Street. (Rt. 54);
   Thence, NE following the physical centerline of 12th St. (Rt. 54) crossing
the right of way of the Atlantic City Expressway (SJTA) to its point of
intersection with the physical centerline of Grand St.;
   Thence, SE along the physical centerline of Grand St., to its point of
intersection with the physical centerline of 11th St.;
   Thence, NE along the physical centerline of 11th St., to its point of
intersection with the physical centerline of the New Jersey Transit Atlantic
City Line property;
   Proceed, SE, following along the physical centerline of the NJ Transit
Atlantic City Line property, to a point where said border intersects with the
Twp. of Mullica and the Town of Hammonton, Atlantic County shared border;
   Continue SW following along the Twp. of Mullica and the Town of Hammonton,
Atlantic Co. shared border crossing the right of way of the A.C. Expressway
(SJTA) to a point at the SE corner of the Town of Hammonton, Atlantic Co. on
the shared border with the Borough of Folsom and the Twp. of Hamilton, Atlantic
Co. which is also the point of beginning.
District 2
Beginning at a point in the Borough of Folsom and the Town of Hammonton,
Atlantic Co. shared borders where said border intersects with the physical
centerline of 12th St. (Rt. 54);
   Thence, NW following the Borough of Folsom, Atlantic Co. shared border,
crossing the right of way of Mayslanding Blue Anchor Rd., (Co. Rt. 561 Spur) to
a point where said border intersects with the Twp. of Winslow, Camden County
and Town of Hammonton, Atlantic Co. shared border;
   Proceed NE along the Twp. of Winslow, Camden Co. and Town of Hammonton,
Atlantic Co. shared border, crossing the right of way of the Atlantic City
Expressway (SJTA) then crossing the right of way of the S. Egg Harbor Rd. (Co.
Rt. 561) to a point where said border intersects with the physical centerline
of NJ Transit Atlantic City Line property;
   Thence, SE along the physical centerline of the NJ Transit Atlantic City
Line property, to its point of intersection with the physical centerline of
13th St. (Co. Rt. 678);
   Continue SW along the physical centerline of 13th St. (Co. Rt. 678) to its
point of intersection with the physical centerline of Messina Ave.;
   Thence SE following along the physical centerline of Messina Ave., to a
point where said border intersects with the physical centerline of Pleasant
St.;
   Thence SW following along the physical centerline of Pleasant St. to a point
where said border intersects with the physical centerline of Grand St.;
   Thence SE following along the physical centerline of Grant St. to a point
where said border intersects with the physical centerline of right of way of
12th St. (Rt. 54);
   Thence SW following along the physical centerline of 12th St. (Rt. 54)
crossing the right of way of Atlantic City Expressway (SJTA) to a point where
said border intersects with a point in the Borough of Folsom and the Town of
Hammonton, Atlantic Co. shared borders which is also the point of beginning.
District 3
Beginning at a point where the physical centerline of 12th St. (Rt. 54) is
intersected by the physical centerline of 4th St.;
   Thence NW following the physical centerline of 4th St. to a point where said
border intersects with the physical centerline of Fairview Ave. (Co. Rt. 678);
   Proceed SW along the physical centerline of the Fairview Ave. (Co. Rt. 678)
to a point where said border intersects with the physical centerline of 3rd St.
(Co. Rt. 724);
   Continue North then NW along the physical centerline of 3rd St./Wiltsey's
Mill Rd. (Co. Rt. 724) to its point of intersection with the Town of Hammonton,
Atlantic County and Twp. of Winslow Camden County shared border;
   Proceed NE following along the Town of Hammonton Atlantic Co. and Twp. of
Winslow Camden Co. shared border to its point of intersection with the Town of
Hammonton, Atlantic Co. and Twp. of Water Camden Co. and Twp. of Shamong
Burling Co. shared border;
   Thence SE following along the Town of Hammonton Atlantic Co. and Twp. of
Shamong Burling Co. shared border to a point where said border intersects with
the physical centerline of Trenton Rd. (Rt. 206);
   Proceed South following along the physical centerline of Trenton Rd. (Rt.
206) crossing the right of way of Waterford Rd. (Co. Rt. 536) then crossing the
right of way of Middle Rd. (Co. Rt. 613) to a point where said border
intersects with the physical centerline of White Horse Pike (Rt. 30);
   Thence NW following along the physical centerline of White Horse Pike (Rt.
30) to its point of intersection with the physical centerline of 12th St. (Rt.
54);
   Thence SW following along the physical centerline of 12th St. (Rt. 54) to
its point of intersection with the physical centerline of 4th St., which is
also the point of beginning.
District 4
Beginning at a point where the Town of Hammonton and the Twp. of Mullica,
Atlantic Co. shared borders is intersected by the physical centerline of Sewell
Ave.;
   Thence NW following along the physical centerline of Sewell Ave., to a point
where said border intersects with the physical centerline of the WHP (Rt. 30);
   Proceed North then NW following along the physical centerline of the WHP
(Rt. 30) to its point of intersection with the physical centerline of Trenton
Rd. (Rt. 206);
   Thence, North following along the physical centerline of Trenton Rd. (Rt.
206) crossing the right of way of Middle Rd. (Co. Rt. 613) then crossing the
right of way of Waterford Rd., (Co. Rt. 536) to its point of intersection with
the Town of Hammonton, Atlantic Co. and Twp. of Shamong Burling Co. border;
   Thence SE following along the Town of Hammonton Atlantic Co. and Twp. of
Shamong Burlington Co. shared border to its point of intersection with the
centerline of the Mullica River (a waterway) which is also the Twp. of
Washington Burling Co. and the Twp. of Mullica Atlantic Co. shared border;
   Thence SW following along the Town of Hammonton and Twp. of Mullica Atlantic
Co. shared border crossing the right of way of Columbia Rd. (Co. Rt. 693) then
crossing the right of way of Pleasant Mills Rd. (Co. Rt. 542) to its point of
intersection with the physical centerline of Sewell Ave., which is also the
point of beginning.
District 5
Beginning at a point where the Town of Hammonton and the Twp. of Mullica,
Atlantic Co. shared borders is intersected by the physical centerline of the NJ
Transit Atlantic City Line property;
   Thence NW following along the physical centerline of the NJ Transit Atlantic
City Line property, to a point where said border intersects with the physical
centerline of 11th St.;
   Then NE following along the physical centerline of the 11th St. to its point
of intersection with the physical centerline of Egg Harbor Rd. (Co. Rt. 561);
   Thence NW following along the physical centerline of Egg Harbor Rd. (Co. Rt.
561) to its point of intersection with the physical centerline of Grape St.;
   Thence NE following along the physical centerline of Grape St. to its point
of intersection with the physical centerline of Valley Ave.;
   Thence SE following along the physical centerline of Valley Ave. to its
point of intersection with the physical centerline of Broadway (Co. Rt. 680);
   Thence South following along the physical centerline of Broadway (Co. Rt.
680) to its point of intersection with the physical centerline of Greenwood
Dr.;
   Thence West following along the physical centerline of Greenwood Dr., to its
point of intersection with the physical centerline of Allen Lane;
   Thence South following along the physical centerline of Allen Lane to its
point of intersection with the physical centerline of Central Ave. (Co. Rt.
542);
   Thence East following along the physical centerline of Central Ave. (Co. Rt.
542) to its point of intersection with the physical centerline of the WHP (Rt.
30);
   Thence South following along the physical centerline of the WHP (Rt. 30) to
its point of intersection with the physical centerline of Sewell Ave.;
   Thence East following along the physical centerline of Sewell Ave. to its
point of intersection with the Town of Hammonton and the Twp. of Mullica
Atlantic Co. shared borders;
   Thence SW following along the Town of Hammonton and the Twp. of Mullica
Atlantic Co. shared borders to its point of intersection with the physical
centerline of the NJ Transit Atlantic City Line property which is also the
point of beginning.
District 6
Beginning at a point where the physical centerline of 12th St. (Rt. 54) is
intersected by the physical centerline of Grand St.;
   Thence NW following along the physical centerline of Grand St., to a point
where said border intersects with the physical centerline of Pleasant St.;
   Thence NE following along the physical centerline of the Pleasant St., to
its point of intersection with the physical centerline of Messina Ave.;
   Thence NW following along the physical centerline of Messina Ave. to its
point of intersection with the physical centerline of 13th St. (Co. Rt. 678);
   Thence NE following along the physical centerline of 13th St. (Co. Rt. 678)
to its point of intersection with the physical centerline of the NJ Transit
Atlantic City Line property;
   Thence NW following along the physical centerline of the NJ Transit Atlantic
City Line property, to its point of intersection with the Town of Hammonton,
Atlantic Co. and the Twp. of Winslow, Camden Co. shared border;
   Thence NE following along the Town of Hammonton Atlantic Co. and the Twp. of
Winslow Camden Co. shared border, to its point of intersection with the
physical centerline of 3rd St./Wilsey Mill Rd. (Co. Rt. 724);
   Then South following along the physical centerline of 3rd St./Wilsey Mill
Rd. (Co. Rt. 724) to its point of intersection with the physical centerline of
3rd St. (Co. Rt. 724);
   Thence SE following along the physical centerline of 3rd St. (Co. Rt. 724)
to its point of intersection with the physical centerline of Fairview Ave. (Co.
Rt. 678);
   Thence NE following along the physical centerline of Fairview Ave. (Co. Rt.
678) to its point of intersection with the physical centerline of 4th St.;
   Thence SE following along the physical centerline of 4th St. to its point of
intersection with the physical centerline of 12th St. (Rt. 54);
   Thence SW following along the physical centerline of 12th St. (Rt. 54) to
its point of intersection with the physical centerline of Grand St., which is
also the point of beginning.
District 7
Beginning at the point where the physical centerline of 11th St. is intersected
by the physical centerline of Grant St.;
   Thence, NW following along the physical centerline of Grand St., to a point
where said border intersects with the physical centerline of 12th St. (Rt. 54);
   Thence, NE following along the physical centerline of the 12th St. (Rt. 54/
Bellevue Ave.), to its point of intersection with the physical centerline of
the White Horse Pike (Rt. 54/Bellevue Ave.);
   Thence, SE following along the physical centerline of the White Horse Pike
(Rt. 30) to its point of intersection with the physical centerline of Central
Ave. (Co. Rt. 542);
   Thence, West, following along the physical centerline of Central Ave. (Co.
Rt. 542), to its point of intersection with the physical centerline of Allen
Lane;
   Thence, North, following along the physical centerline of Allen Lane, to its
point of intersection with the physical centerline of Greenwood Dr.;
   Thence, West, following along the physical centerline of Greenwood Dr. to
its point of intersection with the physical centerline of Broadway (Co. Rt.
680);
   Thence, North, following along the physical centerline of Broadway (Co. Rt.
680) to its point of intersection with the physical centerline of Valley Ave.;
   Thence, NW following along the physical centerline of Valley Ave. to its
point of intersection with the physical centerline of Grape St.;
   Thence, SW following along the physical centerline of Grape St. to its point
of intersection with the physical centerline of Egg Harbor Rd. (Co. Rt. 561);
   Thence, SE following along the physical centerline of Egg Harbor Rd. (Co.
Rt. 561) to its point of intersection with the physical centerline of 11th St.;
   Thence, SW following along the physical centerline of 11th St. to its point
of intersection with the physical centerline of Grand St., which is also the
point of beginning.
CHAPTER 19.
(RESERVED)
[Former Ch. 19, Employee Handbook, adopted 12-9-1996 by Ord. No. 16-1996, as
amended, was removed from the Code at the request of the Town. The current
Employee Handbook is on file in the Town offices.]
CHAPTER 22.
ETHICS, CODE OF
[HISTORY: Adopted by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton 8-
26-1991 by Ord. No. 17-1991. Amendments noted where applicable.]
   
§ 22-1.   Title.
   
§ 22-2.   Findings.
   
§ 22-3.   Purpose and authority.
   
§ 22-4.   Definitions.
   
§ 22-5.   Ethical standards.
   
§ 22-6.   Financial disclosure statements.
   
§ 22-7.   Ethical Standards Board.
   
§ 22-8.   Facilities and staff.
   
§ 22-9.   Adoption of a Code of Ethics.
   
§ 22-10.   Powers of Ethical Standards Board.
   
§ 22-11.   Advisory opinions.
   
§ 22-12.   Complaints.
   
§ 22-13.   Enforcement; violations and penalties.
   
§ 22-14.   Preservation of records.
GENERAL REFERENCES
   Officers and employees — See
Ch. 35.
§ 22-1. Title.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the "Town of Hammonton Code
of Ethics."
§ 22-2. Findings.
   The Mayor and Council of the Town of Hammonton finds and declares that:
   A.   Public office and employment are a public trust.
   B.   The vitality and stability of representative democracy depend upon the
public's confidence in the integrity of its elected and appointed
representatives.
   C.   Whenever the public perceives a conflict between the private interest
and the public duties of a government officer or employees, that confidence is
imperiled.
   D.   Governments have the duty both to provide their citizens with standards
by which they may determine whether public duties are being faithfully
performed and to apprise their officers and employees of the behavior which is
expected of them while conducting their public duties.
§ 22-3. Purpose and authority.
   A.   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide a method of assuring that
standards of ethical conduct and financial disclosure requirements for officers
and employees of the Town of Hammonton shall be clear, consistent, uniform in
their application and enforceable and to provide those officers or employees
with advice and information concerning possible conflicts of interest which
might arise in the conduct of their public duties.
   B.   It is the further purpose of this chapter to implement the provision of
the Local Government Ethics Law, P.L. 1991, c. 29 (N.J.S.A. 40A:9-22.1 et
seq.).
   C.   This chapter is enacted under the authority of the Local Government
Ethics Law, P.L. 1991, c. 29 (N.J.S.A 40A:9-22.1 et seq.) and under the further
authority granted to the Town of Hammonton under the provision of Titles 40 and
40A of the New Jersey Statutes.
§ 22-4. Definitions.
   As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
indicated:
   AGENCY
   Any agency, board, governing body, including the chief, superintendent,
department head, office, commission or other instrumentality within the Town of
Hammonton, and independent local authority created by or appointed under the
authority of the Town of Hammonton which performs functions other than of a
purely advisory nature.
   BUSINESS ORGANIZATION
   Any corporation, partnership, firm, enterprise, franchise, association,
trust, sole proprietorship, union or other legal entity.
   EMPLOYEE
   Any person, whether compensated or not, whether part-time or full-time,
employed by or serving on an agency or board who is not a local government
officer.
   INTEREST
   Ownership or control of more than 10% of the profits, assets or stock of a
business organization, but shall not include the control of assets in a
nonunion profit entity or labor union.
   MEMBER OF IMMEDIATE FAMILY
   The spouse or dependent child of an officer or employee residing in the same
household.
   OFFICER Editor's Note: Amended at time of adoption of Code (see
Ch. 1, General Provisions, Art. I).
   Any person, whether compensated or not, whether part-time or full-time, who
is one of the following:
   A.   Mayor and members of Council.
   B.   Town Clerk/Administrator.
   C.   Deputy Town Clerk.
   D.   Chief Financial Officer.
   E.   Construction Code Official.
   F.   Superintendent of Sewers.
   G.   Superintendent of Water.
   H.   Chief of Police.
   I.   Captain, Police Department.
   J.   Tax Assessor.
   K.   Town Attorney.
   L.   Town Engineer.
   M.   Town Planning Consultant.
   N.   Town Auditor.
   O.   Municipal Judge.
   P.   Town Prosecutor.
   Q.   Town Public Defender.
   R.   Planning Board member.
   S.   Planning Board Attorney.
   T.   Zoning Board of Adjustment member.
   U.   Zoning Board of Adjustment Attorney.
   V.   Local Assistance Board member.
   W.   Director of Public Assistance.
   X.   Park Commission member.
   Y.   Municipal Utilities Authority member.
   Z.   Fire Chief.
   AA.   Assistant Fire Chief.
   BB.   Rent Control Board member.
   CC.   Municipal Court Administrator.
   DD.   Municipal Court Deputy Administrator.
   EE.   Any other person who is a managerial executive or confidential
employee, as defined in Section 3 of the New Jersey Employer - Employee
Relations Act (N.J.S.A. 34:13A-3) of the Town of Hammonton or of any agency
created under the authority of or appointed by the Town of Hammonton.
   OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE
   An officer or employee of the Town of Hammonton or any agency under the
authority of or appointed by the Town of Hammonton.
§ 22-5. Ethical standards.
   Officers and employees of the Town of Hammonton shall comply with the
following provisions:
   A.   No officer or employee of the Town of Hammonton or member of his or her
immediate family shall have an interest in a business organization or engage in
any business, transaction or professional activity which is in substantial
conflict with the proper discharge of his or her duties in the public interest.
   B.   No officer or employee shall use or attempt to use his or her official
position to secure unwarranted privileges or advantages for himself or herself
or others.
   C.   No officer or employee shall act in his or her official capacity in any
matter where he or she, a member of his or her immediate family or any business
organization in which he or she has an interest has a direct or indirect
financial or personal involvement that might reasonably be expected to impair
his or her objectivity or independence of judgment.
   D.   No officer or employee shall undertake any employment or service,
whether compensated or not, which might reasonably be expected to prejudice his
or her independence of judgment in the exercise of his or her official duties.
   E.   No officer or employee, member of his or her immediate family or any
business organization in which he or she has an interest shall solicit or
accept any gift, favor, political contribution, service, promise of future
employment or other thing of value based upon an understanding that the gift,
favor, loan, contribution, service, promise or other thing of value was given
or offered for the purpose of influencing him or her, directly or indirectly,
in the discharge of his or her official duties. This provision shall not apply
to the solicitation or acceptance of contributions to the campaign of an
announced candidate for elective public office if the officer has no knowledge
or reason to believe that the campaign contribution, if accepted, was given
with the intent to influence the officer in the discharge of his or her
official duties.
   F.   No officer or employee shall use or allow to be used his or her public
office or employment or any information not generally available to the members
of the public which he or she receives or acquires in the course of and by
reason of his or her office or employment for the purpose of securing financial
gain for himself or herself, any member of his or her immediate family or any
business organization with which he or she is associated.
   G.   No officer or employee or any business organization in which he or she
has an interest shall represent any person or party other than the town in
connection with any cause, proceeding, application or other matter pending
before any agency of the Town of Hammonton. This provision shall not be deemed
to prohibit an employee from representing another employee where the
representation is within the context of official labor union or similarly
representational responsibilities, nor shall this provision be applicable to
the Town Public Defender with respect to representation of defendants in the
Municipal Court.
   H.   No officer shall be deemed in conflict with these provisions if, by
reason of his or her participation in the enactment of any ordinance,
resolution or other matter required to be voted upon or which is subject to
executive approval or veto, no material or monetary gain accrues to him or her
as a member of any business profession, occupation or group to any greater
extent than any gain could reasonably be expected to accrue to any other member
of such business, profession, occupation or group.
   I.   No elected officer shall be prohibited from making an inquiry for
information on behalf of a constituent if no fee, reward or other thing of
value is promised to, given to or accepted by the officer or a member of his or
her immediate family, whether directly or indirectly, in return therefor.
   J.   Nothing shall prohibit any officer or employee of the Town of Hammonton
or members of his or her immediate family from representing himself, herself or
themselves in a negotiation or proceeding concerning his, her or their own
interest.
   K.   No officer or employee elected or appointed in the town shall, without
receiving formal written authorization from the appropriate person or body,
disclose any confidential information concerning any other officer or employee
or any other person or any property or governmental affairs of the town.
   L.   No officer or employee shall approve or disapprove or in any way
recommend the payment of any bill, voucher or indebtedness owed or allegedly
owed by the town in which he or she has a direct or indirect personal,
pecuniary or private interest.
   M.   No officer or employee elected or appointed in the town shall request,
use or permit the use of any public property, vehicle, equipment, labor or
service for personal convenience or the private advantage of himself, herself
or any other person. This prohibition shall not be deemed to prohibit an
official or employee from requesting, using or permitting the use of such
public property, vehicle, equipment, material, labor or service which it is the
general practice to make available to the public at large or which is provided
as a matter of stated public policy for the use of officials and employees in
the conduct of official business. Editor's Note: See
Ch. 274, Vehicles, Municipally Owned.
§ 22-6. Financial disclosure statements.
   A.   Officers of the town shall annually file a financial disclosure
statement. All financial disclosure statements shall include the following
information, which shall specify, where applicable, the name and address of
each source and the officer's job title:
      (1)   Each source of income, earned or unearned, exceeding $2,000
received by the officer or a member of his or her immediate family during the
preceding calendar year. Individual client fees, customer receipts or
commission on transactions received through a business organization need not be
separately reported as sources of income. If a publicly traded security is the
source of income, the security need not be reported unless the local government
officer or member of his or her immediate family has an interest in the
business organization.
      (2)   Each source of fees and honorariums having an aggregated amount
exceeding $250 from any single source for personal appearances, speeches or
writings received by the local government officer or a member of his or her
immediate family during the preceding calendar year.
      (3)   Each source of gifts, reimbursements or prepaid expenses having an
aggregate value exceeding $400 from any single source, excluding relatives,
received by the local government officer or member of his or her immediate
family during the preceding calendar year.
      (4)   The name and address of all business organizations in which the
local government officer or a member of his or her immediate family had an
interest during the preceding calendar year.
      (5)   The address and brief description of all real property in the state
in which the local government officer or member of his or her immediate family
held an interest during the preceding calendar year.
   B.   The Town of Hammonton Ethical Standards Board shall prescribe a
financial disclosure statement form for filing purposes. If a financial
disclosure statement form has been promulgated by the New Jersey Local Finance
Board in accordance with the New Jersey Local Government Ethics Law (N.J.S.A.
40A:9-22.1 et seq.) then that form shall be used. The Town Clerk/Administrator
shall make the forms available to the officers and employees required to file a
financial disclosure statement.
   C.   The original statement shall be filed with the Town Clerk/Administrator
within 90 days after the effective date of the New Jersey Local Government
Ethics Law. All subsequent statements shall be filed on or before April 30 of
each year. A copy of the statement shall be filed with the Town of Hammonton
Ethical Standards Board.
   D.   All financial disclosure statements filed shall be public records.
§ 22-7. Ethical Standards Board.
   A.   The Town of Hammonton Ethical Standards Board shall be composed of six
individuals who are residents of the Town of Hammonton and are at least 18
years old at the time of the appointment. The members shall be appointed by the
Mayor with the consent and approval of Council. No more than three members of
the Board shall be of the same political party.
[Amended 7-27-1992 by Ord. No. 27-1992]
   B.   The members of the Town of Hammonton Ethical Standards Board shall
annually elect a Chairperson from among the membership.
   C.   The members shall serve for a term of five years, except that, of the
members initially appointed, two shall serve five years, two shall serve four
years and two shall serve three years. Each member shall serve until his or her
successor has been appointed and qualified. Any vacancy occurring in the
membership of the Board shall be filled in the same manner as the original
appointment for the unexpired term.
[Amended 7-27-1992 by Ord. No. 27-1992]
   D.   Members of the Board shall serve without compensation and shall be
reimbursed for necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties
under this chapter.
   E.   All hearings required pursuant to this chapter shall be conducted in
conformity with the rules and procedures, insofar as they may be applicable,
provided for hearings by a state agency in a contested case under the
Administrative Procedure Act, N.J.S.A. 52:14B-1 et seq.
   F.   In the event that a hearing is to be held, the officer or employee
charged with violation of this chapter shall be accorded due process of law,
including but not limited to the following:
      (1)   Right to counsel.
      (2)   Right to prehearing discover.
      (3)   Right to take sworn oral and written testimony from any person.
      (4)   Reasonable notice of hearing.
      (5)   Right to subpoena persons and documents.
      (6)   Right to make a stenographic record of the hearing.
      (7)   Right of examination and cross-examination.
§ 22-8. Facilities and staff.
   A.   The Town Clerk/Administrator shall provide the Town of Hammonton
Ethical Standards Board with the facilities needed for the conduct of its
business and the preservation of its records and shall supply equipment and
supplies as may be necessary and as may be provided for in the annual municipal
budget.
   B.   All necessary expenses incurred by the Town of Hammonton Ethical
Standards Board and its members shall be paid, upon certification of the
Chairperson of the Board, by the Town Treasurer within the limits of the funds
appropriated in the annual budget or by emergency appropriations for those
purposes.
   C.   The Town of Hammonton Ethical Standards Board may request and receive
assistance from town officers and employees, including the Town Clerk/
Administrator and the Town Attorney, and may appoint employees, including
independent counsel, and clerical staff as are necessary to carry out the
provisions of this chapter within the limits of funds appropriated by the Town
Council for those purposes in the annual budget.
§ 22-9. Adoption of a Code of Ethics.
Editor's Note: Amended at time of adoption of Code (see
Ch. 1, General Provisions, Art. I).
   A.   Within 15 days following the promulgation thereof, the Code of Ethics
and a notice of the date of the public hearing to be held on the Code of Ethics
shall be published in the newspaper designated for the publication of official
notices for the town and shall be distributed to the Town Clerk/Administrator
for circulation among the officers and employees serving the town.
   B.   The Town of Hammonton Ethical Standards Board shall hold a public
hearing on the Code of Ethics not less than 30 days following its promulgation
at which any officer or employee of the town and any other person wishing to be
heard shall be permitted to testify.
   C.   As a result of the hearing, the Board may amend or supplement the Code
of Ethics as it deems necessary.
   D.   If the Commission fails to act within 60 days of submission, the Code
of Ethics shall be deemed approved.
   E.   A Code of Ethics requiring approval by the New Jersey Local Finance
Board shall take effect 60 days after approval by the Commission.
   F.   The Board shall forward a copy of the Code of Ethics to the Town Clerk/
Administrator and shall make copies available to officers and employees serving
the town.
§ 22-10. Powers of Ethical Standards Board.
   The Town of Hammonton Ethical Standards Board shall have the following
powers:
   A.   To initiate, receive, hear and review complaints and hold hearings with
regard to possible violation of the Municipal Code of Ethics or financial
disclosure requirements by local government officers or employees serving the
town.
   B.   To issue subpoenas for the production of documents and the attendance
of witnesses with respect to its investigation of any complaint or to the
holding of a hearing.
   C.   To forward the County Prosecutor or the Attorney General or other
governmental body any information concerning violation of the Code of Ethics or
financial disclosure requirements of officers or employees serving the town
which may warrant the institution of other legal proceedings by the Attorney
General.
   D.   To render advisory opinions to local officers or employees serving the
town as to whether a given set of facts and circumstances would constitute a
violation of any provision of the Code of Ethics or financial disclosure
requirements.
   E.   To enforce the provisions of the Code of Ethics and financial
disclosure requirements with regard to officers or employees serving the town
and to impose penalties for the violation thereof as are authorized by this
chapter.
   F.   To adopt rules and regulations and to do other things as are necessary
to implement the purposes of this chapter.
§ 22-11. Advisory opinions.
   A.   An officer or employee of the Town of Hammonton may request and obtain
from the Town of Hammonton Ethical Standards Board an advisory opinion as to
whether any proposed activity or conduct would, in its opinion, constitute a
violation of the Code of Ethics or any financial disclosure requirements.
   B.   Advisory opinions shall not be made public, except when the Board, by
the vote of 2/3 of all of its members, directs that the opinion be made public.
   C.   Public advisory opinion shall not disclose the name of the officer or
employee unless the Board, in directing that the opinion be made public, so
determines.
§ 22-12. Complaints.
   A.   The Town of Hammonton Ethical Standards Board, upon receipt of a signed
written complaint by any person alleging that the conduct of any officer or
employee of the Town of Hammonton serving in the town is in conflict with the
Code of Ethics or financial disclosure requirements, shall acknowledge receipt
of the complaint within 30 days of receipt and initiate an investigation
concerning the facts and circumstances set forth in the complaint.
   B.   The Board shall make a determination as to whether the complaint is
within its jurisdiction or frivolous or without any reasonable factual basis.
   C.   If the Board shall conclude that the complaint is within its
jurisdiction or frivolous or without any reasonable factual basis.
   D.   If the Board shall conclude that the complaint is within its
jurisdiction and has at least a minimal factual basis, the Board shall notify
the officer or employee of the Town of Hammonton against whom the complaint was
filed of the nature of the complaint and the facts and circumstances set forth
therein.
   E.   The officer or employee shall have the opportunity to present the Board
with any statement or information concerning the complaint which he or she
wishes.
   F.   If the Board determines that a reasonable doubt exists as to whether
the officer or employee of the Town of Hammonton is in conflict with the
Municipal Code of Ethics or any financial disclosure requirements, the Board
shall conduct a hearing concerning the possible violation and any other facts
and circumstances which may have come to the attention of the Board with
respect to the conduct of the officer or employee.
   G.   The Board shall render a decision as to whether the conduct of the
officer or employee is in conflict with the Code of Ethics or any financial
disclosure requirements. This decision shall be made by no less than 2/3 of all
members of the Board.
   H.   If the Board determines that the officer or employee is in conflict
with the code or any financial disclosure requirements, it may impose any
penalties which it believes appropriate, within the limits of this chapter.
§ 22-13. Enforcement; violations and penalties.
   A.   An appointed officer or employee of the Town of Hammonton found guilty
by the Town of Hammonton Ethical Standards Board of the violation of any
provision of this chapter or of any Code of Ethics in effect pursuant to this
chapter shall be subject to one or more of the following: a fine of not more
than $1,000, imprisonment for a period not to exceed 90 days or a period of
community service not to exceed 90 days, which penalty may be collected in a
summary proceeding pursuant to the Penalty Enforcement Law, N.J.S.A. 2A:58-1.
The Town of Hammonton Ethical Standards Board shall report its findings to the
officer or agency having the power of removal or discipline of the appointed
officer or employee and may recommend that further disciplinary action be
taken.
   B.   An elected officer or employee of the Town of Hammonton found guilty by
the Town of Hammonton Ethical Standards Board of the violation of any provision
of this chapter or of any Code of Ethics in effect pursuant to this chapter
shall be subject to one or more of the following: a fine of not more than
$1,000, imprisonment for a period not to exceed 90 days or a period of
community service not to exceed 90 days, which penalty may be collected in a
summary proceeding pursuant to the Penalty Enforcement Law, N.J.S.A. 2A:58-1.
   C.   The findings by the Town of Hammonton Ethical Standards Board that an
appointed officer or employee of the Town of Hammonton is guilty of the
violation of the provisions of this chapter or of any Code of Ethics in effect
pursuant to this chapter shall be sufficient cause for his or her removal,
suspension or demotion or disciplinary action by the officer or agency having
the power of removal or discipline. When a person who is in the career service
is found to have violated the provisions of this chapter or any Code of Ethics
in effect pursuant to this chapter, the procedure leading to removal,
suspension, demotion or other disciplinary action shall be governed by any
applicable procedures of Title 11A of the New Jersey statutes and the rules
promulgated pursuant thereto.
§ 22-14. Preservation of records.
   All statements, complaints, requests or other written materials filed
pursuant to this chapter and any rulings, opinions, judgments, transcripts or
other official papers prepared pursuant to this chapter shall be preserved for
a period of five years from the date of filing or preparation, as the case may
be.
CHAPTER 25.
FIRE DEPARTMENT
[HISTORY: Adopted by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton as
indicated in article histories. Amendments noted where applicable.]
ARTICLE I.
Control and Operating Provisions
   
§ 25-1.   Composition of Fire Department.
   
§ 25-2.   Officers of the Fire Department.  
   
§ 25-3.   Powers and duties of Fire Chief and Assistant Fire Chiefs.
   
§ 25-4.   Minimum and maximum age of members.
   
§ 25-5.   No right to membership.
   
§ 25-6.   Membership.
   
§ 25-7   Supervision and control of the Fire Department and Hammonton Volunteer
Fire Companies.
   
§ 25-8   Discipline, suspension and removal of members.
   
§ 25-9   Discipline by Hammonton Volunteer Fire Companies.
   
§ 25-10   Limitation on discipline by Hammonton Volunteer Fire Companies.
ARTICLE II.
Maintenance of Operation
   
§ 25-11.   Clothing allowance for active fire fighters.
   
§ 25-12.   Submission of list of members to Town Clerk/Administrator.
   
§ 25-13.   Number of members limited.
   
§ 25-14.   Attendance at drills required.
   
§ 25-15.   Authority at fires.
   
§ 25-16.   Officially adopted documents.
   
§ 25-17.   Physical examinations.
ARTICLE III.
Junior Firefighters Program
   
§ 25-18.   Purpose.
   
§ 25-19.   Qualifications.
   
§ 25-20.   Junior Firefighters' Auxiliary.
   
§ 25-21.   Insurance.
ARTICLE IV.
Cost Reimbursement
   
§ 25-22.   Definitions.
   §
25-23.   Authorization to recover costs and expenses.
   §
25-24.   Schedule of fees and costs.
   §
25-25.   Collection of costs.
   §
25-26.   Interest and administrative fees.
   §
25-27.   Disposition of funds received.
   §
25-28.   Collection action.
   §
25-29.   Waiver of subrogation rights.
   
Exhibit A
GENERAL REFERENCES
   Bureau of Fire Prevention — See
Ch. 28.
   Fire prevention — See
Ch. 144.
Article I.
Control and Operating Provisions
[Adopted 9-13-1971 by Ord. No. 10-1971 as Art. I of Ch. 23 of the 1971 Code]
§ 25-1. Composition of Fire Department.
[Amended 7-22-2019 by Ord. No. 12-2019]
All fire companies existing or which may hereafter exist in the Town of
Hammonton and operating under the control of the town shall hereafter be known
as the "Fire Department of the Town of Hammonton," and the present existing
volunteer fire companies known as the "Hammonton Volunteer Fire Company" and
the "Independent Volunteer Fire Company" (hereinafter collectively called the
"Hammonton Volunteer Fire Companies") are recognized as members of the said
Department. Any volunteer fire company which may hereafter be organized may be
admitted to this Department by and with the consent of Council.
§ 25-2. Officers of the Fire Department.  
[Amended 7-22-2019 by Ord. No. 12- 2019; 5-22-2023 by Ord. No. 10-2023 ]
The Fire Department shall have three officers identified as the Fire Chief,
First Assistant Fire Chief and Second Assistant Fire Chief that shall be
elected and have the powers and duties set forth in §
25-3.
§ 25-3. Powers and duties of Fire Chief and Assistant Fire Chiefs.  
[Amended 7- 22-2019 by Ord. No. 12-2019; 5-22-2023 by Ord. No. 10-2023]
There shall be elected, in an election that occurs any time between October 1
and December 31 in each year, or whenever a vacancy occurs, a Fire Chief and an
Assistant Fire Chief who shall:
   A.   Have command and control of said Fire Department, including engines,
hose or other apparatus or appliances necessarily used in fire departments and
may require the fire companies to keep the same in good condition at all times;
   B.   Have full charge and command of the Fire Department, Hammonton
Volunteer Fire Companies and fire apparatus during all occasions of fire or
emergency;
   C.   Have control of all public cisterns, public pumps or other supplies of
water on occasions of emergency from fire or otherwise, and may require on or
more of said companies to empty any cistern or cisterns requiring cleaning or
repairing;
   D.   Have charge of and distribute any material required for the use of
firemen, engines, hose carts, ladders, trucks, etc., provided by Council;
   E.   Take command and be in charge of all Fire Department meetings;
   F.   Prepare an inventory of equipment and apparatus which shall be
submitted to Town Council on or before October 1 annually;
   G.   Recommend to Town Council the purchase of apparatus and equipment
necessary to maintain the effectiveness of the Hammonton Volunteer Fire
Companies and properly protect life and property from fire; and
   H.   Compel each or all of the Hammonton Volunteer Fire Companies to observe
the provisions of this Chapter 25.
The Second Assistant Fire Chief shall always be subordinate to the First
Assistant Fire Chief, and both Assistant Fire Chiefs shall always be
subordinate to the Fire Chief. In the absence or inability of the Fire Chief to
perform the duties of said office, the First Assistant Fire Chief shall have
the same power and perform the same duties as the Fire Chief. In the absence or
inability of the Fire Chief and First Assistant Fire Chief to perform the
duties of said office, the Second Assistant Fire Chief shall have the same
power and perform the same duties as the Fire Chief.
§ 25-4. Minimum and maximum age of members.
[Added 2-24-1975 by Ord. No. 7-1975; Amended 7-22-2019 by Ord. No. 12-2019]
No person shall be appointed and approved for membership in any volunteer fire
company of the Town of Hammonton who has not reached the age of 18 years as of
the date of appointment nor shall anyone be so appointed and become a member of
a volunteer fire company of the Town of Hammonton after said individual has
reached his or her 46th birthday, unless such person currently holds a State of
New Jersey Firefighter I Certification, is an exempt member of the New Jersey
State Firemen's Relief Association, passes a physical examination as prescribed
by the Town of Hammonton, and has not reached his or her 55th birthday. 1
 
Notes
  1.   Editor's Note: Former § 23-4, Drill requirements; § 23-5, Power to
1 appoint deputy police; and § 23-6, Interfering and obstructing firemen;
  penalty, which immediately followed this section, were deleted 7-23-2001 by
  Ord. No. 26-2001.
§ 25-5. No right to membership. 
 [Amended 7-22-2019 by Ord. No. 12-2019]
There is no fundamental right to membership in the Hammonton Volunteer Fire
Companies.
§ 25-6. Membership.  
[Amended 7-22-2019 by Ord. No. 12-2019]
Any person seeking enrollment in the Hammonton Volunteer Fire Companies shall
make an application to either the Hammonton Volunteer Fire Company or the
Independent Volunteer Fire Company. Upon his or her approval by the respective
Volunteer Fire Company for membership according to the rules of the respective
Volunteer Fire Company, the Volunteer Fire Company shall provide the
application of the person to Town Council. Simultaneously to the respective
Volunteer Fire Company's Applicant review, interview and selection process, the
Applicant shall be subject to a background investigation, including an
investigation of criminal, driving and police records to the extent permitted
by law. No person shall become a member of the Hammonton Volunteer Fire
Companies until such person's membership has been approved by Town Council.
Town Council shall have the right to reject any person seeking enrollment for
any cause deemed sufficient by Town Council.
§ 25-7. Supervision and control of the Fire Department and Hammonton Volunteer
Fire Companies.
[Added 7-22-2019 by Ord. No. 12-2019; amended 5-22-2023 by Ord. No. 10-2023]
The Fire Chief, First Assistant Fire Chief, Second Assistant Fire Chief any and
all members of the Hammonton Volunteer Fire Companies, and any and all officers
of the Hammonton Volunteer Fire Companies shall be under the supervision and
control of Town Council for the Town of Hammonton.
§ 25-8. Discipline, suspension and removal of members.
[Added 7-22-2019 by Ord. No. 12-2019; amended 5-22-2023 by Ord. No. 10-2023]
For any cause deemed sufficient by Town Council, Council may reprimand, suspend
or remove:
   A.   Any member or junior firefighter of the Hammonton Volunteer Fire
Companies;
   B.   The Fire Chief and/or Assistant Fire Chiefs; and
   C.   Any officer or officers of the Hammonton Volunteer Fire Companies.
§ 25-9. Discipline by Hammonton Volunteer Fire Companies.
[Added 7-22-2019 by Ord. No. 12-2019]
In addition to the authority of Town Council to discipline, suspend and remove
members and officers of the Hammonton Volunteer Fire Companies, the Hammonton
Volunteer Fire Companies may impose suitable fines and other penalties on its
respective members, subject to the review and approval of the Fire Chief, in
accordance with the bylaws and rules of the respective Volunteer Fire Company.
This §
25-9 shall not prevent, hinder or in any way interfere with the power of Town
Council set forth in §
25-8. Specifically, this §
25-9 shall not be interpreted to require disciplinary action by the Hammonton
Volunteer Fire Companies, before Town Council may exercise its authority under
§
25-8. As set forth in §
25-7, "any and all members of the Hammonton Volunteer Fire Companies, and any
and all officers of the Hammonton Volunteer Fire Companies shall be under the
supervision and control of Town Council for the Town of Hammonton."
§ 25-10. Limitation on discipline by Hammonton Volunteer Fire Companies.
[Added 7-22-2019 by Ord. No. 12-2019]
Although §
25-9 allows the Hammonton Volunteer Fire Companies to impose suitable fines and
other penalties on its respective members, Town Council is the only entity with
authority to suspend or remove a member from either of the Hammonton Volunteer
Fire Companies. This §
25-10 shall not prevent, hinder or in any way interfere with the power of Town
Council set forth in §
25-8. Specifically, this §
25-10 shall not be interpreted to require disciplinary action by the Hammonton
Volunteer Fire Companies, before Town Council may exercise its authority under
§
25-8.
Article II.
Maintenance of Operation
[Adopted 9-13-1971 by Ord. No. 10-1971 as Art. II of Ch. 23 of the 1971 Code]
§ 25-11. Clothing allowance for active fire fighters.  
[Amended 7-22-2019 by Ord. No. 12-2019]
The annual clothing allowance to be paid to active volunteer fire fighters
shall be as set by Town Council in the yearly Salary Ordinance.  2
 
Notes
2 2.   Editor's Note: The Salary Ordinance is on file in the office of the Town
  Clerk/Administrator.
§ 25-12. Submission of list of members to Town Clerk/Administrator.
The Secretaries of each volunteer fire company shall, on or before the first
day of June each year, file with the Town Clerk/Administrator of the Town of
Hammonton a correct list of all its members as of May 20.
§ 25-13. Number of members limited. 
[Amended 7-22-2019 by Ord. No. 12-2019]
The membership of Hammonton Volunteer Fire Company shall not exceed 40 members,
and of Independent Volunteer Fire Company shall not exceed 40 members.
§ 25-14. Attendance at drills required.
[Amended 7-23-2001 by Ord. No. 26-2001]
The volunteer fire companies shall compel the attendance of all its members at
all drills ordered by the Fire Chief. 3  
 
Notes
  3.   Editor's Note: Former § 23-14, Attendance at fires, penalty; § 23-15,
3 Members may be excused from fines for nonattendance; and § 23-16, Payment of
  fines, which immediately followed this section, were deleted 7-23-2001 by Ord.
  No. 26-2001.
§ 25-15. Authority at fires.
[Added 7-22-2019 by Ord. No. 12-2019; amended 5-22-2023 by Ord. No. 10-2023]
In the absence of the Fire Chief or Assistant Fire Chief at a fire, the first
line officer from one of the Hammonton Volunteer Fire Companies (i.e., Captain
or any of the Lieutenants) to arrive at the scene shall assume command until
the arrival of the Fire Chief, Assistant Fire Chief, or higher ranking line
officer. In the absence of a line officer, the first senior fire fighter to
arrive at the scene, other than the driver, shall assume command until the
arrival of an officer and the transfer of command occurs. Transfer of command
is a formalized process which should occur whenever command is transferred from
one individual to another. This process should cause minimal disruption at the
scene and does not automatically occur with the arrival of a line officer.
Whenever possible, transfer of command should take place face to face and
include an incident briefing.
§ 25-16. Officially adopted documents.
[Added 7-22-2019 by Ord. No. 12-2019]
Town Council has only adopted, through Resolution #29-2013, The Official
Handbook of Volunteer Fire Companies #1 and #2, which may be amended from time
to time through subsequent Resolutions of Town Council. Town Council has not
adopted, is not subject to, and/or is not required to comply with: (1) the
Hammonton Fire Department Rules of Conduct/Disciplinary Code; (2) Operating
Procedure Manual for Hammonton Fire Department; and (3) any other policies,
procedures, manuals adopted by the Hammonton Volunteer Fire Companies and/or
the Fire Department.
§ 25-17. Physical examinations. 
[Added 7-22-2019 by Ord. No. 12-2019]
In order to ensure the health, safety and welfare of every volunteer
firefighter of the Town of Hammonton, every member of the Hammonton Volunteer
Fire Companies shall be subject to a physical examination as prescribed by the
Town of Hammonton once every four years. The physical examination shall be
conducted at the expense of the Town. The Fire Chief shall select 25% of the
members of the Hammonton Volunteer Fire Companies in February of each year that
shall be required to subject themselves to the physical examination prescribed
by the Town on the dates and times provided by the Town. The Town shall provide
at least two dates for the physical examination. In the selection of the 25%,
the Fire Chief shall abide by the following criteria:
   A.   No member of the Hammonton Volunteer Fire Companies shall be subject to
more than one physical examination in a four year period; and
   B.   The 25% shall, to the extent possible, represent an equal number of
members from the Hammonton Volunteer Fire Company and the Independent Volunteer
Fire Company.
The results of a member's physical examination shall be provided to the member,
Fire Chief and Town Clerk, and shall be kept confidential, except that the Town
Clerk may provide the results of the physical examination to the Town Business
Administrator, Mayor and Council for the Town, who shall keep same
confidential. The act of a member accepting membership into the Hammonton
Volunteer Fire Companies or continuing to be a member of the Hammonton
Volunteer Fire Companies constitutes the express authorization by the member
for the Fire Chief, Town Clerk and Mayor and Council for the Town of Hammonton
to receive and review the results of that member's physical examination. Any
refusal by a member of the Hammonton Volunteer Fire Companies to take part in
the physical examination required by this §25-17 shall be grounds for the
immediate removal of that member or members from his/her/their respective
Volunteer Fire Company by Town Council for the Town of Hammonton.
Article III.
Junior Firefighters Program
[Adopted 10-23-1995 by Ord. No. 27-1995]
§ 25-18. Purpose.
The Town of Hammonton is fortunate that it has within its boundaries two fine
volunteer Fire Departments. In an effort to continue that tradition so that
each Department may have talented and dedicated individuals to draw upon and to
promote fire safety and prevention, it is the purpose of this article to permit
each Fire Department to establish a junior firefighters program.
§ 25-19. Qualifications.
In order for a minor to become a member of the junior firefighters program, he
or she must meet the following requirements:
   A.   Be at least 14 years old but not more than 18 years old.
   B.   Provide a certificate of examination by a physician licensed to
practice in the State of New Jersey indicating that the proposed member is
physically fit and suffering from no illness or disability that would prevent
him/her from being a junior firefighter.
   C.   Be a resident of the Town of Hammonton.
   D.   Be approved by the Mayor and Council upon recommendation of the Fire
Chief.
§ 25-20. Junior Firefighters' Auxiliary.
[Amended 7-25-2011 by Ord. No. 16-2011]
   A.   Class I Junior Firefighters' Auxiliary: Individuals aged 16 and 17
shall be permitted to participate as a member of the Junior Fire fighters'
Auxiliary, conditioned upon compliance with the following rules:
      (1)   That the regular Fire Department provides adequate training to
Class I members.
      (2)   While the Class I members of the Junior Firefighters' Auxiliary
shall be permitted to be present at the fire scene, they shall be limited to
their duties in providing support for the others fighting the fire and in
providing services of a nonhazardous nature.
      (3)   At the scene of any fire, the Class I junior firefighter shall be
properly supervised by a full-fledged Department member.
      (4)   No Class I junior firefighter may oil, wipe or clean machinery in
motion.
      (5)   Prior to commencement of any Class I junior firefighter's
activities, a written authorization, on a form to be prepared by the Clerk's
office, shall clearly indicate that the parent and/or guardian consents to his
or her child's participation in the activities in question.
      (6)   The Town of Hammonton shall provide insurance coverage to the
Junior Firefighters' Auxiliary in the same method and manner as it provides
insurance coverage to full-fledged members.
   B.   Class II Junior Fire fighters' Auxiliary: Individuals aged 14 and 15
shall be permitted to participate as a member of the Junior Fire fighters'
Auxiliary, conditioned upon compliance with the following rules:
      (1)   They shall be permitted to attend meetings.
      (2)   They shall be permitted to receive instruction.
      (3)   They shall be permitted to participate in training that does not
involve fire, smoke, toxic or noxious gas or hazardous materials or substances.
      (4)   No Class II junior firefighter may oil, wipe or clean machinery in
motion.
      (5)   While they are performing their observational activities, Class II
junior firefighters shall remain under the supervision of a full-fledged
member.
      (6)   Prior to commencement of any Class II junior firefighter's
activities, a written authorization, on a form to be prepared by the Clerk's
office, shall clearly indicate that the parent and/or guardian consents to his
or her child's participation in the activities in question.
   C.   The respective Fire Departments of the Town of Hammonton are hereby
authorized to add such additional requirements, subject to Mayor and Council
approval, as each deems necessary for the protection, training and retention of
its Junior Firefighters' Auxiliary members.
§ 25-21. Insurance.
Junior firefighters may be included for coverage through the town's
participation in the Atlantic County Municipal Joint Insurance Fund or similar
coverage. If, however, the local volunteer organizations desire to pursue the
formation of a junior program, then they must submit a draft copy of their
proposed bylaws for review by the Atlantic County Municipal Joint Insurance
Fund or other carrier designated by the town. This requirement is to ensure
that there will be no problems with insurance coverage.
Article IV.
Cost Reimbursement
[Adopted 3-17-2008 by Ord. No. 5-2008]
§ 25-22. Definitions.
As used in this article, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated:
FIRE DEPARTMENT – The Town of Hammonton Fire Department.
PERSON – A natural person or persons, partnership, corporation, association, or
firm or other legal entity.
§ 25-23. Authorization to recover costs and expenses.
The governing body of the Town of Hammonton hereby authorizes the Hammonton
Fire Department to recover certain costs associated with its emergency
responses within the Town of Hammonton, including but not limited to the
following: fire apparatus, firefighters and other personnel costs, materials,
equipment, and all other material, labor and equipment expenditures necessary
to resolve an emergency situation.
§ 25-24. Schedule of fees and costs.
Attached hereto, incorporated herein and made a part hereof as
Exhibit A is a schedule of fees and costs which have been authorized by the
governing body of the Town of Hammonton to be charged by the Hammonton Fire
Department. These fees and costs may be charged or invoiced to any person,
entity (or their respective insurance carrier) to whom emergency services were
rendered. It shall be the stated policy of the Town of Hammonton to refrain
from seeking reimbursement from individuals in the event that their insurance
carriers fail to provide reimbursement. In that case, the debt will be deemed
uncollectible. It shall be permissible to increase the costs of the line items
set forth in
Exhibit A by application of the annual Philadelphia-based Consumer Price Index.
1
 
Notes
1 4.   Editor's Note: Exhibit A is included at the end of this chapter.
§ 25-25. Collection of costs.
Costs and fees as outlined above and in
Exhibit A will be recovered by the Town of Hammonton Fire Department
Administrator or his/her designee. 1
 
Notes
1 5.   Editor's Note: Exhibit A is included at the end of this chapter.
§ 25-26. Interest and administrative fees.
In addition to the aforementioned fees and costs, the Hammonton Fire Department
will assess interest at a rate of 7.00% per annum, together with reasonable
administrative fees for the cost of collection of any debt outstanding for more
than 60 days.
§ 25-27. Disposition of funds received.
Funds received by the Hammonton Fire Department will be deposited in the
"Hammonton Fire Department Equipment Trust Fund." This fund will be held in
trust by the Town of Hammonton and funds will be expended through use of
purchase orders through the Town of Hammonton. Under no circumstances shall
these funds be utilized for operating expenses. It is the intention of this
article to designate these funds for capital expenditures only. The trust fund
in question shall be for the exclusive use of Hammonton Fire Company No. 1 and
No. 2 and shall not be utilized by any other Town department or outside entity.
§ 25-28. Collection action.
The Fire Department shall have the discretion to forward any unpaid bill
(outstanding for more than 60 days) to the Town Solicitor for appropriate
collection action, including, if necessary, judicial enforcement in a court of
competent jurisdiction within the State of New Jersey. The Hammonton Fire
Department reserves the right to collect costs incurred through collection
enforcement.
§ 25-29. Waiver of subrogation rights.   
[Added 6-28-2010 by Ord. No. 12-2010]
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Town and the Fire Department shall waive
their subrogation rights, if any, to the extent it receives payment for any
claim hereunder from the Joint Insurance Fund and specifically assigns to the
Joint Insurance Fund and/or its agents, servants and employees the right to
pursue such subrogation claims on behalf of the Town and Fire Department.
EXHIBIT A
Fee Schedule
The fee schedule for Hammonton Fire Department response is shown below. The
Hammonton Fire Department will make all determinations on type of response. The
Hammonton Fire Department also reserves the right to waive any and all charges
at its discretion for any reason. After the first hour of billed response,
additional time will be billed in 1/2 hour increments. All charges are for
first hour of response. Additional hours will be billed at regular cost.
Incidents lasting more than three hours will be billed the Command Post
surcharge of $500.
Motor vehicle fire. Defined as a fire or reported fire in, on or around any
motor vehicle or other means of transportation. "Motor vehicle" for purposes of
the Hammonton Fire Department is any mode of transportation that requires
registration with the New Jersey Division of Motor Vehicles or its
corresponding agency in another state. The cost for response shall be $350 per
fire apparatus per hour.
Motor vehicle accident. Defined as an actual or reported motor vehicle
accident. "Motor vehicle accident," for the purposes of the Hammonton Fire
Department, shall be an incident involving one or more motor vehicles striking
another object. Cost for this response will be $250 per apparatus per hour.
Motor vehicle accident with fire. Defined as an actual or reported motor
vehicle accident where a fire or suspected fire ensues. This will include fires
resulting from mechanical malfunction as well as a motor vehicle accident. For
the purposes of the Hammonton Fire Department, a fire consists of a reported or
actual burning in, on or around the motor vehicle. "Motor vehicle accident,"
for the purposes of the Hammonton Fire Department, shall be an incident
involving one or more motor vehicles striking another object. Cost will be $450
per apparatus per hour.
Helicopter landing assignment. Defined as any and all emergencies where the
Hammonton Fire Department is required to land one or more helicopters. Each
landing will be billed at $250 per zone. Helicopter landings that are cancelled
by EMS or the helicopter pilot shall be billed at $125 if a landing zone is
established prior to the cancellation.
Traffic control assignments. Defined as any and all requested traffic control
assignments. These can result from any type of incident occurring in the Town
of Hammonton. The cost for this response will be $400 per hour. This charge is
all inclusive and billed hourly.
Structure fires. The Hammonton Fire Department will respond to any and all
reported or actual structure fires in the Town of Hammonton. For purposes of
the Hammonton Fire Department, a "structure fire" will be a reported or actual
fire in any residential, commercial or industrial structure in the Town of
Hammonton. The cost for this response will be $500 per hour. This charge is all
inclusive and billed hourly.
Alarm malfunctions. Defined as all reported fire or other alarm activations in
the Town of Hammonton where the Fire Department is dispatched to respond. In
the event that this response is determined to be a malfunctioning alarm or an
accidental activation, fines will be levied via the following schedule. First
offense- written warning; second offense - $25 fine; third offense - $50 fine;
fourth offense - $50 fine. "Billable alann malfunctions" are defined as repeat
activations of an alarm based on failure of the alarm system or the acts of
individuals which cause said alarm system to activate incorrectly. These above
offenses must occur within a twelve-month period.
Mulch, grass, bush, tree or agricultural products. The Hammonton Fire
Department will respond to all dispatched calls for the above type of fire or
suspected fire. In the event that the Hammonton Fire Department responds twice
or more to the same location or general location for a same or similar incident
within a calendar year, a fee of $250 will be imposed for additional offenses.
This fee is applicable to tenants, management companies and/or building owners.
The Hammonton Fire Department reserves the right to determine who is the
billable entity.
Turn-out-gear. In the event that Hammonton Fire Department h1m-out-gear is
damaged or destroyed as a result of responding to any incident, its replacement
costs will be billed as follows:
   Helmet: $200.
   Nomex hood: $50
   Nomex jacket: $700
   Nomex pants: $700
   Suspenders: $75
   Gloves: $50
   Boots: $125
CHAPTER 35.
OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
[HISTORY: Adopted by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton as
indicated in article histories. Amendments noted where applicable.]
ARTICLE I.
Radio Operators
   
§ 35-1.   Positions created.
   
§ 35-2.   Control and supervision.
   
§ 35-3.   Hours of employment.
ARTICLE II.
Chief Financial Officer
   
§ 35-4.   Purpose and legislative authority.
   
§ 35-5.   Term; manner of appointment.
   
§ 35-6.   Duties and responsibilities.
ARTICLE III.
Tax Assessor Hours
   
§ 35-7.   Minimum hours.
   
§ 35-8.   Opening of office.
ARTICLE IV.
Municipal Clerk
   
§ 35-9.   Legislative findings.
   
§ 35-10.   Duties.
   
§ 35-11.   Qualifications.
   
§ 35-12.   Term.
ARTICLE V.
Town Solicitor
   
§ 35-13.   Purpose.
   
§ 35-14.   Term.
   
§ 35-15.   Appointment.
   
§ 35-16.   Contract; compensation.
ARTICLE VI.
Assistant Superintendent of Highways
   
§ 35-17.   Purpose.
   
§ 35-18.   Position created.
   
§ 35-19.   Succession of authority.
   
§ 35-20.   Length of appointment.
ARTICLE VII.
Technical Assistant, Office of the Construction Official
   
§ 35-21.   Purpose.
   
§ 35-22.   Supervisory authority; duties.
   
§ 35-23.   Qualifications.
   
§ 35-24.   Salary.
   
§ 35-25.   Compliance with laws and regulations.
ARTICLE VIII.
Municipal Tax Assessor
   
§ 35-26.   Purpose.
   
§ 35-27.   Board of Assessors abolished.
   
§ 35-28.   Establishment of position.
   
§ 35-29.   Term of office; vacancies.
   
§ 35-30.   Qualifications.
   
§ 35-31.   Duties.
   
§ 35-32.   Effect on present employees.
ARTICLE IX.
Accountant in Treasurer's Office
   
§ 35-33.   Purpose.
   
§ 35-34.   Specifications.
   
§ 35-35.   Salary.
ARTICLE X.
Deputy Clerk
   
§ 35-36.   Position created.
   
§ 35-37.   Appointment.
   
§ 35-38.   Under direction of Town Clerk; duties.
   
§ 35-39.   Absence of Town Clerk/Administrator.
ARTICLE XI.
Municipal Housing Liaison
   
§ 35-40.   Purpose.
   
§ 35-41.   Definitions.
   
§ 35-42.   Establishment of position; compensation; powers and duties.
GENERAL REFERENCES
   Boards, committees and commissions — See
Ch. 6.
   Code of Ethics — See
Ch. 22.
   Personnel policies — See
Ch. 48.
Article I.
Radio Operators
[Adopted 9-13-1971 by Ord. No. 10-1971 as Art. I of Ch. 11 of the 1971 Code]
§ 35-1. Positions created.
   There are hereby created the following positions in the Town of Hammonton:
   A.   Chief Radio Operator.
   B.   Three radio operators.
   C.   Such substitute radio operators on a part-time basis as needed.
§ 35-2. Control and supervision.
[Amended 4-28-1980 by Ord. No. 12-1980]
   The Chief Radio Operator and the radio operators shall be responsible to and
under the direct control and supervision of the Chief of Police of the Town of
Hammonton and to the Law and Order Committee of the governing body of the Town
of Hammonton.
§ 35-3. Hours of employment.
[Added 12-22-1958 by Ord. No. 17-1958]
   A.   Hours of employment limited. The normal workweek of employment for the
Chief Radio Operator and the radio operators of the Town of Hammonton shall be
40 hours.
   B.   Emergencies. In case of an emergency the Mayor, the Chairperson of the
Law and Order Committee of the Common Council or the Chief of Police shall have
full authority to summon and keep on duty any and all such radio operators
during the period of emergency. The determination of the Mayor or the
Chairperson of the Law and Order Committee as to the existence of an emergency
shall be conclusive.
Article II.
Chief Financial Officer
[Adopted 1-23-1989 by Ord. No. 1-1989]
§ 35-4. Purpose and legislative authority.
   The Legislature of the State of New Jersey has by and through Chapter 110 of
the Laws of 1988 (N.J.S.A. 40A:9-140.1 et seq.) that every municipality must
have as its Chief Financial Officer by January 1, 1991, an official who is
certified as a municipal finance officer under New Jersey Statutes therein made
and provided and has mandated that the position of Chief Financial Officer be
created by ordinance on or before February 18, 1989. Editor's Note: Former §
22-2, Position defined; eligibility, which immediately followed this section,
was deleted 7-23-2001 by Ord. No. 26-2001.
§ 35-5. Term; manner of appointment.
   The Chief Financial Officer shall first be appointed for a term to expire
December 31, 1990, and shall be appointed every two years thereafter for a two-
year term. Said appointment shall be by vote of the Mayor and Town Council.
§ 35-6. Duties and responsibilities.
   The Chief Financial Officer of the Town of Hammonton shall carry out all of
the responsibilities as set forth in Chapter 151 of the Public Laws of 1947
(N.J.S.A. 52:27BB-1 et seq.) and all rules and regulations promulgated there
under.
Article III.
Tax Assessor Hours
[Adopted 2-26-1990 by Ord. No. 4-1990]
§ 35-7. Minimum hours.
   The Municipal Tax Assessor of the Town of Hammonton shall maintain and be
required to maintain as a condition of employment certain minimum hours of
employment as follows: Monday through Friday of each week, except legal
holidays, sick days and vacation days, the hours of 9:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.
§ 35-8. Opening of office.
   It shall be the responsibility of the Municipal Tax Assessor of the Town of
Hammonton to keep open the office of the Tax Assessor during said minimum hours
for the benefit of the general public and citizens of the Town of Hammonton.
Article IV
Municipal Clerk
[Adopted 12-9-1991 by Ord. No. 25-1991]
§ 35-9. Legislative findings.
[Amended 3-26-2012 by Ord. No. 4B-2012]
   N.J.S.A. 40A:9-133 requires every municipality to appoint a Municipal Clerk
for a term of three years commencing January 1.
§ 35-10. Duties.
[Amended 3-26-2012 by Ord. No. 4B-2012]
   The Municipal Clerk shall perform all duties of the Clerk of the Town of
Hammonton, as may be prescribed by the statutes of the State of New Jersey and
particularly N.J.S.A. 40A:9-133.
§ 35-11. Qualifications. 
[Amended 3-26-2012 by Ord. No. 4B-2012]
   The Mayor and Council shall appoint a Municipal Clerk to a three year term
effective January 1st and expiring December 31st. However, no person shall be
re-appointed unless they hold the required Registered Municipal Clerk
Certificate issued pursuant to Section 3 or Section 4 of P.L. 1985, c.174.
§ 35-12. Term.  
[Amended 3-26-2012 by Ord. No. 4B-2012]
   The term of office for a municipal clerk shall be three years and upon re-
appointment the Municipal Clerk shall become tenured upon completion of his/her
fifth year in office.
Article V
Town Solicitor
[Adopted 3-14-1994 by Ord. No. 7-1994]
§ 35-13. Purpose.
   The New Jersey Legislature has enacted N.J.S.A. 40A:9-139. This statute
gives every municipality the right to create, by ordinance, the position of
Municipal Attorney. The individual appointed to this position shall handle the
legal affairs for the municipality. Editor's Note: See also
Ch. 38, Outside Counsel Fee Schedule. The position created shall be entitled
"Town Solicitor."
§ 35-14. Term.
   The office of Town Solicitor shall be for a term of one year, which term
shall commence on January 1 of each given year and terminate at 11:59 a.m. on
December 31 of each given year, with the understanding that the holder of said
office is appointed. It is understood that the Town of Hammonton has, by
tradition, made this appointment at the Mayor and Council reorganization
meeting, which is held at 12:00 noon on January 1 of each year.
§ 35-15. Appointment.
   The Town Solicitor shall be appointed by the Mayor and Common Council of the
Town of Hammonton.
§ 35-16. Contract; compensation.
   The Town Solicitor shall be required to enter into a contract with the
governing body, which shall set forth the terms and conditions of employment
and the compensation to be paid.
Article VI.
Assistant Superintendent of Highways
[Adopted 3-28-1994 by Ord. No. 8-1994]
§ 35-17. Purpose.
   The Town of Hammonton acknowledges the need to establish a chain of command
for supervision of the Town Highway Department. The purpose of this article is
to establish a chain of command so that there can be an orderly and smooth
operation, addressing all of the Highway Department duties, when the
Superintendent of Highways is absent for any reason.
§ 35-18. Position created.
   The Town hereby creates the position of Assistant Superintendent, which
position shall be filled by the Mayor and Council and be compensated according
to the Salary Ordinance adopted by the Mayor and Council. Editor's Note: Said
Salary Ordinance is on file at the office of the Town Clerk/Municipal
Administrator. The Assistant Superintendent shall not be considered a person in
a management position but shall be responsible for carrying out the
instructions of the Superintendent and also be responsible for the operation of
the Department in the absence of the Superintendent.
§ 35-19. Succession of authority.
   The Superintendent of Highways is responsible for the day-to-day operation
of the Town Highway Department. The Superintendent shall use his/her best
efforts to run the Department to adequately meet the needs of the Town of
Hammonton and carry out the policies of the Mayor and Council. In the
Superintendent's absence, the Assistant Superintendent shall be responsible for
the operation of the Highway Department. If the Superintendent and Assistant
Superintendent are absent, the Chairperson of the Highway Department shall be
responsible for the operation of the Department.
§ 35-20. Length of appointment.
   The individual selected as Assistant Superintendent by the Mayor and Council
shall continue in that capacity so long as he/she is performing the duties of
the position satisfactory to the Mayor and Council.
Article VII.
Technical Assistant, Office of the Construction Official
[Adopted 6-20-1994 by Ord. No. 15-1994]
§ 35-21. Purpose.
   There is hereby created in the Town of Hammonton the position of Technical
Assistant, Office of the Construction Official. It is the express purpose of
this article to properly title the duties presently being performed by the
clerk typist in that same department and to comply with the titling regulations
of the New Jersey Department of Civil Service, Division of Local Government
Services.
§ 35-22. Supervisory authority; duties.
   The person hired for this position shall work under the direction of the
Building Inspector. The person shall provide technical assistance in the
issuance of permits for building construction, ensure compliance with the
provisions of the New Jersey Uniform Construction Code (N.J.S.A. 52:27D-119 et
seq.) and do all related work associated with the aforementioned. The duties
include but are not limited to the following:
   A.   Review applications for construction permits to ensure they are
complete.
   B.   Issue permits after authorization by the department head or appropriate
Subcode official.
   C.   Assist the general public in completing applications for permits.
   D.   Calculate fees for permits.
   E.   Conduct research and gather information.
   F.   Maintain necessary records and files.
   G.   Prepare reports, narratives and correspondence.
   H.   Handle the typing and recordkeeping requirements of the office.
§ 35-23. Qualifications.
   The minimum requirements for the position include:
   A.   Two years of experience in work involving the processing, reviewing and
issuing of building construction permits.
   B.   Thorough knowledge of the provisions of the New Jersey Uniform
Construction Code.
   C.   A resident of the Town of Hammonton.
   D.   A high school diploma or a general equivalency diploma (GED).
   E.   The ability to read, write, speak, understand or communicate in
English. Communication may include American Sign Language and/or Braille.
   F.   The ability to type and handle clerical duties.
§ 35-24. Salary.
   The salary for the position shall be subject to negotiation by the Mayor and
Council and the person so hired or their respective representatives.
§ 35-25. Compliance with laws and regulations.
   The hiring process shall follow the applicable Civil Service Rules and
Regulations and any other State of New Jersey law that is applicable.
Article VIII.
Municipal Tax Assessor
[Adopted 5-22-1995 by Ord. No. 10-1995]
§ 35-26. Purpose.
   The purpose of this article is to comply with the provisions of N.J.S.A.
40A:9-146.1 et seq. A review of the Code of the Town of Hammonton reveals that
the municipal ordinances are in conflict with the aforementioned state statute
which abolished a Municipal Board of Assessors.
§ 35-27. Board of Assessors abolished.
   N.J.S.A. 40A:9-146.1, adopted and effective January 6, 1982, states in
pertinent part hereto that "Board of Assessors created prior to the effective
date of this act are hereby abolished." The Town of Hammonton, by Ordinance No.
15-1972, previously created a Board of Assessors and, by virtue of this
article, that ordinance, codified as Chapter 58 of the Code of the Town of
Hammonton, is hereby repealed in its entirety.
§ 35-28. Establishment of position.
   Pursuant to N.J.S.A. 40A:9-146 et seq., there is hereby established in the
Town of Hammonton, County of Atlantic, State of New Jersey, a position to be
known and designated as "Municipal Tax Assessor." Said position shall be
established as a full-time position, and any appointee to said position shall
work on the duties thereof during normal business hours on each weekday or at
such other times as can be agreed upon by the governing body.
§ 35-29. Term of office; vacancies.
   The term of office shall be for four years from the first day of July next
following his/her appointment. Vacancies other than those due to expiration of
the term shall be filled by appointment for the unexpired term.
§ 35-30. Qualifications.
   A Municipal Tax Assessor must hold a Tax Assessor certificate provided for
by law and also hold a valid New Jersey driver's license.
§ 35-31. Duties.
   The Municipal Tax Assessor shall list and compile the yearly tax books;
assist in the preparation of records for appeals to the county and state tax
boards; answer inquiries and give information pertaining to tax assessments;
note dispositions of tax search records and review tax records; check the
location of property; verify and keep up-to-date names and addresses of owners
of property; and do such other work of a specialized clerical nature as is
delegated to him or her by the County Board of Tax Assessors and the Mayor and
Council of the Town of Hammonton.
§ 35-32. Effect on present employees.
   Nothing contained in this article shall adversely affect the salary or
tenure rights acquired during previous employment of the person discharging the
duties of Municipal Tax Assessor.
Article IX.
Accountant in Treasurer's Office
[Adopted 6-26-2000 by Ord. No. 15-2000]
§ 35-33. Purpose.
   The purpose of this article is to establish the position which shall be
known as "accountant" within the office of the Treasurer and Tax Collector.
§ 35-34. Specifications.
   The position of accountant shall be defined in accordance with
specifications as published by the New Jersey Department of Personnel which
shall include and not be limited to the performing of routine accounting work
involved in preparing financial statements and in maintaining an accounting
system and related work under the direction of the Treasurer, Tax Collector and
Chief Financial Officer (CFO). Responsibilities shall also include and not be
limited to the examples of work as published by the Department of Personnel,
Job Specification 00004, which is incorporated herein by reference and
supplemented by the governing body of the Town of Hammonton from time to time.
§ 35-35. Salary.
   The amount to be paid to the person filling the position of accountant shall
be in accordance with Salary Ordinance adopted by the governing body. Editor's
Note: The Salary Ordinance is on file in the office of the Town Clerk/
Administrator.
Article X.
Deputy Clerk
[Adopted 9-13-1971 by Ord. No. 10-1971 as Ch. 15 of the 1971 Code]
§ 35-36. Position created.
   There is hereby created in the Town of Hammonton the position of Deputy Town
Clerk.
§ 35-37. Appointment.
[Amended 10-22-2001 by Ord. No. 31-2001; 11-24-2008 by Ord. No. 33-2008]
   A.   The Deputy Town Clerk shall be appointed by the Mayor and Council of
the Town of Hammonton, per the recommendation of the Town Clerk, for a term of
one year and shall commence on January 1 of the year of appointment and
terminate 12 months thereafter on December 31 at midnight.
   B.   Should a Deputy Town Clerk be appointed mid year, then the term of
appointment shall still expire December 31 at midnight of the same year of
appointment.
§ 35-38. Under direction of Town Clerk; duties.
[Amended 11-24-2008 by Ord. No. 33-2008]
   The Deputy Town Clerk shall be subordinate to and under the direction of the
Town Clerk/Administrator and shall take charge of and perform all duties
assigned to him/her pertaining to the office of the Town Clerk/Administrator as
directed by the Town Clerk/Administrator.
§ 35-39. Absence of Town Clerk/Administrator.
   The Deputy Town Clerk shall have all the powers and perform all the duties
of the Town Clerk/Administrator during such times and for such specific periods
as the Town Clerk/Administrator shall be absent.
Article XI.
Municipal Housing Liaison
[Adopted 11-24-2008 by Ord. No. 35-2008]
§ 35-40. Purpose.
   The purpose of this article is to create the administrative mechanisms
needed for the execution of the Town of Hammonton's responsibility to assist in
the provision of affordable housing pursuant to the Fair Housing Act of 1985.
§ 35-41. Definitions.
   As used in this article, the following terms shall have the meanings
indicated:
   ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT
   The entity responsible for administering the affordability controls of some
or all units in the affordable housing program for the Town of Hammonton to
ensure that the restricted units under administration are affirmatively
marketed and sold or rented, as applicable, only to low- and moderate-income
households.
   MUNICIPAL HOUSING LIAISON
   The employee charged by the governing body with the responsibility for
oversight and administration of the affordable housing program for the Town of
Hammonton is Frank Zuber.
§ 35-42. Establishment of position; compensation; powers and duties.
   A.   Establishment of position of Municipal Housing Liaison. There is hereby
established the position of Municipal housing Liaison for the Town of
Hammonton.
   B.   Subject to the approval of the Council on Affordable Housing (COAH),
the Municipal Housing Liaison shall be appointed by the governing body and may
be a full- or part-time municipal employee.
   C.   The Municipal Housing Liaison shall be responsible for oversight and
administration of the affordable housing program for the Town of Hammonton,
including the following responsibilities which may not be contracted out,
exclusive of Subsection C(6), which may be contracted out:
      (1)   Serving as the Town of Hammonton's primary point of contact for all
inquiries from the state, affordable housing providers, administrative agents,
and interested households;
      (2)   Monitoring the status of all restricted units in the Town of
Hammonton's Fair Share Plan;
      (3)   Compiling, verifying, and submitting annual reports as required by
COAH;
      (4)   Coordinating meetings with affordable housing providers and
administrative agents, as applicable;
      (5)   Attending continuing education opportunities on affordability
controls, compliance monitoring, and affirmative marketing as offered or
approved by COAH;
      (6)   If applicable, serving as the administrative agent for some or all
of the restricted units in the Town of Hammonton as described in Subsection F
below.
   D.   Subject to approval by COAH, the Town of Hammonton may contract with or
authorize a consultant, authority, government or any agency charged by the
governing body, which entity shall have the responsibility of administering the
affordable housing program of the Town of Hammonton, except for those
responsibilities which may not be contracted out pursuant to Subsection C
above. If the Town of Hammonton contracts with another entity to administer all
or any part of the affordable housing program, including the affordability
controls and affirmative marketing plan, the Municipal Housing Liaison shall
supervise the contracting administrative agent.
   E.   Compensation. Compensation shall be fixed by the governing body at the
time of the appointment of the Municipal Housing Liaison.
   F.   Administrative powers and duties assigned to the Municipal Housing
Liaison.
      (1)   Affirmative marketing:
         (a)   Conducting an outreach process to insure affirmative marketing
of affordable housing units in accordance with the affirmative marketing plan
of Hammonton and the provisions of N.J.A.C. 5:80-26.15; and
         (b)   Providing counseling or contracting to provide counseling
services to low- and moderate-income applicants on subjects such as budgeting,
credit issues, mortgage qualification, rental lease requirements, and landlord/
tenant law.
      (2)   Household certification:
         (a)   Soliciting, scheduling, conducting and following up on
interviews with interested households;
         (b)   Conducting interviews and obtaining sufficient documentation of
gross income and assets upon which to base a determination of income
eligibility for a low- or moderate-income unit;
         (c)   Providing written notification to each applicant as to the
determination of eligibility or noneligibility;
         (d)   Requiring that all certified applicants for restricted units
execute a certificate substantially in the form, as applicable, of either the
ownership or rental certificates set forth in Appendices J and K of N.J.A.C. 5:
80-26.1 et seq.;
         (e)   Creating and maintaining a referral list of eligible applicant
households living in the housing region and eligible applicant households with
members working in the housing region where the units are located; and
         (f)   Employing the random selection process as provided in the
affirmative marketing plan of Hammonton when referring households for
certification to affordable units.
      (3)   Affordability controls:
         (a)   Furnishing to attorneys or closing agents forms of deed
restrictions and mortgages for recording at the time of conveyance of title of
each restricted unit;
         (b)   Creating and maintaining a file on each restricted unit for its
control period, including the recorded deed with restrictions, recorded
mortgage and note as appropriate;
         (c)   Ensuring that the removal of the deed restrictions and
cancellation of the mortgage note are effectuated and properly filed with the
appropriate county's register of deeds or county clerk's office after the
termination of the affordability controls for each restricted unit;
         (d)   Communicating with lenders regarding foreclosures; and
         (e)   Ensuring the issuance of continuing certificates of occupancy or
certifications pursuant to N.J.A.C. 5:80-26.10.
      (4)   Resale and rental;
         (a)   Instituting and maintaining an effective means of communicating
information between owners and the administrative agent regarding the
availability of restricted units for resale or rental; and
         (b)   Instituting and maintaining an effective means of communicating
information to low- and moderate-income households regarding the availability
of restricted units for resale or rerental.
      (5)   Processing requests from unit owners:
         (a)   Reviewing and approving requests from owners of restricted units
who wish to take out home equity loans or refinance during the term of their
ownership;
         (b)   Reviewing and approving requests to increase sales prices from
owners of restricted units who wish to make capital improvements to the units
that would affect the selling price, such authorizations to be limited to those
improvements resulting in additional bedrooms or bathrooms and the cost of
central air-conditioning systems; and
         (c)   Processing requests and making determinations on requests by
owners of restricted units for hardship waivers.
      (6)   Enforcement:
         (a)   Securing annually lists of all affordable housing units for
which tax bills are mailed to absentee owners and notifying all such owners
that they must either move back to their unit or sell it;
         (b)   Securing from all developers and sponsors of restricted units,
at the earliest point of contact in the processing of the project or
development, written acknowledgement of the requirement that no restricted unit
can be offered, or in any other way committed, to any person, other than a
household duly certified to the unit by the administrative agent.
         (c)   The posting annually in all rental properties, including two-
family homes, of a notice as to the maximum permitted rent together with the
telephone number of the administrative agent where complaints of excess rent
can be made;
         (d)   Sending annual mailings to all owners of affordable dwelling
units, reminding them of the notices and requirements outlined in N.J.A.C. 5:
80-26.18(d)4;
         (e)   Establishing a program for diverting unlawful rent payments to
the municipality's affordable housing trust fund or other appropriate municipal
fund approved by the DCA;
         (f)   Creating and publishing a written operating manual, as approved
by COAH, setting forth procedures for administering such affordability
controls; and
         (g)   Providing annual reports to COAH as required.
      (7)   The administrative agent shall have authority to take all actions
necessary and appropriate to carry out its responsibilities hereunder.
CHAPTER 38.
OUTSIDE COUNSEL FEE SCHEDULE
[HISTORY: Adopted by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton 3-
24-1997 by Ord. No. 3-1997. Amendments noted where applicable.]
   
§ 38-1.   Purpose.
   
§ 38-2.   Costs and expenses.
   
§ 38-3.   Periodic reports.
   
§ 38-4.   Conflict of interest.
   
§ 38-5.   Legal fees.
   
§ 38-6.   Unique projects.
   
§ 38-7.   Lead counsel.
GENERAL REFERENCES
   Town Solicitor — See
Ch. 35, Art. V.
§ 38-1. Purpose.
   A.   The Town of Hammonton has from time to time found it necessary to
retain counsel on a case-to-case basis in certain civil matters in order to
best protect its employees. It is not the purpose of this chapter to either
amplify upon or reduce the Town's responsibility. It is, however, an
acknowledgment of a statutory and/or contractual obligation to provide a civil
defense in certain situations not specifically covered in the Town's present
defense format.
   B.   It is not the intention of this chapter to abrogate or in any way
disturb the present defense procedures in place and provided through the Town
of Hammonton or any of its existing defense modalities.
§ 38-2. Costs and expenses.
   The Town of Hammonton will not be responsible for the counsel fees, costs,
expenses, etc., including the indemnification for any associated damages
obtained against said employee, unless the counsel retained has been first
approved and authorized to represent said employee by the Town of Hammonton.
Said approval must be obtained through the Mayor and Council and more formally
adopted in the form of a resolution.
§ 38-3. Periodic reports.
   Where appropriate, all counsel authorized pursuant to this chapter must
provide the Town of Hammonton through its Municipal Solicitor with periodic
reports, which reportage shall be determined between the Solicitor and said
counsel as to the frequency and the contents to be contained in said reportage.
§ 38-4. Conflict of interest.
   All counsel to be authorized pursuant to this chapter shall abide by the
Conflict of Interest Policy, which policy is attached hereto and incorporated
by reference herein. Editor's Note: Conflict of Interest Policy is on file in
the office of the Clerk/Administrator.
§ 38-5. Legal fees.
   Statements for legal services must comply with the approved fee schedule:
   A.   Hourly rate.
      (1)   Approved hourly rates are:
         (a)   Attorneys: $95 per hour.
         (b)   Paralegals: $60 per hour.
      (2)   Duplication of effort. There are times when more than one attorney
will be working on a case, but those times should be rare. Generally,
conferences of attorneys within an office should be billed only by the attorney
primarily handling the case.
      (3)   The following are considered to be paralegal functions and should
be billed at the paralegal rate:
         (a)   Preparation of form interrogatories.
         (b)   Preparation of discovery motions.
         (c)   Summarizing answers to interrogatories.
         (d)   Preparation of nonstandard record subpoenas.
         (e)   Preparation of authorization to secure records (medical, tax,
union).
         (f)   Summarizing employment and medical records.
         (g)   Preparation of witness and exhibit list.
      (4)   Secretarial functions are part of office overhead and should not
appear on billings. The following functions are considered to be secretarial:
         (a)   Scheduling and arrangements of meetings and appointments.
         (b)   Scheduling of arrangements for examinations.
         (c)   Preparation of subpoena for employment and medical records.
         (d)   Preparation of subpoenas and notices for taking depositions.
         (e)   Calendar management.
         (f)   Conflict checks.
         (g)   Organizing and reorganizing files.
         (h)   Indexing and tabbing file materials.
         (i)   Pick up and delivery of documents and records.
         (j)   Telephone calls and/or correspondence to copy service providers.
         (k)   Arrangements for deposition transcripts.
         (l)   Creating and organizing binders and notebooks and file folders.
         (m)   Copy, collating and binding.
         (n)   Preparation of medical or employment authorizations.
         (o)   Preparation of document inventory.
   B.   Out-of-pocket costs. Out-of-pocket expenses are reimbursable where
those costs are necessary to the defense of a claim and where those costs are
not considered to be "overhead" items for the defense attorney.
   C.   Deposition costs; expert witnesses and independent medical
examinations. The authorization for independent medical examinations should be
obtained, in advance, from the Town of Hammonton. The retention of expert
witnesses, other than for medical examinations, should be reviewed with the
Municipal Solicitor and Town of Hammonton before proceeding.
   D.   Filing fees are fully reimbursable.
   E.   Investigators. Investigations should be coordinated with the Town of
Hammonton. Any decision to retain an outside investigator must be approved by
the Town of Hammonton.
   F.   Messenger and overnight delivery. These items will be reimbursed only
where the use of messenger services and overnight delivery services are
necessary for the proper defense of a case. The use of messenger and overnight
delivery services must be monitored and will not be reimbursed where they are
used as a matter of convenience and not of necessity.
   G.   Mileage. No mileage reimbursement is applicable for travel within or to
the county in which the municipality is located or in which the defendant
attorney is located. Mileage reimbursement will be made for necessary travel
beyond those limits at the rate established by the Internal Revenue Service for
mileage expenses.
   H.   Photocopying. Where photocopying is necessary for the filing and
service of multiple copies of pleadings, motions, briefs and similar documents,
the photocopying charges will be reimbursed at a rate not to exceed $0.25 per
page. Photocopying done as a matter of convenience for correspondence
(including copies sent to other counsel or to the Town of Hammonton or to the
Municipal Solicitors) are not reimbursable and are considered to be overhead
expenses.
   I.   Overhead items.
      (1)   These are items which some law firms might treat as out-of-pocket
costs which the Town of Hammonton believes are properly classified as overhead
costs and which are not reimbursable.
      (2)   Examples of items which constitute overhead expenses and which
should not appear on billings are: postage (except for extraordinary expenses
such as certified mail and return receipt charges), library expenses (including
computerized on-line research), local mileage, clerical expenses, photocopying
for routine purposes, telephone charges, telefax charges.
   J.   Billing procedure.
      (1)   Statements for services must be submitted on a quarterly basis to
the Town of Hammonton with a copy to the Municipal Solicitor. All statements
must be itemized with the time calculated in 1/10 of an hour increments. The
date, description of the service rendered, and identity of the person providing
the service must be provided for each entry. Appropriate documentation must be
provided for each entry. Appropriate documentation must be provided for out-of-
pocket costs and disbursements. Each interim and final statement will reflect
current period outstanding fees plus cumulative paid fees and expenses from the
inception of the legal activities of the file. The Town of Hammonton will
review all statements for services rendered and make inquiries on any
questionable items to the defense attorney and Municipal Solicitor.
      (2)   Once the billing has been reviewed by the Town of Hammonton and the
Municipal Solicitor, payment shall normally be processed as soon as is
practicable.
§ 38-6. Unique projects.
   The within fee shall include all incidental costs and expenses, including
but not limited to telephone, copying, etc. Any and all unique services not
covered herein regarding expenditures must first be approved by the Town of
Hammonton.
§ 38-7. Lead counsel.
   A.   Wherever counsel is retained pursuant to this chapter, and said
services pertain to the defense of punitive damage claims only; the attorney
defending the same individual(s) as to the compensatory damage claim, if any,
shall be designated as the lead counsel.
   B.   It is also agreed that all attorneys involved should, where
appropriate, confer and plan defense strategy in order to obviate overlapping,
duplication and other redundant services.
CHAPTER 41.
PARKS AND RECREATION, DEPARTMENT OF
[HISTORY: Adopted by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton 12-
13-1999 by Ord. No. 31-1999. Amendments noted where applicable.]
   
§ 41-1.   Purpose.
   
§ 41-2.   Department created.
   
§ 41-3.   Position of Recreation Leader created; requirements and salary.
   
§ 41-4.   Terms of employment.
   
§ 41-5.   Salary of Recreation Leader.
   
§ 41-6.   Position of Recreation Aide.
   
§ 41-7.   [Reserved.]
   
§ 41-8.   Support staff.
GENERAL REFERENCES
   Board of Park Commissioners — See
Ch. 6, Art. II.
   Hammonton Lake Park — See
Ch. 82, Art. III.
   Curfew at Hammonton Lake Park — See
Ch. 119.
   Littering — See
Ch. 184.
   Parks and recreation areas — See
Ch. 200.
§ 41-1. Purpose.
[Amended 7-22-2013 by Ord. No. 013-2013]
   A.   It is the purpose of this chapter to create and establish a Department
of Parks and Recreation and provide for a Recreation Leader and other support
staff who under the direction of the Mayor and Council shall be responsible for
matters concerning Parks and Recreation.
   B.   It has been determined by the Town of Hammonton that a Department of
Parks and Recreation and a Recreation Leader is necessary for the promotion of
the public health, safety, welfare and quality of life of the citizens of the
Town of Hammonton.
§ 41-2. Department created.
[Amended 7-22-2013 by Ord. No. 013-2013]
   There is hereby created a Department of Parks and Recreation which
Department shall be staffed with a Recreation Leader and other pertinent staff
as deemed necessary. All positions shall be under the direction of the Mayor
and Council of the Town of Hammonton.
§ 41-3. Position of Recreation Leader created; requirements and salary.
[Amended 7-22-2013 by Ord. No. 013-2013]
   A.   There is hereby created and established the position of Recreation
Leader, which position shall be a part time or full time position, who shall be
responsible for the Department of Parks and Recreation. The Recreation Leaders,
under direction of the Mayor and Council is responsible for the planning,
promotion, development and supervision of a comprehensive recreation program to
meet the needs of the Town of Hammonton and for training and supervision of
support staff for recreation activities; seasonal employees and others which
may be from time to time hired. The Recreation Leader shall be responsible for
the formulating and supervising of recreation programs at playgrounds, parks
and recreation centers and for the preparation and promotion of exhibits,
shows, special events and displays and other related work as required.
   B.   The Recreation Leader shall be required to possess an associates or
bachelor’s degree from an accredited college or university with a major course
of study plus one year of experience in professional recreation work involving
the planning, promoting, development and supervision of a general recreation
program or a recreation program in the specialty field indicated or
alternatively possess a bachelor's degree from an accredited college or
university plus two years of experience in recreation work involving the
planning, promoting, development and supervision of a general recreation
program or a recreation program in the specialty field required.
   C.   The Recreation Leader may be required to possess a valid certificate as
a Recreation Administrator issued by the New Jersey Board of Recreation
Examiners or possess considerable knowledge of the methods and problems
involved in planning, promoting, developing and supervising a general
recreation program or a recreation program in this specialty field.
§ 41-4. Terms of employment.
[Amended 7-22-2013 by Ord. No. 013-2013]
   The Recreation Leader shall be required to work a minimum of 16 part time
hours or 40 full time hours per week and shall be required to attend all
meetings of the Park Commission and other meetings that may be required from
time to time at the discretion of the Mayor and Council.
§ 41-5. Salary of Recreation Leader.  1  
[Amended 7-22-2013 by Ord. No. 013-2013]
   The Recreation Leader for the Town of Hammonton shall receive an hourly rate
of pay commensurate with knowledge and experience and be set by local ordinance
and resolution as required by law.
 
Notes
1    Editor's Note: Amended at time of adoption of Code (see Ch. 1, General
  Provisions, Art. I).
§ 41-6. Position of Recreation Aide.
[Amended 7-22-2013 by Ord. No. 013-2013]
   There shall be and is hereby created the position of Recreation Aide, which
position shall be a seasonal position appointed by the Mayor and Common Council
of the Town of Hammonton, which appointment shall be for a maximum of six
months or less annually. Said seasonal position shall be under the direct
supervision of the Recreation Leader.
§ 41-7. [Reserved.]
[Repealed 7-22-2013 by Ord. No. 013-2013]
§ 41-8. Support staff.
   The Mayor and Common Council shall hire or appoint such additional support
staff for purposes of security, maintenance and other responsibilities as may
be required and recommended by the Recreation Supervisor.
CHAPTER 48.
PERSONNEL POLICIES
[HISTORY: Adopted by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton as
indicated in article histories. Amendments noted where applicable.]
ARTICLE I.
Holidays, Sick Leave and Vacations
   
§ 48-1.   Holidays.
   
§ 48-2.   Vacation time.
   
§ 48-3.   Sick leave.
   
§ 48-4.   Compensation for work related injuries/illness.
   
§ 48-5.   Police Department sick leave.
   
§ 48-6.   Death or serious illness in immediate family.
   
§ 48-7.   Personal days.
   
§ 48-8.   Application of civil service rules.
   
§ 48-9.   Accumulated sick leave upon retirement.
   
§ 48-10.   (Reserved)
ARTICLE II.
Termination Benefits
   
§ 48-11.   Resignation/retirement paperwork.
   
§ 48-12.   (Reserved)
   
§ 48-13.   Provisions to be retroactive.
ARTICLE III.
Health Benefits for Full-Time Employees
   
§ 48-14.   Purpose.
   
§ 48-15.   Employees to be covered.
   
§ 48-16.   (Reserved)
ARTICLE IV.
Review Process for Town Employees
   
§ 48-17.   Form and process adopted.
   
§ 48-18.   through § 48-20. (Reserved)
ARTICLE V.
Sexual Harassment
   
§ 48-21.   Purpose.
   
§ 48-22.   Sexual harassment defined.
   
§ 48-23.   Grievance procedure; repercussions.
   
§ 48-24.   Procedure for substantiated charge.
ARTICLE VI.
Defined Contribution Retirement Program
   
§ 48-25.   Eligible positions.
   
§ 48-26.   Exempt positions.
   
§ 48-27.   Applicability of other provisions.
   
§ 48-28.   Filing of article.
ARTICLE VII
Compensation
   
§ 48-29.   Direct deposit of pay checks.
GENERAL REFERENCES
   Officers and employees — See
Ch. 35.
   Police Department — See
Ch. 51.
Article I.
Holidays, Sick Leave and Vacations
[Adopted 9-13-1971 by Ord. No. 10-1971 as Art. I of Ch. 30 of the 1971 Code]
§ 48-1. Holidays.
[Amended 3-28-1977 by Ord. No. 2-1977; 2-10-1986 by Ord. No. 1-1986; 7-25-1994
by Ord. No. 22-1994]
   A.   All full-time officers and employees of the Town of Hammonton, County
of Atlantic and State of New Jersey shall be entitled to 14 holidays with pay
in each year. In addition to the 14 holidays listed below, each employee will
receive his/her birthday as an additional holiday. The 14 holidays shall be as
follows:
      (1)   New Year's Day.
      (2)   Martin Luther King Jr. Day.
      (3)   President's Day.
      (4)   Good Friday.
      (5)   Easter Monday.
      (6)   Memorial Day.
      (7)   Independence Day.
      (8)   Labor Day.
      (9)   Columbus Day.
      (10)   General Election Day.
      (11)   Veterans Day.
      (12)   Thanksgiving Day.
      (13)   Day after Thanksgiving Day.
      (14)   Christmas Day.
   B.   All holidays are listed in Subsection A and in employees' contracts.
The holidays may be accumulated and used at one time if permission is granted
by the department head. A holiday may not be used until earned unless an
employee signs, under oath, an agreement that he/she will pay back any holiday
used but not earned if the employee leaves the Town employment or does not earn
the accumulated time due to sickness or for any reason ceases to remain in the
Town's employ.
[Added 9-14-1992 by Ord. No. 31-1992]
§ 48-2. Vacation time.
[Amended 9-14-1992 by Ord. No. 31-1992; 7-25-1994 by Ord. No. 22-1994]
   A.   All full-time officers and employees of the Town of Hammonton, County
of Atlantic, State of New Jersey, under nonclassified service under Title 11A
of the New Jersey Revised Statutes, shall be entitled to the same vacation time
as is allowed to full-time officers and employees in the classified service
under Title 11A of the New Jersey Revised Statutes. If, however, the contracts
of the Town of Hammonton permit a vacation schedule that allows employees to
have more than the minimum as outlined in Title 11A of the New Jersey Revised
Statutes, then each full-time officer and employee of the Town of Hammonton
shall be entitled to at least the minimum amount of vacation time outlined in
the contract.
   B.   [Reserved]
[Repealed 12-19-2011 by Ord. No. 25-2011]
   C.   An employee shall be entitled to take those vacation days which have
been granted in the beginning of the year of employment. Written request must
be received by the department head or, in the case of a department head, the
Town Clerk/Administrator of the employee's desire to use the vacation days. The
request must be received at least two weeks prior to the first requested day
off. The department head and/or Town Clerk/Administrator shall not deny the
request without good cause. Unused vacation days may be carried for one year,
but, if not used by the end of that year, the vacation days are lost.
   D.   Vacation time shall be designated by individual, bargaining unit or
union employment contract.
[Amended 12-19-2011 by Ord. No. 25-2011]
§ 48-3. Sick leave.
   A.   Unless designated by individual, bargaining unit or union employment
contract, all full-time officers or employees of the Town of Hammonton, whether
classified or unclassified under Title 11, shall be entitled to sick leave and
pay of not less than one working day for each month of service during the
remainder of the first calendar year of service following appointment and 15
working days in each calendar year thereafter. Such sick leave shall be
accumulative.
[Amended 12-19-2011 by Ord. No. 25-2011]
   B.   Sick days may be used pursuant to §
48-3A et seq., subject to the following requirements:
[Added 9-14-1992 by Ord. No. 31-1992]
      (1)   A sick certificate must be obtained at the employee's own expense
from a licensed practicing physician and given to the Town Clerk/Administrator
if five sick days in a row are used or if 10 sick days are used in any given
year. If any employee uses more than 10 sick days, a certificate must be
obtained for each day taken.
      (2)   Sick days may be used by an employee for an immediate family
member, as defined in §
48-6. The same requirements outlined in the aforementioned section are
applicable. The employee must obtain the approval of the Mayor and Council on
recommendation of his/her department head.
      (3)   A sick certificate must also be obtained at the employee’s own
expense from a licensed practicing physician every 14 days during an extended
period (30 days or more) of sick leave.
[Added 9-24-2018 by Ord. No. 39-2018]
§ 48-4. Compensation for work related injuries/illness.
[Added 7-28-1975 by Ord. No. 16-1975; amended 12-19-2011 by Ord. No. 25-2011]
   To the extent not covered by State law, workers compensation benefits shall
be governed by individual, bargaining unit or union employment contract.
§ 48-5. Police Department sick leave.
[Amended 12-19-2011 by Ord. No. 25-2011] 1
   Police Department sick leave shall be designated by respective police
contracts.
1.   Editor's Note: See Ch. 51, Police Department.
§ 48-6. Death or serious illness in immediate family.
[Added 4-24-1989 by Ord. No. 11-1989]
   A.   "Immediate family" shall be determined by individual, bargaining unit
or union contract.
[Amended 8-28-1989 by Ord. No. 24-1989; 12-19-2011 by Ord. No. 25-2011]
   B.   Any employee who has a death in the immediate family, as defined by
their employment contract, shall receive paid funeral leave as prescribed by
individual, bargaining unit or union contract.
[Amended 12-19-2011 by Ord. No. 25-2011]
   C.   Time off for serious illness leave for an employee's immediate family
member, as prescribed by employment contract, shall be determined by
individual, bargaining unit or union contract and shall require a doctor's note
attesting to the illness of the employee's immediate family member being life
threatening.
[Amended 12-19-2011 by Ord. No. 25-2011]
§ 48-7. Personal days.
[Added 4-24-1989 by Ord. No. 11-1989; amended 7-25-1994 by Ord. No. 22-1994;
12-19-2011 by Ord. No. 25-2011]
   Employees of the Town of Hammonton shall be designated personal days as
designed by individual, bargaining unit or union contract.
§ 48-8. Application of civil service rules.
   All the rules, regulations and requirements of civil service, including
Title 11 of the New Jersey Revised Statutes, shall apply in the administration
and interpretation of this article.
§ 48-9. Accumulated sick leave upon retirement.
[Added 5-12-1975 by Ord. No. 13-1975; amended 2-25-1980 by Ord. No. 2-1980; 2-
13-1984 by Ord. No. 1-1984; 4-23-2007 by Ord. No. 6-2007 2]
   All full-time officers and employees of the Town of Hammonton, whether or
not such officers or employees are within the classified service under Title 11
of the New Jersey Revised Statutes, including but not limited to members of the
Police Department of the Town of Hammonton, who have worked for the Town of
Hammonton for 25 years or more are hereby given the right to payment of 75% of
the unused accumulated sick leave due said officer or employee upon his or her
date of retirement computed at the last salary of said full-time officer or
employee at the time of retirement. Said full-time employee or officer shall
apply for said accumulated and unused sick leave on his or her day of
retirement, to be paid in a lump sum on the first regular meeting date of the
Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton after the effective date of
his or her retirement. However, in no case shall any officer or employee of the
Town of Hammonton receive upon retirement any accumulated and unused sick leave
payment in excess of a maximum total payment of $12,000. This right shall not
be retroactive and shall only apply to all retirement subsequent to the
effective date of this article.
2.   Editor's Note: This ordinance also stated that it shall take effect
retroactive to 1-1-2007.
§ 48-10. (Reserved) 3
3.   Editor's Note: Former § 48-10, Donated Leave Program, added 8-24-1998 by
Ord. No. 26-1998, was repealed 4-28-2008 by Ord. No. 9-2008.
Article II.
Termination Benefits
[Adopted 9-26-1977 by Ord. No. 10-1977]
§ 48-11. Resignation/retirement paperwork.
[Added 4-16-2012 by Ord. No. 6-2012] 4
   Any employee wishing to resign/retire/terminate their employment with the
Town of Hammonton must first submit their intention to the Municipal Clerk with
a signed letter that includes their intended date of termination of their
employment. The Municipal Clerk shall bring the letter to the governing body at
their next scheduled meeting. The Municipal Clerk shall complete all necessary
paperwork including but not limited to the certification of service and final
salary after the Clerk has received the signed letter and the governing body
has accepted same. Any unused time off balances to which the employee is due
shall be paid with their final paycheck. Time off balances to which the
employee is due shall be determined by town code, employee handbook and
individual/bargaining unit or union employment contracts.
4.   Editor's Note: Former § 48-11, Legislative Intent, was replaced 4-16-2012
by Ord. No. 6-2012.
§ 48-12. (Reserved) 5
5.   Editor's Note: Former § 48-12, Grant of benefit, was repealed 3-26-2012 by
Ord. No. 2-2012.
§ 48-13. Provisions to be retroactive.
   This article shall be retroactive to January 1, 1977, and shall cover all
employees and officers terminating their employment or retiring after said
date.
Article III
Health Benefits for Full-Time Employees
[Adopted 9-23-1996 by Ord. No. 13-1996]
§ 48-14. Purpose.
   The cost of providing health care benefits has increased dramatically over
the years. Taxpayers in the Town of Hammonton have witnessed this increase in
cost, as many of them have seen a decrease or elimination of their own health
care benefits. It is the purpose of this article not to penalize any part-time
employee, but to reduce the cost of health care coverage that the taxpayers of
the Town of Hammonton are paying for.
§ 48-15. Employees to be covered.
[Amended 2-25-2002 by Ord. No. 5-2002; 4-28-2008 by Ord. No. 10-2008 6; 4-25-
2022 by Ord. No. 001-2022]
   The Town of Hammonton shall provide coverage to those employees that are
considered full time only, excluding elected officials. All terms and
conditions of coverage shall be specified in the appropriate employee contract.
Employees that obtain full-time status shall be provided coverage as soon as
practicable, taking into consideration the requirements of the medical
insurance provider. If an employee is already covered by virtue of an insurance
plan offered by an employer other than the Town of Hammonton, or by the
employee's spouse's employer, or otherwise, the employee may elect to waive the
Town's insurance benefit plan and may elect compensation in lieu of benefits as
permitted by the New Jersey Health Insurance Plan. Elected officials are also
excluded from the election of compensation in lieu of benefits.
   A.   The Town will continue to provide retiree health insurance benefits to
non-union employees hired by the Town as a full-time employee prior to January
1, 2014, who retire with 25 years or more of full-time service with the Town,
including premiums on their dependents, if any, subject to contributions by
employees based upon the schedule set forth in Chapter 78, P.L. 2011, a copy of
which is attached to Ord. No. 001-2022 as Schedule A (except for employees who
vested retirement health insurance benefits prior to the enactment of Chapter
78, P.L. 2011); and
   B.   The Town will provide retiree health insurance benefits to employees
who retire at age 62 or older who have worked for the Town for at least 15
years, provided the retiree pays a portion of the premium for such health
insurance coverage. The portion of the premium to be paid by the employee shall
be based upon the schedule set forth in Chapter 78, P.L. 2011, a copy of which
is attached to Ord. No. 001-2022 as Schedule A. This provision encompasses
employees who have retired and reached the minimum age of 62 years or older
with at least 15 years of service with the Town of Hammonton, and shall include
the premiums for their dependents, if any.
6.   Editor's Note: This ordinance also provided that the disqualification of
elected officials from electing compensation in lieu of benefits shall be
effective 1-1-2008, and the disqualification of elected officials from health
insurance coverage shall be effective 1-1-2009.
§ 48-16. (Reserved) 7
7.   Editor's Note: Former § 48-16, Continuation of coverage, was repealed 12-
19-2011 by Ord. No. 25-2011.
Article IV
Review Process for Town Employees
[Adopted 7-24-1995 by Ord. No. 11-1995; amended in its entirety 1-24-2011 by
Ord. No. 1-2011]
§ 48-17. Form and process adopted.
[Amended 6-25-2012 by Ord. No. 14-2012]
   A.   A separate evaluation form has been created and will now be used for
police as well as department heads;
   B.   All employees will be evaluated on their anniversary;
   C.   All evaluations are subject to review and approval of the Business
Administrator;
   D.   The Business Administrator will be responsible for evaluation of
department heads;
   E.   The evaluations will now be reviewed by Mayor and Council prior to
employee/department head promotions;
   F.   The evaluations will be used for other circumstances such as hiring
part time to full time status, review of performance after probationary period
or reprimand, or any other reason as deemed necessary by the Business
Administrator;
   G.   The evaluation now requires supporting documentation for negative
review;
   H.   The Town Clerk will complete the attendance portion of the evaluation
in comparison to the employee’s time card.
§ 48-18. through § 48-20. (Reserved)
Article V
Sexual Harassment
[Adopted 8-28-1995 by Ord. No. 20-1995]
§ 48-21. Purpose.
   The Town of Hammonton is committed to maintaining a work and public service
environment that is free from sexual harassment. This policy prohibiting such
conduct shall not only be applicable to employee-employer relations, but also
applicable to employee-public relations.
§ 48-22. Sexual harassment defined.
   " Sexual harassment" shall be defined as follows:
   A.   Any verbal harassment or abuse of a sexual nature.
   B.   Pressure for sexual activity, whether it be of a heterosexual or
homosexual nature.
   C.   Any repeated remark to a person with sexual or demeaning implication.
   D.   Any unwelcome or unsolicited touching.
   E.   Suggesting or demanding sexual involvement accompanied by implied or
explicit threats or promises concerning one's job, promotion, employment or
compensation.
§ 48-23. Grievance procedure; repercussions.
   A.   Any person who alleges harassment by a Town employee may file a
grievance with his or her immediate supervisor or, in the event that the
alleged perpetrator is the supervisor, with the Town Clerk/Administrator or the
supervising Council Committee Chairperson. All grievances must be made in
writing and set forth specifically the alleged conduct complained of. An
investigation shall be conducted by the Mayor and Council or its designated
representative within 30 days of all grievances brought pursuant to this
article. A written report of the investigation shall be provided within seven
days of its completion to the alleged perpetrator who may accept the findings
of the investigation or request a hearing before the Mayor and Council prior to
the report being accepted and becoming part of the employee's personnel file.
   B.   Filing a grievance or otherwise reporting sexual harassment will not
reflect upon the individual's status nor will it affect future employment.
§ 48-24. Procedure for substantiated charge.
   A substantiated charge against any employee shall subject this employee to
disciplinary action. Depending on the gravity of the conduct, the Mayor and
Council may:
   A.   Suspend the employee for a specific period of time, without pay.
   B.   Require the employee, as a condition of continued employment, to attend
counseling sessions or take a course of study concerning sexual harassment.
   C.   Terminate the employee.
   D.   Submit the matter to law enforcement authorities.
Article VI.
Defined Contribution Retirement Program
[Adopted 8-25-2008 by Ord. No. 24-2008; amended in its entirety 6-28-2010 by
Ord. No. 14-2010]
§ 48-25. Eligible positions.
   Pursuant to N.J.S.A. 43:15C-2, the following positions are deemed to be
eligible for and shall participate in the Defined Contribution Retirement
Program:
   A.   Business Administrator.
   B.   Water Superintendent.
   C.   Sewer Superintendent.
   D.   Recreation Director.
   E.   Road Superintendent.
   F.   Municipal Court Judge.
   G.   Mayor and Council.
§ 48-26. Exempt positions.
   Individuals serving in the following positions are exempt from Defined
Contribution Retirement Program membership (and are to be considered PERS
members), pursuant to N.J.S.A. 43:15C-2:
   A.   Tax Collector.
   B.   Chief Financial Officer (PSA membership only if hired as a full-time
employee).
   C.   Construction Code Official.
   D.   Tax Assessor.
   E.   Registered Municipal Clerk.
   F.   Electrical Subcode Official, Plumbing Subcode Official, Fire Subcode
Official, Building Subcode Official.
   G.   Public Works Manager.
   H.   Municipal Court Administrator.
   I.   Registrar of Vital Statistics.
§ 48-27. Applicability of other provisions.
   This article shall be implemented, construed and subject to the aforesaid
Chapter 92 of the Laws of 2007 (N.J.S.A. 43:15C-1 et seq.) as amended from time
to time, and any regulations or guidance documents from the Local Finance Board
or the Division of Pensions and Benefits.
§ 48-28. Filing of article.
   A copy of this article shall be filed with the Director of the Division of
Pensions and Benefits of the New Jersey Department of the Treasury.
§ 48-29. Direct deposit of pay checks.
A.   The Town of Hammonton shall require mandatory direct deposit for all
employees’ net pay.
B.   The Finance Department is authorized to allow enrollment into direct
deposit by Town employees no later than and in time for the December 4, 2015
pay checks.
CHAPTER 51
POLICE DEPARTMENT
[HISTORY: Adopted by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton as
indicated in article histories. Amendments noted where applicable.]
ARTICLE I.
Organization and Regulation
   
§ 51-1.   Composition.
   
§ 51-2.   Qualifications and procedures for appointment to Department.
   
§ 51-3.   Powers and duties of police officers.
   
§ 51-4.   (Reserved)
   
§ 51-5.   Additional rules and regulations authorized.
   
§ 51-6.   Special appointments.
   
§ 51-7.   Salaries and compensation.
   
§ 51-8.   Grounds for dismissal from Department.
   
§ 51-9.   Compensation during suspensions.
   
§ 51-10.   Disciplinary measures in lieu of dismissal.
   
§ 51-11.   Continuation of present officers.
ARTICLE II.
K-9 Corps
   
§ 51-12.   Legislative findings.
   
§ 51-13.   Purpose.
   
§ 51-14.   Injury or killing of dogs.
   
§ 51-15.   Dogs under custody or control of Department member.
   
§ 51-16.   Violations and penalties.
ARTICLE III.
Special Services Section
   
§ 51-17.   Purpose.
   
§ 51-18.   Composition.
   
§ 51-19.   Functions and duties.
   
§ 51-20.   Compensation.
   
§ 51-21.   Term of appointment.
ARTICLE IV.
Mutual Aid
   
§ 51-22.   Statutory authority; reciprocal nature of agreement.
   
§ 51-23.   Authority of Chief of Police Department.
   
§ 51-24.   Requests for assistance; rights and powers of police.
   
§ 51-25.   Costs.
   
§ 51-26.   Benefits in case of injury or death.
ARTICLE V.
Arson Investigator
   
§ 51-27.   Legislative findings.
   
§ 51-28.   Duties.
   
§ 51-29.   Qualifications.
ARTICLE VI.
Special Law Enforcement Officers
   
§ 51-30.   Definitions.
   
§ 51-31.   Position established.
   
§ 51-32.   Determination of eligibility.
   
§ 51-33.   Appointment.
   
§ 51-34.   Qualifications.
   
§ 51-35.   Training course and certification requirements.
   
§ 51-36.   Classifications of officers.
   
§ 51-37.   Uniforms.
   
§ 51-38.   Return of equipment and uniform upon termination.
   
§ 51-39.   Firearms.
   
§ 51-40.   Conduct of officers.
   
§ 51-41.   Performance of duties.
   
§ 51-42.   Hours of employment.
   
§ 51-43.   Limitation of use of officers.
GENERAL REFERENCES
   Police Department sick leave — See
Ch. 48, Art. I.
Article I.
Organization and Regulation
[Adopted 9-13-1971 by Ord. No. 10-1971 as Art. I of Ch. 49 of the 1971 Code]
§ 51-1. Composition.
[Amended 6-13-1988 by Ord. No. 12-1988; 5-8-1989 by Ord. No. 15-1989; 2-12-1990
by Ord. No. 2-1990; 4-26-1993 by Ord. No. 7-1993; 9-28-1995 by Ord. No. 25-
1995; 12-9-1996 by Ord. No. 17-1996; 9-24-2001 by Ord. No. 29-2001]
   The Police Department shall be organized as follows:
   A.   A Chief, who shall be known as the "Chief of Police." The Chief of
Police shall be the executive officer of the Department and shall be subject to
such rules, regulations and orders as may be prescribed by the Mayor and
Council.
   B.   One Captain, who shall have such duties attributable to that position
by the Chief of Police, and shall also be required to perform all duties as
shall be prescribed by the ordinances of the Town of Hammonton and by the
statutes of the State of New Jersey.
   C.   Two Lieutenants, who shall have the duties as prescribed by the Chief
of Police, the ordinances of the Town of Hammonton and by the statutes of the
State of New Jersey.
[Amended 4-16-2012 by Ord. No. 5-2012; 1-26-2015 by Ord. No. 001-2015]
   D.   Five Sergeants, who shall have the duties as prescribed by the Chief of
Police, the ordinances of the Town of Hammonton and by the statutes of the
State of New Jersey.
[Amended 4-16-2012 by Ord. No. 5-2012; 1-26-2015 by Ord. No. 001-2015; 1-28-
2019 by Ord. No. 2-2019; 2-28-2022 by Ord. No. 005-2022]
   E.   Such number of regular patrolmen as may be deemed necessary from time
to time by the Mayor and Council of the Town of Hammonton, who shall perform
such duties as police officers as shall be prescribed by the Chief of Police,
the ordinances of the Town of Hammonton and by the statutes of the State of New
Jersey.
   F.   Title of Deputy Chief shall be added having the duties as prescribed by
the Chief of Police, the ordinances of the Town of Hammonton and by the
statutes of the State of New Jersey.
[Added 10-28-2024 by Ord. No. 020-2024]
§ 51-2. Qualifications and procedures for appointment to Department.
[Amended 2-28-2000 by Ord. No. 4-2000]
   A.   Qualifications for appointment.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided by law or elsewhere in this article,
any person appointed as a police officer or a special officer shall:
         (a)   Be a citizen of the United States and a resident of the State of
New Jersey.
         (b)   Be of sound body and of good health sufficient to satisfy the
Board of Trustees of the Police and Firemen's Retirement System of New Jersey
as to eligibility for the membership in the retirement system.
         (c)   Be able to read, write and speak the English language well and
intelligently.
         (d)   Not have been convicted of any violations of laws of the State
of New Jersey or the United States, except minor traffic offenses, nor shall
have been convicted of any crime or offense involving moral turpitude.
         (e)   Provide proof of a high school diploma or an approved high
school equivalency certificate.
         (f)   Exhibit a valid New Jersey driver's license.
         (g)   Not have made false statements of a material fact or practiced
or attempted to practice any deception or fraud in the application, in tests or
in securing any appointment herein.
      (2)   No person shall be appointed as a member of the Police Division
unless he/she shall have:
         (a)   Filed a written application, on the form prescribed by the Town
of Hammonton and Hammonton Police Department, with supporting documents as
requested.
         (b)   Satisfactorily pass both a written and physical examination as
prescribed by the Town of Hammonton and Hammonton Police Department.
         (c)   Satisfactorily pass a medical examination and psychological
examination conducted by a medical doctor and a psychologist approved by the
Town.
         (d)   Submitted to a complete background investigation with results
satisfactory to the Chief of Police.
      (3)   Every member of the Police Division, prior to entering upon the
performance of duties in the office or position of the Chief of Police,
Captain, Lieutenant, Sergeant, police officer or special officer, shall take
and subscribe to an oath of affirmation to truly, faithfully and impartially
execute his/her duties to the best of his/her skill and understanding. Such
oath or affirmation shall be filed with the Clerk/Administrator of the Town of
Hammonton within 10 days after such appointment. Further, all proper employment
forms must be completed and filed prior to entering upon such duties.
   B.   Appointment procedure. The procedure which shall be followed for every
appointment to the Department is as follows:
      (1)   Every candidate must successfully pass a civil service examination
conducted by the State of New Jersey.
      (2)   Every candidate seeking appointment to the Department must appear
upon the eligibility list provided by the New Jersey Department of Civil
Service when requested by the Town of Hammonton.
      (3)   Upon eligibility determination, each candidate seeking appointment
shall be required to appear for an initial oral interview conducted by the
Chief of Police or his/her designee.
      (4)   Upon completion of the initial interview, each candidate shall
complete a comprehensive application and cooperate with the assigned detective
of the Hammonton Police Department as to all aspects of the application
including background investigations.
      (5)   Once an application has been deemed complete by the detective
completing the background investigation and all information required has been
received, each applicant shall submit to a panel interview comprised of the
following persons: Mayor, Town Administrator, Council Committee for Law and
Order, Chief of Police, Deputy Chief of Police and the Detective assigned to
the subject applicant who conducted the background investigations.
      (6)   The Interview Committee shall render a recommendation to the Chief
of Police who shall then tender a formal recommendation to Mayor and Council
for appointment consideration.
   C.   Exemption from Civil Service Examination. The Town may hire a candidate
for an entry- level law enforcement position who has not taken a civil service
examination, provided the candidate has successfully completed a full Basic
Course for Police Officers training course at a school approved and authorized
by the New Jersey Police Training commission. Nothing in this § 51-2(C) shall
be interpreted or construed to require the Town to fill an entry-level law
enforcement position with a candidate that has not completed a civil service
examination.
[Added 6-28-2021 by Ord. No. 009-2021]
   D.   Police academy: responsibility for payment. Except as otherwise
provided by law or elsewhere in this chapter, any persons appointed as a police
office or a special officer is required to attend an authorized policy academy
selected by the Town of Hammonton. The cost of policy academy shall be shared
equally by the candidate seeking appointment as a police officer and the Town
of Hammonton.
[Added 2-25-2002 by Ord. No. 4-2002; amended 6-28-2021 by Ord. No. 009-2021]
§ 51-3. Powers and duties of police officers.
   Members of the Police Department, in addition to the power conferred upon
them in criminal matters by the general laws of the state, shall have power and
it shall be their duty to arrest without warrant any person by them found
violating any of the penal ordinances of the Town or laws of the state and to
take such persons before the proper Town Judge, to be dealt with in the same
manner as if such person had been arrested upon a warrant thereto duly issued
by such Judge. It shall be their duty to report violations of law and
ordinances coming to their knowledge in any way to the Mayor and Common
Council, under the regulations governing the Department. All process to enforce
any penalty for the violation of any ordinance of the Town and any subpoena or
bench warrant issued in connection therewith may be served by them.
§ 51-4. (Reserved)
Editor's Note: Former § 51-4, Deputy Police Chief; duties and responsibilities,
as amended, was repealed 9-24-2001 by Ord. No. 29-2001.
§ 51-5. Additional rules and regulations authorized.
Editor's Note: The Town of Hammonton Police Department Rules and Regulations,
adopted 8-27-2007 by Ord. No. 26-2007, and any amendments thereto, are on file
in the Town offices. The Mayor and Common Council shall make rules and
regulations not inconsistent with the provisions of this article, the laws of
the state or ordinances of the Town of Hammonton for the government, direction,
management and discipline of the police force.
§ 51-6. Special appointments.
   Any special officer appointed to perform police duty at any special building
or premises and whose services are not paid for by the Town shall have no
authority to perform police duty nor appear as a police officer in any other
place or part of the Town than that for which he/she was specially appointed,
and the appointment of such officer shall be revocable at the will of the Mayor
and Common Council.
§ 51-7. Salaries and compensation.
   The salaries of the Chief of Police, regular patrolmen and such additional
regular patrolmen as the Mayor and Common Council shall deem it advisable to
appoint shall be paid in equal semimonthly installments. The hours during which
said members of the Police Department shall be on duty and the compensation to
them for work rendered by members of the Police Department for overtime shall
be regulated by the Mayor and Common Council under the rules and regulations of
said Department.
§ 51-8. Grounds for dismissal from Department.
   Any member of the Police Department may be expelled, by a majority vote of
the Mayor and Common Council, against whom any of the following charges are
substantiated:
   A.   Intoxication or under the influence of any drug or other compound while
on duty.
   B.   Willful disobedience of orders.
   C.   Indecent, profane or harsh language.
   D.   Unnecessary violence to a prisoner.
   E.   Absence without leave, sleeping on duty, absence from post of duty
without excuse or not properly patrolling his/her beat.
   F.   Immorality, indecency or lewdness.
   G.   Incapacity, either mental or physical, lack of energy or gross
ignorance of the laws and regulations of the Department.
   H.   Visiting, except on police business, any gambling house, poolroom or
house of ill fame or visiting, while in uniform or on duty, except on police
business, any saloon or liquor store.
   I.   Violation of any criminal law.
   J.   Making known any proposed action or movement of the force, or contents
of any order, other than to persons immediately concerned with their execution.
   K.   Conduct unbecoming an officer.
[Amended 7-23-2001 by Ord. No. 26-2001]
   L.   Conduct subversive of good order and the discipline of the force.
   M.   Failure to report a known violation of law or of the ordinances of the
Town or accepting a bribe or favor as a consideration either for the
performance or nonperformance of his/her duty.
   N.   Visiting any place of amusement while in uniform, except on police
business.
   O.   Swearing falsely in application for appointment to the force or to such
other papers as required of him/her an affidavit, as provided for in §
51-2 of this article.
   P.   Soliciting anyone to intercede with the Chief of Police or the Mayor
and Common Council in relation to changing of any beats, disposition of pending
charges or any findings of a trial before the Mayor and Common Council or for
refusing to do duty or evading duty of any kind whenever necessity requires,
whether on patrol or elsewhere and whether in uniform or not.
§ 51-9. Compensation during suspensions.
   When any member of the Police Department is suspended from office and
afterwards reinstated, he/she shall not receive any pay for the period of such
suspension, unless otherwise ordered by the Mayor and Common Council.
§ 51-10. Disciplinary measures in lieu of dismissal.
[Amended 3-25-1991 by Ord. No. 8-1991]
   A.   All charges against members of the Police Department shall be
thoroughly examined by the Mayor and Council, except in the case where the
recommended disciplinary action is a suspension of less than five days,
hereinafter known as "minor discipline," and upon any member of said Department
being convicted by the Mayor and Council of any violation of any rules,
regulations or orders of the Department, said Mayor and Council may, in lieu of
dismissal from the Department, impose such penalty as in the judgment of the
Mayor and Council is warranted by the character of the offense.
   B.   In the case of minor discipline, as defined in Subsection A, wherein a
member is charged with the violation of any of the rules, regulations or orders
of the Department and the recommended disciplinary action is a suspension of
less than five days, then such member shall, as his or her sole remedy, subject
to any union contract grievance procedure, be entitled to a departmental
hearing, which hearing shall be consistent with the provisions of N.J.S.A. 40A:
14-147.
   C.   A departmental hearing as referred to in Subsection B of this section
shall be consistent with the provisions of N.J.S.A. 40A:14-147 and shall be
convened within the time provided by New Jersey statutes made and provided.
   D.   The departmental hearing officers shall be comprised of the Chief of
Police, who shall chair the hearing, the Captain, the designated Lieutenant and
Sergeant named pursuant to §
51-1, and the Councilperson who is named as the Chairperson of Law and Order.
   E.   The departmental hearing officers shall be empowered to establish such
rules of procedure as may be necessary to ensure a fair hearing. All findings
and conclusions of the departmental hearing officers shall be by majority vote.
The decision of the departmental hearing officers shall be reported to the
member charged, in written form, which decision shall be final and with no
right to appeal to Mayor and Council.
§ 51-11. Continuation of present officers.
   All members of the existing Police Department permanently employed when this
article takes effect shall remain and continue as members of the Police
Department hereby created until their positions become vacant by death,
resignation or removal, under the procedure herein set forth.
Article II.
K-9 Corps
[Adopted 12-12-1977 by Ord. No. 14-1977]
§ 51-12. Legislative findings.
   The Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton takes notice that it
is in the interest of the public health, safety and welfare for the Police
Department of the Town of Hammonton to maintain a K-9 Corps for the protection
of the person and property of the people of the Town of Hammonton.
§ 51-13. Purpose.
   The enactment of this article is necessary to provide protection to the dogs
which are secured for K-9 Corps purposes in order that the work of said Corps
can be carried on expeditiously and at a minimum expense to the Town.
§ 51-14. Injury or killing of dogs.
   Any individual who knowingly tortures, torments, beats, kicks, strikes,
mutilates, injures, disables or kills any dog or interferes with any dog that
is being used by the Hammonton Police Department for the performance of police
duties is guilty of a violation of this article.
§ 51-15. Dogs under custody or control of Department member.
   For the purpose of this article, a dog is presumed to be performing its
duties for the Hammonton Police Department when it is in the custody or subject
to the control of any member of the Hammonton Police Department.
§ 51-16. Violations and penalties.
   Any person adjudged guilty of a violation of the provisions of this article
shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to one or more of the following: a
fine of not more than $1,000, imprisonment for a period not to exceed 90 days
or a period of community service not to exceed 90 days, at the discretion of
the Municipal Judge of the Town of Hammonton.
Article III.
Special Services Section
[Adopted 2-13-1989 by Ord. No. 3-1989]
§ 51-17. Purpose.
   It is determined to be in the public interest to create a Special Services
Section of the Police Department of the Town of Hammonton in the case of all
emergencies existing pursuant to the statutes and laws of the State of New
Jersey.
§ 51-18. Composition.
   The Special Services Section of the Hammonton Police Department shall
consist of three officials:
   A.   The Emergency Management Coordinator.
   B.   The Deputy Emergency Management Coordinator.
   C.   The Fire Marshal.
§ 51-19. Functions and duties.
   A.   The Emergency Management Coordinator shall be responsible for
organizing all forces of the Town of Hammonton and any forces supplied by
volunteer groups or neighboring communities in the case of any emergency
occurring within the corporate boundaries of the Town of Hammonton.
   B.   The Deputy Emergency Management Coordinator shall have all of the
functions of the Emergency Management Coordinator in his/her absence as well as
assisting the Emergency Management Coordinator in preparing an Emergency
Management Plan to be submitted to the New Jersey State Police and all other
appropriate agencies, which plan shall detail the organization and procedures
in place in case of all emergencies.
   C.   The Fire Marshal shall be that individual entrusted with inspecting,
reporting and otherwise dealing with all emergencies relating to fires or
potential fires within the Town of Hammonton.
   D.   The Special Services Station shall manage all emergencies but shall be
within the Police Department and subject to the direction and control of the
Police Chief of the Town of Hammonton.
§ 51-20. Compensation.
   The wages of all members of the Special Services Section as defined in §
51-18 hereof shall be as set forth in the Salary Ordinance of the Town of
Hammonton. Editor's Note: The current Salary Ordinance is on file in the office
of the Clerk/Administrator.
§ 51-21. Term of appointment.
   The first appointments to the within offices shall expire on December 31,
1993. All subsequent appointments shall be for five-year terms.
Article IV.
Mutual Aid
[Adopted 10-22-1990 by Ord. No. 16-1990]
§ 51-22. Statutory authority; reciprocal nature of agreement.
   Pursuant to N.J.S.A. 40A:14-156.1, there is hereby established a mutual aid
agreement with all other municipalities in Atlantic County, New Jersey, which
adopt a reciprocal ordinance to provide mutual police aid in case of emergency.
This agreement shall apply whenever the Town of Hammonton may have an emergency
within its boundaries requiring additional police assistance to protect lives
and property or to assist in suppressing a riot or disorder and whenever
another municipality in this county which has enacted a reciprocal ordinance
may experience a similar emergency requiring additional police assistance.
§ 51-23. Authority of Chief of Police Department.
   The Chief or head of the Police Department of the Town of Hammonton is
authorized to request assistance from the Chief or other head of the Police
Department of another municipality within Atlantic County to provide aid during
and after said emergency.
§ 51-24. Requests for assistance; rights and powers of police.
   The Chief or head of the Police Department of the Town of Hammonton shall
provide assistance to another municipality or municipalities in Atlantic County
making a valid request to supply such personnel and equipment as required to
the extent possible without endangering person or property within the Town of
Hammonton. The members of the Police Department supplying aid shall have the
same powers, authority, rights and immunities of the members of the police
force of the municipality to which assistance is rendered.
§ 51-25. Costs.
   The Town of Hammonton shall, upon providing assistance to another
municipality which has enacted a reciprocal mutual aid ordinance, assume the
cost and expense of providing its personnel and equipment to the requesting
municipality, except in such instances when the requesting municipality
receives state or federal aid by way of reimbursement. In such circumstances,
the cost incurred shall be submitted to the community requesting assistance.
§ 51-26. Benefits in case of injury or death.
   Members of the police force of the Town of Hammonton suffering injury, or
their legal representative, if death results, while rendering assistance in
another municipality shall be entitled to all such benefits they would have
realized if injury or death had occurred in the performance of normal duties in
the Town of Hammonton.
Article V.
Arson Investigator
[Adopted 5-20-1991 by Ord. No. 12-1991]
§ 51-27. Legislative findings.
   The Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton has determined that,
in the interests of an efficient Police Department and in the interests of
public health, safety and welfare, there shall be established a position of
Arson Investigator.
§ 51-28. Duties.
   Upon direction, the Arson Investigator performs the work involved in
investigating fires which are caused by arson or of such suspicious origin as
to necessitate investigation and performs any other work required or related to
fire investigation and causation.
§ 51-29. Qualifications.
   Any person maintaining this position must meet the requirements set forth by
the New Jersey Department of Civil Service Division of Local Government
Services. Provisional appointments to this position shall be permitted to allow
for the completion of any training or courses which may be required.
Article VI.
Special Law Enforcement Officers
[Adopted 5-23-2005 by Ord. No. 8-2005]
§ 51-30. Definitions.
   All words and phrases used in this article shall be defined as stated in
N.J.S.A. 40A:14-146.9, which shall be deemed to apply to such words and phrases
used herein.
§ 51-31. Position established.
   There is hereby established the position of Special Law Enforcement Officer
in and for the Town of Hammonton.
§ 51-32. Determination of eligibility.
   Before any special law enforcement officer is appointed, the Chief of Police
or, in the absence of the Chief, other chief law enforcement official of the
Town, shall ascertain the eligibility and qualification of the applicant and
report these determinations, in writing, to the Mayor and Council, as
established by N.J.S.A. 40A:14-146.10 et seq.
§ 51-33. Appointment.
   Special law enforcement officers may be appointed for terms not to exceed
one year, and the appointments may be revoked by the Mayor and Council for
cause, after adequate hearing, unless the appointment is for four months or
less, in which event, the appointment may be revoked without cause or hearing.
Nothing herein shall be construed to require reappointment upon the expiration
of the term. The special law enforcement officers so appointed shall not be
members of the police force of the Town, and their powers and duties shall
cease at the expiration of the term for which appointed.
§ 51-34. Qualifications.
   A.   No person may be appointed as a special law enforcement officer unless
the person:
      (1)   Is a resident of this state during the term of appointment.
      (2)   Is able to read, write and speak the English language and has a
high school diploma or equivalent.
      (3)   Is sound in body and in good health.
      (4)   Is of good moral character.
      (5)   Has not been convicted of any offense involving dishonesty or which
would make him unfit to perform the duties of his office.
      (6)   Has successfully undergone the same psychological testing that is
required of all full-time police officers in the Town or, with regard to a
special law enforcement officer hired for a seasonal period which required
psychological testing of its full-time police officers, has successfully
undergone a program of psychological testing approved by the Police Training
Commission established in the Department of Law and Public Safety, pursuant to
N.J.S.A. 52:17B-70.
   B.   Every applicant for the position of special law enforcement officer
shall have fingerprints taken, which fingerprints shall be filed with the
Division of State Police and the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
   C.   No person shall be appointed to serve as a special law enforcement
officer if that person serves as a special law enforcement officer in another
municipality, nor shall any permanent, regularly appointed, full-time police
officer of any other municipality in this state be appointed as a special law
enforcement officer. No public official with responsibility for setting law
enforcement policy or exercising authority over the budget of any municipality
in this state or supervision of the Police Department of a municipality in this
state shall be appointed as a special law enforcement officer.
   D.   Any person who, at any time prior to his appointment, is a duly
qualified, fully trained, full-time officer in any municipality in this state
and who is separated from that prior service in good standing shall be eligible
to serve as a special law enforcement officer consistent with the guidelines
promulgated by the Police Training Commission. If the Police Training
Commission waives the training requirements which are required by statute, the
Mayor and Council, if they choose, may appoint such person as a special law
enforcement officer.
§ 51-35. Training course and certification requirements.
   No person may commence his duties as a special law enforcement officer
unless he has successfully completed the training course and the Police
Training Commission has waived certification requirements.
§ 51-36. Classifications of officers.
   There are hereby established two classifications of special law enforcement
officers:
   A.   Class One. Officers of this class shall be authorized to perform
routine traffic detail, spectator control and similar duties. Class One
officers shall have the power to issue summonses for disorderly persons and
petty disorderly persons offenses, violations of municipal ordinances and
violations of Title 39 of the Revised Statutes. The use of a firearm by an
officer of this class shall be strictly prohibited, and no Class One officer
shall be assigned any duties which may require the carrying or use of a
firearm.
   B.   Class Two. Officers of this class shall be authorized to exercise full
powers and duties similar to those of a permanent, regularly appointed, full-
time police officer. The use of a firearm by an officer of this class may be
authorized only after the officer has been fully certified as prescribed by the
Police Training Commission.
§ 51-37. Uniforms.
   Every special law enforcement officer, prior to the commencement of his
duties, shall be furnished with a uniform, which shall identify the officer's
function. The uniform shall include but not be limited to, a hat and
appropriate badges which shall bear an identification number or name tag and
the name of the Town of Hammonton. The uniform shall also include an insignia
issued by the Police Training Commission which clearly indicates the officer's
status as a special law enforcement officer and the type of certification
issued by the Commission. All special law enforcement officers, prior to the
commencement of duties, shall be in uniform properly displaying the appropriate
insignia.
§ 51-38. Return of equipment and uniform upon termination.
   Whenever a special law enforcement officer's appointment is revoked or a
special law enforcement officer is not reappointed upon the expiration of term,
the special law enforcement officer shall return to the officer in charge of
the station house all of the Town of Hammonton's issued uniforms, badges and
equipment within 15 days of the revocation or expiration of term.
§ 51-39. Firearms.
   The special law enforcement officers shall carry and return firearms
pursuant to the guidelines established in N.J.S.A. 40A:14-146.14e.
§ 51-40. Conduct of officers.
   Special law enforcement officers shall comply with the rules and regulations
applicable to the conduct and decorum of the permanent, regularly appointed
police officers of the Town, as well as any rules and regulations applicable to
the conduct and decorum of special law enforcement officers.
§ 51-41. Performance of duties.
   A.   A special law enforcement officer shall be under the supervision and
direction of the Chief of Police or, in the absence of the Chief, other chief
law enforcement officer of the Town and shall perform his duties only in the
Town unless in fresh pursuit of any person pursuant to Chapter 156 of Title 2A
of the New Jersey Statutes.
   B.   The Chief Police or, in the absence of the Chief, other chief law
enforcement officer of the Town may authorize special law enforcement officers,
when on duty, to exercise the same powers and authority as permanent, regularly
appointed police officers of the Town, including but not limited to the
carrying of firearms and the power to arrest, subject to rules and regulations.
Any such authorization shall not be inconsistent with the certification
requirements of §
51-35 herein.
§ 51-42. Hours of employment.
   The provisions of N.J.S.A. 40A:14-146.15 regarding the maximum hours of
employment of special law enforcement officers is hereby incorporated as if
stated in full herein.
§ 51-43. Limitation of use of officers.
   Special law enforcement officers may be employed only to assist the Town's
law enforcement unit but may not be employed to replace or substitute for full-
time regular police officers or in any way diminish the number of full-time
officers employed by the Town.
CHAPTER 53.
PUBLIC UTILITIES DEPARTMENT; PUBLIC WORKS SUPERINTENDENT
[HISTORY: Adopted by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton 1-
24-2011 by Ord. No. 3-2011. Amendments noted where applicable.]
   
§ 53-1.   Purpose.
   
§ 53-2.   Department of Public Utilities.
   
§ 53-3.   Public Works Superintendent.
   
§ 53-4.   Subordinate positions created for department.
   
§ 53-5.   Effective date; approval required.
GENERAL REFERENCES
   Water and Sewer Subcommittee — See
Ch. 6, Art. VI.
   Sewers — See
Ch. 226.
   Water — See
Ch. 275.
§ 53-1. Purpose.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to combine the Town of Hammonton's
existing water and wastewater treatment plant operations into one operational
department and in doing so to merge employees from each department into one
single department with one department head to oversee the newly established
Public Utilities Department.
§ 53-2. Department of Public Utilities.
   There is hereby created a Department of Public Utilities, which Department
shall be staffed with full-time and part-time positions under the direction of
the Mayor and Council of the Town of Hammonton. The creation of the Department
of Public Utilities will inactivate the previous Departments of Water and
Sewer.
§ 53-3. Public Works Superintendent.
   A.   There is hereby created and established the position of Public Works
Superintendent, which position shall be a full-time position. The Public Works
Superintendent shall be a department head and responsible for the Department of
Public Utilities. The Public Works Superintendent, under the direction of the
Mayor and Council, is responsible for the day-to-day operations of the Public
Utilities Department and its employees.
   B.   The Public Works Superintendent must possess the current NJ DEP
licenses required for both wastewater and water treatment in the Town of
Hammonton. Upon initial merger, the Public Works Superintendent must achieve
the required NJ DEP licenses required to operate the water utility within three
years.
   C.   Terms of employment. The Public Works Superintendent shall be required
to work a minimum of 40 hours per week and shall be required to attend all
meetings pertaining to his/her respective Department.
§ 53-4. Subordinate positions created for department.
[Amended 2-23-2015 by Ord. No. 002-2015]
   There shall be created positions for existing employees as well as future
employees in the Department of Public Utilities per New Jersey Civil Service
Commission rules and regulations and NJ DEP Succession Plan.
   Title Code 07187   Sewer Repairer 2/Water Repairer 2/Sr Water Treatment
Plant Operator
   Title Code 07123   Sewer Repairer 1/Water Repairer 1/Water Treatment Plant
Operator
   Title Code 10053   Water Treatment Plant Operator Apprentice
   Title Code 02248   Laborer 1
§ 53-5. Effective date; approval required.
   This chapter shall take effect after final passage and publication, as
provided by law, together with approval of the Civil Service Commission of the
State of New Jersey; effective date January 26, 2011.
CHAPTER 54.
PUBLIC WORKS MANAGER/BUSINESS ADMINISTRATOR
[HISTORY: Adopted by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton 3-
26-2012 by Ord. No. 4C-2012. Amendments noted where applicable.]
   §
54-1.   Establishment of Business Administrator.
   §
54-2.   Term; removal; absence of Business Administrator.
   §
54-3.   Compensation of Business Administrator.
   §
54-4.   Duties and responsibilities of Business Administrator.
   §
54-5.    Authority of the Mayor and Council.
   §
54-6.   Classification of position of Business Administrator.
   §
54-7.   Establishment of Public Works Manager.
   §
54-8.   Term; certification; qualifications; absence; and removal of Public
Works Manager.
   §
54-9.   Compensation for Public Works Manager.
   §
54-10.   Duties and responsibilities of Public Works Manager.
   §
54-11.   Authority of Mayor and Council.
   §
54-12.   Classification of position of Public Works Manager.
GENERAL REFERENCES
Water and Sewer Subcommittee - See
Ch. 6, Art. VI.
Sewers - See
Ch. 226.
Water - See
Ch. 275.
§ 54-1. Establishment of Business Administrator.
[Added 3-26-2012 by Ord. No. 4C-2012; amended 5-20-2019 by Ord. No. 10-2019]
There shall be an office of the Business Administrator. The Business
Administrator shall be a person qualified by education, training and experience
to perform the duties of his or her office. He or she shall devote his or her
entire time to the duties of the office and shall not engage in any other
employment, except with the permission of the Mayor and Council. He or she
shall be under the direct supervision of the Mayor and Council.
§ 54-2. Term; removal; absence of Business Administrator.
[Added 3-26-2012 by Ord. No. 4C-2012; amended 5-20-2019 by Ord. No. 10-2019]
   A.   Term. The term of office of the Business Administrator shall be at the
pleasure of the Mayor and Council. The first six months of any such appointment
to the position of Business Administrator shall be for a probationary period.
Prior to the completion of the six-month probationary period, the appointee to
the position of Business Administrator may be removed from office by a vote of
a majority of the full membership of the Mayor and Council.
   B.   Removal from office. After the probationary period, the Business
Administrator may be removed by a two-thirds vote of the Mayor and Council. The
resolution of removal shall become effective three months after its adoption by
the Mayor and Council. Notwithstanding the previous sentence, Mayor and Council
may provide that the resolution shall have immediate effect; provided, however,
that the Mayor and Council shall cause to be paid to the Business Administrator
forthwith any unpaid balance of his or her salary and his or her salary for the
next three calendar months following the adoption of the resolution. The
Business Administrator shall not obtain or be granted any rights of tenure.
   C.   Absence or disability of the Business Administrator. During the absence
or disability of the Business Administrator, the Mayor and the Council may, by
resolution, appoint an appointed official or employee of the Town to perform
the duties of Business Administrator during such absence or disability. In the
event the Business Administrator is unexpectedly absent prior to a regularly
scheduled Council meeting, the Mayor may appoint an appointed official or
employee of the Town to serve until the next regularly scheduled Council
meeting. The absence or disability of the Business Administrator shall be
limited to three continuous months, after which time the absence or disability
may be deemed a vacancy by the Mayor and Council. Unless otherwise provided
herein, no acting Business Administrator shall be paid more than his or her
regular salary while serving in that capacity, but he or she shall be
reimbursed for all necessary expenses incurred in the performance of that
office.
§ 54-3. Compensation of Business Administrator.
[Added 3-26-2012 by Ord. No. 4C-2012; amended 5-20-2019 by Ord. No. 10-2019]
The compensation of the Business Administrator shall be as fixed in the Salary
Ordinance of the Town.
§ 54-4. Duties and responsibilities of Business Administrator.
[Added 3-26-2012 by Ord. No. 4C-2012; amended 5-20-2019 by Ord. No. 10-2019]
The Business Administrator shall be responsible to the Mayor and Council for
the proper and efficient administration of the business affairs of the Town.
The Business Administrator's duties and responsibilities shall relate to the
management of all the Town's business, except those duties and responsibilities
conferred upon other Town officials by state statute, other applicable laws,
rules and regulations promulgated by state, county or Town ordinances or such
duties as the Mayor and Council shall reserve or delegate onto itself or to
others. The Business Administrator shall see that all ordinances, resolutions
and policies of the Mayor and Council and all state and federal laws requiring
municipal action are faithfully carried out by those persons responsible for
doing so. For the purpose of carrying out the responsibilities of his or her
office, the Business Administrator shall develop and promulgate for adoption by
the Mayor and Council sound administrative, personnel and purchasing practices
and procedures for all departments, offices, boards, commissions and agencies
of the municipality, all for the purpose of increasing the effectiveness and
efficiency of Town government. The Business Administrator shall perform all of
the duties hereinafter enumerated and such other duties as may be assigned by
the Mayor and Council. In addition, the Business Administrator shall be
responsible for the following enumerated duties:
   A.   Daily operation. Implement all policies of the Town necessary to carry
out daily operations and activities of the Town by correspondence, review of
minutes and personal contact.
   B.   Information and complaints. Inform the Mayor and Council and the
residents of the municipality on all matters relating to the activities and
operations of municipal government; receive and follow up on complaints on all
matters and apprise the Mayor and Council thereof.
   C.   Public information. Edit and compile public information for
distribution to the Mayor and Council.
   D.   Recommendations. Continuously study all activities and operations of
municipal government and recommend changes for the purpose of increasing
efficiency, economy and effectiveness; recommend such rules and regulations as
shall be deemed necessary, with the approval of the Mayor and Council, for the
conduct of administrative procedures.
   E.   Advice. Advise the Mayor and Council with respect to all pertinent
information necessary to assist it with the establishment of policies and
decisions.
   F.   Reports. Prepare and present to the Mayor and Council reports required
from time to time on municipal affairs and prepare an annual report of the
Business Administrator's work for the benefit of the Mayor and Council and the
public.
   G.   Attendance. Attend all regular meetings of the Mayor and Council with
the right to speak, but not to vote, on all agenda items and attend other
meetings as directed by the Mayor and Council or as necessary to carry out the
duties of Business Administrator. The Business Administrator shall receive
notice of all special meetings of the Mayor and Council and all advisory
committees, boards, commissions and other agencies of the Town. Attend all
meetings of the Administration Committee.
   H.   Liaison. Serve as liaison to all departments, advisory committees,
boards, commissions and other agencies of the Town.
   I.   Labor Relations/Human Resources. Oversee and assist in the
administration and resolution of labor relations and human resources issues
involving the employees of the Town of Hammonton.
   J.   Town Engineer. Consult with and act as a liaison between the Mayor and
Council and the Town Engineer regarding all operations and policy matters.
   K.   Financial Management. Be responsible for providing oversight of the
Town's daily financial operations, including, but not limited to, providing
supervision of the Town accountant.
   L.   Budgets. Be responsible for the preparation of the operating and
capital improvement budgets for presentation to the Mayor and Council and for
administration of the budget approval process by the governing body. In
preparing the proposed budget, the Business Administrator shall direct
department heads to submit their portion thereon and shall request all
supporting data he or she deems necessary. The Business Administrator shall
assist members of the governing body and department heads in preparing their
input to the municipal budget. The Business Administrator shall thoroughly
review all budget requests and submit recommendations with respect thereto to
the Mayor and Council in a timely fashion.
   M.   Purchasing. Be in charge of reviewing all requisitions from all
departments for materials, equipment and supplies and certifying the receipt of
the same. He or she shall require the various departments to furnish an
adequate inventory of all materials, equipment and supplies in stock and to
recommend the sale of any surplus, obsolete or unused equipment when authorized
by the Mayor and Council.
   N.   Examine and inquire. Have the power to investigate, examine or inquire
into the affairs or operations of any department, commission, office, board or
agency of the municipal government, unless prohibited by law.
   O.   Public information. Implement and enforce the policies of the Mayor and
Council with respect to the compiling and release of public information.
   P.   Coordination of information. Integrate and coordinate the functions of
all departments, commissions, boards, agencies, offices and officials and
maintain liaison with the local school systems. The Business Administrator
shall be responsible for continuously improving communications among the
various Town personnel, departments, commissions, agencies, boards and
governing bodies.
   Q.   Recommendation of experts and consultants. Recommend the employment of
experts and consultants to perform work and render advice in connection with
Town projects.
   R.   Supervision of personnel. Subject to law, supervise all personnel of
the Town through the respective department heads and direct the business
activities of all Town departments, recommending to the Mayor and Council or
its designated committees the employment and replacement of personnel as may be
required in said departments within the limits prescribed by the budget. The
Business Administrator shall have no authority over the operations of the
Police Department delegated by law to the Chief of Police.
   S.   Enforcement of law and contracts. Determine that all terms and
conditions imposed in favor of the municipality or its inhabitants in any
statute, public utility franchise or other contract regulation or ordinance are
faithfully kept and performed and, upon learning of any violation thereof,
apprise the Mayor and Council.
   T.   Public improvements. Recommend the need for, the nature of and the
location of all public improvements and coordinate and expedite the execution
of those public improvements authorized by the Mayor and Council.
   U.   Safety responsibilities. Develop and implement all necessary safety
instructions and training for employees, Town personnel and Town officials.
   V.   Recycling. Serve as recycling coordinator for the Town and oversee all
actions necessary to fill the Town's recycling requirements.
   W.   Grants. Investigate the availability of and report to the Mayor and
Council the feasibility of obtaining grants from federal, state and private
sources and apply for and administer such grants as are authorized by the Mayor
and Council.
   X.   Other duties. The Business Administrator shall perform such additional
administrative duties and functions as may be from time to time assigned by the
Mayor and Council.
§ 54-5. Authority of the Mayor and Council.
[Added 3-26-2012 by Ord. No. 4C-2012; amended 5-20-2019 by Ord. No. 10-2019]
Nothing herein shall derogate or reduce the powers and duties of the Mayor and
Council or authorize the Business Administrator to exercise the power and
duties thereof except as authorized.
§ 54-6. Classification of position of Business Administrator.
[Added 3-26-2012 by Ord. No. 4C-2012; amended 5-20-2019 by Ord. No. 10-2019]
It is the intention of Mayor and Council in creating this position to deem same
as "unclassified" for civil service purposes. The person selected shall utilize
the local title "Municipal Department Head."
§ 54-7. Establishment of Public Works Manager.
[Added 5-20-2019 by Ord. No. 10-2019]
There shall be an office of the Public Works Manager. The Public Works Manager
shall be a person qualified by education, training and experience to perform
the duties of his or her office. The Public Works Manager shall devote his or
her entire time to the duties of the office and shall not engage in any other
employment, except with the permission of the Mayor and Council. The Public
Works Manager shall be under the direct supervision of the Mayor and Council.
§ 54-8. Term; Certification; Qualifications; Absence; and Removal of Public
Works Manager.
[Added 5-20-2019 by Ord. No. 10-2019]
   A.   Term. The term of office of the Public Works Manager shall be at the
pleasure of the Mayor and Council. The first six months of any such appointment
to the position of Public Works Manager shall be for a probationary period.
Prior to the completion of the six-month probationary period, the appointee to
the position of Public Works Manager may be removed from office by a vote of a
majority of the full membership of the Mayor and Council.
   B.   Certification. No person shall be selected to perform the duties of
Public Works Manager unless he holds a public works manager certificate issued
pursuant to N.J.S. 40A:9- 154.6c, which certificate has not been revoked or
suspended in accordance with the provisions of N.J.S. 40A:9-154.6f.
Notwithstanding the previous sentence, when a vacancy occurs with the Public
Works Manager, Town Council may select, for a period not to exceed one year and
commencing on the date of the vacancy, a person who does not hold a certified
public works manager certificate to perform on an interim basis, the duties of
the Public Works Manager.
   C.   Qualifications. The Public Works Manager, at a minimum, must have
served at least five of the last ten years in a position of public or private
public works, construction management or civil engineering and devoted no less
than 50% of the person's work time to daily, direct supervision of public works
activities.
   D.   Absence. During the absence or disability of the Public Works Manager,
the Mayor and the Council may, by resolution, appoint an appointed official or
employee of the Town to perform the duties of Public Works Manager during such
absence or disability. In the event the Public Works Manager is unexpectedly
absent prior to a regularly scheduled Council meeting, the Mayor may appoint an
appointed official or employee of the Town to serve until the next regularly
scheduled Council meeting. The absence or disability of the Public Works
Manager shall be limited to three continuous months, after which time the
absence or disability may be deemed a vacancy by the Mayor and Council. Unless
otherwise provided herein, no acting Public Works Manager shall be paid more
than his or her regular salary while serving in that capacity, but he or she
shall be reimbursed for all necessary expenses incurred in the performance of
that office.
   E.   Removal. After the probationary period, the Public Works Manager may be
removed by a two-thirds vote of the Mayor and Council. The resolution of
removal shall become effective three months after its adoption by the Mayor and
Council. The Mayor and Council may provide that the resolution shall have
immediate effect; provided, however, that the Mayor and Council shall cause to
be paid to the Public Works Manager forthwith any unpaid balance of his or her
salary and his or her salary for the next three calendar months following the
adoption of the resolution. The Public Works Manager shall not obtain or be
granted any rights of tenure.
§ 54-9. Compensation for Public Works Manager. 
[Added 5-20-2019 by Ord. No. 10-2019]
The compensation of the Public Works Manager shall be as fixed in the Salary
Ordinance of the Town.
§ 54-10. Duties and responsibilities of Public Works Manager. 
[Added 5-20-2019 by Ord. No. 10-2019]
The Public Works Manager shall be responsible to take charge of and be
responsible for the construction, operation and maintenance of all public
buildings, grounds, streets, roads and other facilities, including general
administrative responsibilities for the Town sewer and water systems, the
cutting of brush, mowing of grass and removal of snow, the cleaning of ditches,
the maintenance of parks and the care of other public works in the Town,
subject to the orders and directions of the Council. In addition, he or she
shall:
   A.   Continue/complete current development projects and initiatives.
   B.   Analyze construction and infrastructure redevelopment needs and provide
recommendations and reports to Mayor and Council.
   C.   Interact with the residents and taxpayers of the Town of Hammonton and
be available to supervise employees during emergencies in consultation and
cooperation with the Emergency Management Coordinator.
   D.   Set up and maintain adequate inventory and control thereof of all
materials and supplies needed for the maintenance and repair of all public
works under his or her supervision.
   E.   Submit to the Mayor and Council a monthly report of all work performed,
services furnished and inspections made during the previous month.
   F.   Submit to the Mayor and Council and the Town Engineer his or her
recommendations for budget appropriations for the ensuing year.
   G.   Recommend for approval the expenditure of all funds by voucher
chargeable against the Public Works Manager budget.
   H.   Inspect or be responsible for the inspection and maintenance of all
storm sewer lines in the Town individually or in conjunction with other
designated officials.
   I.   Receive and investigate all complaints from residents and taxpayers of
the Town relating to the operations under his or her jurisdiction, take
appropriate action and report results to the Mayor and Council.
   J.   Attend all Public Works Manager Committee meetings, including, those
pertaining to road, sewer, water and parks and playgrounds.
   K.   Supervise the operation, maintenance and repair of municipally owned
equipment used in the performance of the work assigned to him or her.
   L.   Set up, keep and maintain all the necessary books, records, field
notes, maps, surveys and similar records necessary to perform the duties of his
or her office and turn over all such reports to his or her successor or the
Town Council upon the termination of his or her employment by the Town.
   M.   Recommend to the appropriate committee chairperson the need for repairs
and replacements to municipally owned equipment, structures, buildings and
grounds.
   N.   Supervise the performance of the work of personnel assigned to his or
her jurisdiction.
   O.   Supervisory responsibility for planning, scheduling, directing,
controlling and coordinating the daily and long term operations of public works
activities, as applicable, including the utilization of manpower, equipment,
materials, funds, and other available resources.
   P.   Perform such additional public works duties and functions as may be
form time to time assigned by Mayor and Council.
§ 54-11. Authority of Mayor and Council. 
[Added 5-20-2019 by Ord. No. 10-2019]
Nothing herein shall derogate or reduce the powers and duties of the Mayor and
Council or authorize the Public Works Manager to exercise the power and duties
thereof except as authorized.
§ 54-12. Classification of position of Public Works Manager.
[Added 5-20-2019 by Ord. No. 10-2019]
It is the intention of Mayor and Council in creating this position to deem same
as "unclassified" for civil service purposes. The person selected shall utilize
the local title "Public Works Manager."
CHAPTER 55.
PURCHASING
[HISTORY: Adopted by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton 3-
23-1992 by Ord. No. 7-1992; amended in its entirety 3-24-1997 by Ord. No. 1-
1997; 9-24-2007 by Ord. No. 30-2007; 7-28-2008 by Ord. No. 23-2008; 1-24-2011
by Ord. No. 2-2011. Subsequent amendments noted where applicable.]
   
§ 55-1.   Purpose.
   
§ 55-2.   Applicability.
   
§ 55-3.   Procedures.
   
§ 55-4.   Compliance with state law.
GENERAL REFERENCES
   Warrants — See
Ch. 65.
§ 55-1. Purpose.
   In order to provide for control and accountability over all expenditures by
the Town of Hammonton, and in recognition of the essential need to maintain
viable procedures so that the business operations of local government may
proceed in an efficient and timely manner, this chapter shall be adopted, which
shall set forth the procedures to be followed in order to make purchases by any
department head (or in his/her absence, the next in charge in the Department)
of the Town of Hammonton.
§ 55-2. Applicability.
   The regulations and requirements outlined herein shall be applicable for all
purchases by all department heads of the Town of Hammonton.
§ 55-3. Procedures.
   It is determined that each Town department shall be allocated funds for the
annual operation of said department. The head of that department is responsible
for purchases on behalf of the department and shall:
   A.   First obtain a verbal or written quote/cost for the proposed or
requested purchase.
   B.   Accurately complete and sign a requisition and submit same to the
Purchasing Agent of the Town of Hammonton.
   C.   Wait until the Purchasing Agent has issued a purchase order (which
authorizes the purchase to be made) describing the item to be purchased and
cost of same, before actually making the purchase. The head of the department
shall issue the purchase order to the vendor in person or by fax, and this
authorizes the vendor to remit the product or service and guarantees that
payment of same will be made by the Town of Hammonton so long as the product or
service is remitted to the satisfaction of the Town of Hammonton.
   D.   If a product or service must be ordered, then it is the department
head's responsibility to review the monthly list of bills to be paid and sign
off on same that all bills listed are accurate and have been received to the
satisfaction of the Town of Hammonton. Products or service on order and not
received by the Town should not be paid for ahead of time. The purchase order
is the legal document authorizing the order or purchase and guaranteeing
payment of same.
   E.   The department head is responsible for working within his/her annual
budget. This means the department head should anticipate all possible
expenditures for the budget year and pre-encumber those funds so that he/she
may work with the remaining department budget balance.
   F.   The department head may not exceed his/her allocated budget in any
given year.
   G.   The department head must review his/her department's budget balances
which appear on the monthly Council meeting agendas e-mailed to the department
head under the Town Clerk report.
   H.   For purchases/requisitions exceeding $100 the Council Committee must
also sign a requisition before it is submitted to the Purchasing Agent for
review and approval and issuance of a purchase order.
   I.   For purchases for products or services exceeding $5,400 or the
percentage of the bid threshhold as determined by the State of New Jersey for
any particular year, the department head must attempt to receive two or more
quotes and attach same to his/her requisition prior to Council Committee Chair
signature.
   J.   For purchases exceeding $17,500, or the amount set by the State of New
Jersey (Pay to Play Law) in any given budget year, the department head must
contact the Purchasing Agent to ascertain how the purchase may be made.
   K.   For purchases exceeding $36,000 or the amount set by State of New
Jersey bidding laws in any given year, the department head must contact the
Purchasing Agent so that they may formally bid that product or service.
   L.   Multiple purchases of the same product or service in any given budget
year must be calculated in total to determine how the purchase can legally be
made.
   M.   Should an emergency arise, the department head must contact the
Purchasing Agent for direction prior to making any purchase for product or
service.
   N.   Should the department head receive a letter during any given budget
year from the Purchasing Agent mandating "no further spending" in his/her
department due to previous overexpenditures and/or lack of sufficient funding
in that department, the department head must comply. Should the department head
continue to make purchases at any point after receiving this letter, he/she may
automatically be suspended.
   O.   Should a department head turn in an incomplete requisition to the
Purchasing Agent it will be returned with a letter stating the reason for same,
and if the purchase predates the requisition and purchase order, it will be
taken to the Mayor and Council for review and the department head will be
subject to disciplinary action for the unauthorized purchase.
   P.   All purchases (except annual department appropriations following the
above procedures) charged to bond ordinances, trusts, grants, etc., must also
be approved by the Mayor and Council before the purchase is made.
   Q.   No final payment shall be made to a vendor until an invoice is attached
to the purchase order being paid, as well as the packing slip. If no packaging
slip is attached, then the department head receiving the product or service
must sign off on a receipt of services/product form.
§ 55-4. Compliance with state law.
   Any purchase made by the Town of Hammonton is still governed by the State of
New Jersey laws.
CHAPTER 65.
WARRANTS
[HISTORY: Adopted by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton Code
as indicated in article histories. Amendments noted where applicable.]
ARTICLE I.
General Warrants
   
§ 65-1.   Signatures.
   
§ 65-2.   Indebtedness.
ARTICLE II.
Payroll Account
   
§ 65-3.   Approval of account; deposits.
   
§ 65-4.   Approval of warrants.
   
§ 65-5.   Signing of warrants.
   
§ 65-6.   Certifications.
GENERAL REFERENCES
   Officers and employees — See
Ch. 35.
   Purchasing — See
Ch. 55.
Article I.
General Warrants
[Adopted 9-13-1971 by Ord. No. 10-1971 as Ch. 155 of the 1971]
§ 65-1. Signatures.
   All warrants drawn on the Treasurer of the Town of Hammonton shall, after
being signed by the President of Council and countersigned by the Town Clerk/
Administrator, be presented to the Town Treasurer and be by him/her
countersigned and dated; and no warrant shall be payable or negotiable until it
shall have been so countersigned by the Town Treasurer.
§ 65-2. Indebtedness.
   If any warrant shall have been drawn in favor of any individual, firm or
corporation who may be in debt-to-the Town of Hammonton at the time said
warrant is presented to the Treasurer, then it shall be the duty of the
Treasurer to deduct the amount of such indebtedness from the face of the
warrant and to pay the balance if any remains, provided that there is a
sufficient amount of money in the Town Treasury for that purpose. But if there
should not be a sufficient amount of money available for that purpose, then the
amount so deducted shall be specified on the back of the warrant, and the
warrant countersigned and dated by the Treasurer. All warrants will be
negotiable and draw legal interest from the date of the Treasurer's signature.
Article II.
Payroll Account
[Adopted 9-13-1971 by Ord. No. 10-1971 as Ch. 46 of the 1971 Code]
§ 65-3. Approval of account; deposits.
   Immediately upon the adoption of this article and thereafter at the first
meeting of the Mayor and Common Council in January of each year, there shall be
approved an account to be designated as the Town of Hammonton Payroll Account,
and from time to time the Town Treasurer, upon receipt of a warrant for an
amount due such payroll account, shall deposit the same to the credit of the
payroll account, charging the appropriate budgetary accounts therewith.
§ 65-4. Approval of warrants.
   At each regular meeting of the Mayor and Common Council, the Town Clerk/
Administrator, acting as Payroll Officer, shall present to said Mayor and
Common Council for approval, warrants drawn to the order of the Town of
Hammonton Payroll Account as follows:
   A.   In advance for all officers and employees whose salaries are on an
annual basis, when such salaries are due and payable prior to the next regular
meeting of said Mayor and Common Council.
   B.   In advance for all officers and employees whose compensation is on an
hourly basis, when the compensation has been approved by some responsible
designated officials and the Chairperson of the appropriate committee and has
been certified to by the Town Clerk/Administrator.
   C.   The Town Clerk/Administrator shall thereafter draw checks on said
payroll account to the officers and employees entitled to payment there from.
   D.   At each regular meeting of the Mayor and Common Council, the Town
Clerk/Administrator shall submit for the approval or ratification, as the case
may be, the necessary payrolls for the amount due the several officers and
employees for compensation. The payroll shall be considered by the Mayor and
Common Council in due course and approved if found to be correct.
   E.   In case of error or adjustment in said payroll, the Town Clerk/
Administrator shall, and it shall be his/her duty to, see that such error or
adjustment is property corrected and appropriate record made thereof.
§ 65-5. Signing of warrants.
   All warrants drawn to the order of the payroll account shall be signed by
the Mayor and the Town Clerk/Administrator and countersigned by the Town
Treasurer, and all checks drawn against said payroll account shall be signed by
the Town Treasurer only.
§ 65-6. Certifications.
   It shall be the duty of all department heads and such other officials as may
be designated by the Mayor and Common Council, to certify to the Town Clerk/
Administrator as to the correctness of all compensation due to the officers and
employees under their supervision and control. Such certification shall be made
on an approved form and shall accompany the payroll of each department prior to
each regular meeting. The Town Clerk/Administrator shall, in turn, certify to
the correctness of the complete payroll as presented for approval or
ratification.
CHAPTER 72.
AIRPORT, MUNICIPAL
[HISTORY: Adopted by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton 9-
13-1971 by Ord. No. 10-1971 as Ch. 62 of the 1971 Code. Amendments noted where
applicable.]
   
§ 72-1.   Municipal airport established.
   
§ 72-2.   Standards of operation.
   
§ 72-3.   Town to contract for operations.
   
§ 72-4.   Capital improvements; costs as prepaid rent.
   
§ 72-5.   Proof of financial responsibility; insurance requirements.
   
§ 72-6.   Proof of successful managerial experience required.
   
§ 72-7.   Lease required between town and operators.
   
§ 72-8.   Definitions.
   
§ 72-9.   Standards of operation.
   
§ 72-10.   Administration.
   
§ 72-11.   Use of airport by individuals other than commercial operators.
   
§ 72-12.   Violations and penalties.
   
§ 72-13.   Fees; penalties for noncompliance.
GENERAL REFERENCES
   Airport facilities — See
Ch. 175, §
175-149.
§ 72-1. Municipal airport established.
   The Town of Hammonton by action of its Mayor and Common Council has
established upon town-owned lands a facility known as the Hammonton Municipal
Airport, and has constructed thereon a suitable runway, taxiway facilities,
landscaping and required slope areas, through the use of a federal grant and
local tax revenues.
§ 72-2. Standards of operation.
Editor's Note: Ordinance No. 18-1990, adopted 10-22-1990, adopted a code
establishing minimum standards for the control of airport and aeronautical
hazards, and standards for land use adjacent to airports is hereby adopted
pursuant to N.J.A.C. 16:62 et seq., as amended May 15, 1989. These standards
shall become part of the Master Plan of development of the Town of Hammonton. A
copy of said code is on file in the office of the Town Clerk/Administrator. The
Mayor and Common Council hereby determine that the interests of the town and
its citizens can be served by the existence of appropriate aeronautical
facilities for the operation of the Hammonton Municipal Airport, and that the
interests of the town and its citizens can best be protected and furthered by
the establishment of standards of operation at the Hammonton Municipal Airport
commensurate with the highest standards of the aviation industry.
§ 72-3. Town to contract for operations.
   The town shall, for the purposes aforementioned, enter into contracts with
responsible operators permitting upon suitable terms commercial aviation
operations at the Hammonton Municipal Airport, and the public thereof subject
to the condition that all proposed commercial aviation operations and
individual operators shall meet the following minimum standards.
§ 72-4. Capital improvements; costs as prepaid rent.
[Amended 10-22-1990 by Ord. No. 17-1990]
   As to all fixed-base operators as defined in §
72-8 of this chapter, such operators shall contract to construct permanent
improvements, directly related to aviation services, upon the Hammonton
Municipal Airport, which construction shall be of a cost, type, size and
construction which is first approved by the Mayor and Common Council of the
Town of Hammonton; the costs related to said construction and actually expended
may be applied as prepaid rent, however, in conformance with N.J.S.A. 40A:12-
14. The term of a lease and minimum rents shall be directly related to the
actual cost of the capital improvements by said fixed-base operator.
§ 72-5. Proof of financial responsibility; insurance requirements.
   A.   All commercial operators, as defined in §
72-8 of this chapter, shall provide proof of financial responsibility of the
operator and its sureties sufficient to show clearly and convincingly the
operator's competency to operate successfully.
   B.   Each such commercial operator shall provide at least the following
insurance in amounts specified and underwritten by insurance companies approved
by the Department of Banking and Insurance of the State of New Jersey, which
shall include as an additional insured the Town of Hammonton as lesser and
owner of the Hammonton Municipal Airport, and provide to lesser certificates of
insurance in the following amounts and type which shall first be approved by
the Town Insurance Risk Manager:
      (1)   Airport premises, products and completed operations liability:
         (a)   Bodily injury and property damage: $1,000,000 each occurrence,
$2,000,000 aggregate.
         (b)   Fire damage liability: based upon individual exposure as
determined by the Town Insurance Risk Manager.
         (c)   Medical expense coverage: $5,000 each person.
      (2)   One million dollars storage tank liability each occurrence with an
annual aggregate of $1,000,000 listing the Town of Hammonton as additional
insured for cleanup and removal activities arising from operating a fuel
facility at the Hammonton Municipal Airport.
      (3)   Hangar keeper's legal liability: an amount equal to the single
highest valued aircraft in the insurer's care, custody and control, with an
aggregate limit equal to twice the foregoing limit.
      (4)   Worker's compensation. Worker's compensation insurance shall be
provided in accordance with the Worker's Compensation Laws of the State of New
Jersey.
      (5)   Aircraft liability:
         (a)   Bodily injury and property damage: $1,000,000 CSL.
         (b)   Bodily injury liability: $100,000 each passenger.
   C.   Said operator shall include as an additional insured the Town of
Hammonton as lesser and owner of the Hammonton Municipal Airport, and provide
to the lesser certificates of insurance in the following amounts and type which
shall first be approved by the town's insurance broker of record:
      (1)   Products liability:
         (a)   $500,000 each accident.
         (b)   $1,000,000 aggregate.
      (2)   Aircraft liability (owned and non-owned):
         (a)   Bodily injury (excluding passengers):
            [1]   $500,000 each person.
            [2]   $1,000,000 each occurrence.
         (b)   Property damage, passenger: $100,000 each accident.
         (c)   Bodily injury liability: $100,000 each passenger seat.
      (3)   Hangar keeper's legal liability: An amount equal to the single
highest valued aircraft in the insured's care, custody and control, with an
aggregate limit equal to twice the foregoing limit.
      (4)   Worker's compensation: Worker's compensation insurance shall be
provided in accordance with the Workers' Compensation Laws of the State of New
Jersey.
   D.   The town reserves the right to require the operator to produce proof of
assets or sufficient sureties to cover the entire rental for the term of the
lease and to deny any request for a lease where such proof is not furnished.
§ 72-6. Proof of successful managerial experience required.
   A.   All commercial operators, as defined in §
72-8 of this chapter, shall bring forward proof of successful managerial
experience in general aviation enterprises of the persons who shall be the
actual operating managerial personnel involved in and responsible for the
operations involved in the operation of Hammonton Municipal Airport, which
managerial personnel shall have a minimum of five years' commercial aviation
experience in a managerial capacity.
   B.   All such commercial operators shall bring forward proof of compliance
with all state and federal licensing laws pertinent to the proposed operation.
§ 72-7. Lease required between town and operators.
[Amended 10-22-1990 by Ord. No. 17-1990]
   No person shall engage for profit in the operations, services or functions
enumerated in these standards unless and until such person shall be a bona fide
lessee of the town or sub lessee of a bona fide lessee operating under a lease
from the town permitting such sublease. All such leases binding any fixed-base
operator, as defined in §
72-8 of this chapter, shall be in conformance with N.J.S.A. 40A:12-14.
§ 72-8. Definitions.
   As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
indicated:
   COMMERCIAL OPERATOR AND COMMERCIAL OPERATION
   Any individual operator or operation who or which is entitled to or obliged
to engage in any commercial aeronautical activity upon the Hammonton Municipal
Airport which is defined and set forth in §
72-9 of this chapter or any subsection thereof. This definition shall include
within its purview "fixed-base operator" as defined in §
72-8 as well as other commercial operators as herein defined.
   FIXED-BASE OPERATOR
   Any operator who is entitled to or obliged to engage in at least those
activities defined in §
72-9B and F of this chapter, plus either of the activities defined in §
72-9C or D of this chapter. Any operator who falls within this definition of a
"fixed-base operator" shall be required to meet all standards set forth in §
72-9J of this chapter.
§ 72-9. Standards of operation.
   The following provisions shall apply to all commercial operations, as
defined in §
72-8 of this chapter, conducting any of the specific operations hereinafter set
forth, which specific operations shall be managed and authorized only in the
following manner:
   A.   Aircraft sales. Any lessee desiring to engage in the sale of new or
used aircraft must provide as a minimum the following:
      (1)   Buildings. Lease an existing facility or construct a building prior
to commencing operations with properly lighted and heated space for office and
public lounge and public use telephone. Said building shall contain indoor rest
room facilities and drinking fountains. Any building used for the within
activity shall be of a cost, type, size and construction which is first
approved by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton; the costs
related to said construction and actually expended may be applied as prepaid
rent, however, in conformance with N.J.S.A. 40A:12-14. The term of a lease and
minimum rent shall be directly related to the actual cost of the capital
improvement.
[Amended 10-22-1990 by Ord. No. 17-1990]
      (2)   Personnel. One person having a current commercial pilot certificate
with ratings appropriate for the types of aircraft to be demonstrated, and at
least one person having an instructor's rating authorizing instructions in each
aircraft sold or displayed. Provide for office to be attended during the
operating hours.
      (3)   Aircraft. A dealer of new aircraft shall have available or on call
one current model demonstrator for each of at least two models of each
franchise line sold.
      (4)   Services. A dealer shall provide an adequate supply to or direct
access to a sufficient supply of parts for each type of new aircraft sold. A
dealer shall provide for the repair and servicing of aircraft during its
warranty period by the dealers own facilities or through written agreement with
a repair shop specializing in the make of aircraft sold.
      (5)   Hours of operation. Minimum operating hours shall be from 8:00 a.m.
to 5:00 p.m. a minimum of five days a week.
   B.   Airframe and/or power plant repair. Any lessee desiring to engage in
airframe and/or power plant repair services must provide as a minimum the
following:
      (1)   Buildings. Lease an existing facility or construct a building prior
to commencing operations with properly lighted and heated space for office and
public lounge and public use telephone. Said building shall contain indoor rest
room facilities and drinking fountains and shall meet all federal, state,
county and municipal code requirements. Any building used for the within
activity shall be a cost, type, size and construction which is first approved
by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton; the costs related to
said construction and actually expended may be applied as prepaid rent,
however, in conformance with N.J.S.A. 40A:12-14. The term of a lease and
minimum rent shall be directly related to the actual cost of the capital
improvement.
[Amended 10-22-1990 by Ord. No. 17-1990]
      (2)   Personnel. Have on field or on call factory trained personnel
capable of servicing, maintaining and repairing all aircraft, piston and
turbine, under 12,500 pounds with at least one aircraft inspector available on
call.
      (3)   Hours of operation. The normal operating hours shall be a minimum
of from 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. five days a week with service available on
weekends on an on-call emergency basis.
      (4)   Equipment. Provide sufficient equipment, supplies and availability
of parts to perform maintenance in accordance with manufacturers'
recommendations or equivalent.
   C.   Aircraft rental. Any lessee desiring to engage in the rental of
aircraft to the public must provide as a minimum the following:
      (1)   Buildings. Lease an existing facility or construct a building prior
to commencing operations with properly lighted and heated space for office and
public lounge and public use telephone. Said building shall contain indoor rest
room facilities and drinking fountains and shall meet all federal, state,
county and municipal code requirements. Any building used for the within
activity shall be of a cost, type, size and construction which is first
approved by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton; the costs
related to said construction and actually expended may be applied as prepaid
rent, however, in conformance with N.J.S.A. 40A:12-14. The term of a lease and
minimum rent shall be directly related to the actual cost of the capital
improvement.
[Amended 10-22-1990 by Ord. No. 17-1990]
      (2)   Personnel. One person having a current commercial pilot's
certificate with appropriate ratings.
      (3)   Aircraft. Three airworthy aircraft owned or leased in writing to
the lessee.
      (4)   Hours of operation. Minimum operating hours of from 8:00 a.m. to 5:
00 p.m. seven days a week.
   D.   Flight training. Any lessee desiring to engage in pilot flight
instruction shall provide as a minimum the following:
      (1)   Buildings. Lease an existing facility or construct a building prior
to commencing operations with properly lighted and heated spaces sufficient for
office, classroom, pilot briefing and public lounge and public use telephone.
Said building shall contain indoor rest room facilities and drinking fountains
and shall meet all federal, state, county and municipal code requirements. Any
building used for the within activity shall be of a cost, type, size and
construction which is first approved by the Mayor and Common Council of the
Town of Hammonton; the costs related to said construction and actually expended
may be applied as prepaid rent, however, in conformance with N.J.S.A. 40A:12-
14. The term of a lease and minimum rent shall be directly related to the
actual cost of the capital improvement.
[Amended 10-22-1990 by Ord. No. 17-1990]
      (2)   Personnel. One person properly certificated by FAA as flight
instructor to cover the type of training offered.
      (3)   Aircraft. The lessee shall own or have leased to him/her in writing
three properly certificated aircraft equipped for flight instruction.
      (4)   Hours of operation. The minimum hours of operation shall be eight
hours a day, seven days a week from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.
   E.   Air taxi service. Lessees desiring to engage in air taxi service must
hold an FAA air taxi-commercial operator's certificate and all required CAB
certifications appropriate for the type and weight of all aircraft to be so
used, with authorization for VFR and IFR, day and night, and single- and multi-
engine operations, and shall provide the additional facilities and services as
follows:
      (1)   Buildings. Lease an existing facility or construct a building prior
to commencing operations with properly lighted and heated spaces sufficient for
office and public lounge and public use telephone. Said building shall contain
indoor rest room facilities and drinking fountains and shall met all federal,
state, county and municipal code requirements. Any building used for the within
activity shall be of a cost, type, size and construction which is first
approved by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton; the costs
related to said construction and actually expended may be applied as prepaid
rent, however, in conformance with N.J.S.A. 40A:12-14. The term of a lease and
minimum rent shall be directly related to the actual cost of the capital
improvement.
[Amended 10-22-1990 by Ord. No. 17-1990]
      (2)   Personnel. One FAA certified commercial pilot who is appropriately
rated to conduct air taxi service offered, VFR, IFR, single- and multi-engine,
day and night.
      (3)   Aircraft. Two four-place single-engine aircraft, at least one of
which is IFR equipped, and at least one IFR equipped multi-engine aircraft. All
such aircraft shall be owned or leased by agreement in writing and meet all the
relevant requirements of Part 135 of the FAA Regulations.
      (4)   Hours of operation. The minimum hours of operation shall be from 8:
00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. six days a week, but such operator shall provide on-call
service during nonoperating hours.
   F.   Aircraft fuels and oil dispensing and/or aircraft storage service:
Lessees desiring to dispense aviation fuels and oil and/or provide other
related services, such as tie down and storage of aircraft, shall provide as a
minimum the following services and facilities:
      (1)   Buildings. Lease an existing facility or construct a building prior
to commencing operations capable of accommodating a minimum of six single-
engine aircraft and with properly lighted and heated spaces sufficient for
office and public lounge and public use telephone. Said building shall contain
indoor rest room facilities and drinking fountains and shall meet all federal,
state, county and municipal code requirements. Any building used for the within
activity shall be a cost, type, size and construction which is first approved
by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton; the costs related to
said construction and actually expended may be applied as prepaid rent,
however, in conformance with N.J.S.A. 40A:12-14. The term of a lease and
minimum rent shall be directly related to the actual cost of the capital
improvement.
[Amended 10-22-1990 by Ord. No. 17-1990]
      (2)   Personnel. Provide sufficient staff to provide constantly attended
daylight service from 8:00 a.m. until dusk and emergency twenty-four-hour
service on demand where such can be reasonably provided.
      (3)   Aircraft service equipment. Provide emergency starting equipment,
adequate fire extinguishers.
      (4)   Services. Fuel, park, tie down and store aircraft, wash and wax
aircraft, inflate tires, change aircraft engine oil, provide minor repairs and
services not requiring mechanic's certificate ratings.
      (5)   Fueling facilities. Provide two metered fixed filter-equipped
dispensers for dispensing two grades (80-87 and 100-115 octane) of gasoline
from storage tanks having a minimum capacity of 10,000 gallons each. Exhibit
evidence of agreement with fuel suppliers to supply jet A-1 fuel when required.
Provide separate dispensing pumps and meters for each grade of fuel as
required.
      (6)   Hours of operation. Fueling service shall be provided from a
minimum of 8:00 a.m. until dusk seven days a week.
   G.   Radio, instrument or propeller repair service. Lessees desiring to
provide a radio, instrument or propeller repair service must hold a FAA repair
station certificate and ratings for same and provide as a minimum the
following:
      (1)   Buildings. Lease an existing facility or construct a building prior
to commencing operations with properly lighted and heated spaces sufficient for
office and public lounge and public use telephone. Said building shall contain
indoor rest room facilities, drinking fountains and hangar space as may be
required by the FAA and shall meet all federal, state, county and municipal
code requirements. Any building used for the within activity shall be of a
cost, type, size and construction which is first approved by the Mayor and
Common Council of the Town of Hammonton; the costs related to said construction
and actually expended may be applied as prepaid rent, however, in conformance
with N.J.S.A. 40A:12-14. The term of a lease and minimum rent shall be directly
related to the actual cost of the capital improvement.
[Amended 10-22-1990 by Ord. No. 17-1990]
      (2)   Personnel. One FAA certified repair person qualified in accordance
with the terms of the repair station certificate.
      (3)   Hours of operation. The minimum hours of operation shall be from 8:
00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., five days a week.
   H.   Aerial applicators. Lessees desiring to engage in aerial application
operations must hold an agricultural aircraft certificate issued by the FAA
under Part 137; comply with requirements of the state and political
subdivisions thereof; and provide as a minimum the following:
      (1)   Buildings. Lease an existing facility or construct a building prior
to commencing operations with space for office or storage, hangar space as may
be required by FAA and shall meet all federal, state, county and municipal code
requirements relating to the activity shall be of a cost, type, size and
construction which is first approved by the Mayor and Common Council of the
Town of Hammonton; the costs related to said construction and actually expended
may be applied as prepaid rent, however, in conformance with N.J.S.A. 40A:12-
14. The term of a lease and minimum rent shall be directly related to the
actual cost of the capital improvement.
[Amended 10-22-1990 by Ord. No. 17-1990]
      (2)   Personnel. One person holding current FAA commercial certificate
properly rated for the aircraft to be used and meeting the requirements of Part
137 of the FAA regulations and applicable regulations of the state.
      (3)   Aircraft. One aircraft which will be airworthy, meeting all the
requirements of Part 137 of FAA regulations and applicable regulations of the
state. This aircraft shall be owned or leased by agreement in writing and based
on the lessee's leasehold.
      (4)   Facilities. A segregated chemical storage area protected from
public access, and shall be erected and maintained in such a manner as to
protect against the escape of noxious fumes or substances.
      (5)   Hours of operation. Personnel must be available on call 24 hours
during the normal aerial application season.
   I.   Specialized commercial flight services. Lessees desiring to engage in
the specialized commercial air activities including but not limited to banner
towing and aerial advertising, aerial photography or survey, fire fighting or
fire patrol, power-line or pipeline patrol, and any other operations
specifically excluded from Part 135 of the Federal Aviation Regulations, shall
provide the following:
      (1)   Buildings. Lease an existing facility or construct a building prior
to commencing operations with properly lighted and heated spaces sufficient for
office and public lounge and public use telephone. Said building shall contain
indoor rest room facilities and drinking fountains and shall meet all federal,
state, county and municipal code requirements. Any building used for the within
activity shall be of a cost, type, size and construction which is first
approved by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton; the costs
related to said construction and actually expended may be applied as prepaid
rent, however, in conformance with N.J.S.A. 40A:12-14. The term of a lease and
minimum rent shall be directly related to the actual cost of the capital
improvement.
[Amended 10-22-1990 by Ord. No. 17-1990]
      (2)   Personnel. One person having a current commercial pilot's
certificate with appropriate ratings for the aircraft to be flown.
      (3)   Aircraft. One properly certificated aircraft owned or leased in
writing to the lessee.
      (4)   Hours of operation. The minimum operating hours will be from 8:00
a.m. to 5:00 p.m., five days a week.
   J.   Fixed-base operator. Lessees desiring to engage in the activities of a
fixed-base operator, as hereinabove defined, must provide as a minimum the
following:
      (1)   Buildings. Lease an existing facility or construct a building prior
to commencing operations with properly lighted and heated spaces sufficient for
office, public lounge and public use telephone. Said building shall contain
indoor rest room facilities, drinking fountains and required facilities as
provided in §§
72-8 and 72-9 of this chapter and shall meet all federal, state, county and
municipal code requirements. Any building used for the within activity shall be
of a cost, type, size and construction which is first approved by the Mayor and
Common Council of the Town of Hammonton; the costs related to said construction
and actually expended may be applied as prepaid rent, however, in conformance
with N.J.S.A. 40A:12-14. The term of a lease and minimum rent shall be directly
related to the actual cost of the capital improvement.
[Amended 10-22-1990 by Ord. No. 17-1990]
      (2)   Personnel. Multiple responsibilities may be assigned to personnel
to meet personnel requirements for all activities.
      (3)   Aircraft. Requirements for aircraft for the specific activities to
be engaged in must be provided; however, multiple uses can be made of all
aircraft, except aerial applicator aircraft, to meet these requirements. In
order to meet these requirements, however, a minimum of two aircraft must be
owned or under the direct control of the lessee and based on the lessee's
leasehold.
      (4)   Equipment. All equipment, specifically required for each activity,
must be provided. All fixed-base operators as herein defined shall provide
fueling facilities equal to, or greater than, those set forth in § 72-9F(5),
and at a cost of not less than $15,000, in order to qualify as a fixed-base
operator, which fueling facilities shall be an additional requirement over and
above the buildings requirement and all other financial requirements set forth
above.
      (5)   Services. All services specifically required for each activity must
be provided during the hours of operations. Fixed-base operators may provide
all activities set forth within any of the categories of the standards for
airport operations contained within §
72-9 of this chapter without meeting any additional requirements as to prepaid
rent and initial investment over and above those required of a fixed-base
operator within §
72-9J of this chapter.
      (6)   Hours of operation. The lessee will adhere to the operating
schedule as required for each activity.
   K.   Multiple service operations of nonfixed operators.
[Amended 10-22-1990 by Ord. No. 17-1990]
      (1)   Any operator, as defined in §
72-8 of this chapter, who does not qualify as a fixed-base operator under §
72-8 may combine more than one of the activities set forth in this section
should he/she first secure a lease from the Town of Hammonton authorizing him/
her to engage in such combined activities, and provided that said commercial
operator meets the individual standards set for each activity by this chapter
for all operations to be conducted by him/her. The requirements as to the
providing of necessary buildings shall be cumulative, and any commercial
operator, as defined in §
72-8 of this chapter, who wishes to engage in more than one of the defined
activities shall supply buildings of a type, size and quality as are approved
by the Mayor and Common Council and at a cost equal to the sum total of each
individual building required for each separate operation for which said
operator acquires a lease up to the initial investment in buildings required of
a fixed-base operator, as defined in §
72-8. Should the sum total of initial investments set forth in the various
subsections of §
72-9 hereof required of a commercial operator who does not qualify as a fixed-
base operator exceed those required of a fixed-base operator, said commercial
operator shall be required to invest an initial amount equal to that amount
required of fixed-base operators.
      (2)   A commercial operator under §
72-8 who does not qualify as a fixed-base operator may combine more than one
service, as provided by the various subsections of §
72-9, in one or more buildings which are approved as to size, quality and type
of construction by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton, and
provided that the building or buildings equal in cost either the cumulative
total of all financial obligation imposed for each operation engaged in under
this section or those required of a fixed-base operator, whichever is the
lesser. Should any commercial operator other than a fixed-base operator, as
defined within §
72-8 of this chapter, lease an existing facility, said operator shall pay to
the Town of Hammonton a prepaid rental equal to the sum total of the minimum
cost requirements for each separate operation which said commercial operator
intends to engage in where said commercial operator is required to construct
buildings for each said activity. Should any commercial operator, as defined in
§
72-8 of this chapter, sublease any portion of the premises leased by him/her to
other commercial operators conducting other activities set forth within §
72-9, and the sum total of all such activities of the original lessee and the
sub lessee when joined together meet the definition of a fixed-base operator,
as contained within §
72-8, said combined services by the lessee and his/her sub lessee(s) shall be
considered the services of a fixed-base operator, and the combined operators
rendering such services shall be held to all standards set forth in §
72-9J of this chapter for fixed-base operators. Nothing in this section shall
prevent the Town of Hammonton from raising the minimum standards imposed by
this chapter should economic factors and the status and characteristics of the
Hammonton Municipal Airport be such as justifies the raising of the rental and/
or of other standards imposed by this chapter, provided that such new standards
shall first be approved by the Federal Aviation Administration before becoming
effective.
   L.   General requirements.
      (1)   Building space requirements may be met by one building, attached
buildings or separate buildings constructed on leased premises.
      (2)   All lessee personnel required to hold appropriate FAA certificates
and ratings and shall maintain such certificates and ratings.
      (3)   All lessees offering any of the services or combinations thereof
shall do so under written lease or agreement with the town.
   M.   Flying clubs. The following requirements pertain to all flying clubs
desiring to base their aircraft on the airport and be exempt from the minimum
standards:
      (1)   Organizations. Each club must be a nonprofit corporation or
partnership. Each member must be a bona fide owner of the aircraft or a
stockholder in the corporation. The club may not derive greater revenue from
the use of its aircraft than the amount necessary for the actual use of
operation, maintenance and replacement of its aircraft. The club will file and
keep current with the town a complete list of the club's membership and
investment share held by each member.
      (2)   Aircraft. The club's aircraft will not be used by other than bona
fide members for rental and by no one for commercial operations. Student
instruction can be given in club aircraft to club members, provided that such
instruction is given by a lessee based on the airport who provides flight
training or by an instructor who shall not receive remuneration in any manner
for such service.
      (3)   Violations. In the event that the club fails to comply with these
conditions, the town will notify the club in writing of such violations. If the
club fails to correct the violations within 15 days, the town may take any
action provided in §
72-12 of this chapter.
§ 72-10. Administration.
[Amended 5-26-1980 by Ord. No. 15-1980]
   The Mayor and Common Council shall appoint on January 1 of each year an
individual for a one-year term to serve as Airport Administrator. Said position
shall no longer be nonsalaried and may be any present town official or any
other resident of the Town of Hammonton. Said Airport Administrator shall have
the responsibility of:
   A.   Determining whether all leases of the Municipal Airport are meeting
their obligations to the town, to the Federal Aviation Administration and to
the public;
   B.   Keeping informed of and complying with all state and federal laws and
regulations dealing with airport operations;
   C.   Serving as enforcement officer of this chapter and prosecuting
violations thereof; and
   D.   Making recommendations to the Mayor and Council of changes and
additions to the standards imposed by this chapter and the respective town
leases.
§ 72-11. Use of airport by individuals other than commercial operators.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be considered as granting an exclusive right
of use of Hammonton's airport facility which at all times shall be operated as
open for public use. However, in light of the need for such public use being
regulated so as to safeguard the airport facility and those legitimately using
said facility and to protect the public welfare of the citizens and taxpayers
of the town, the following standards are imposed on individual use:
   A.   No aircraft owner shall park and tie down his/her aircraft in any
unauthorized area of the airport. Authorized parking areas shall be all those
areas within the area shown on the Airport Layout Plan filed with and approved
by the Federal Aviation Administration, including but not limited to those
areas within the responsibility and control of authorized commercial operators,
as defined in §
72-8 of this chapter, as are designated as parking areas by the Airport
Administrator. Areas for authorized public parking shall also be designated by
the Airport Administrator within the town's right-of-way along Drivers Street
in such portions of such right-of-way as are designated as available for public
parking by the Airport Administrator.
   B.   No individual shall tie down on the airport unless said individual
shall pay the prevailing rate for tie-downs then in effect at said airport.
   C.   No individual shall make any major repairs to an airplane at the
Hammonton Municipal Airport unless within a permanent structure properly
equipped to perform such repair services.
   D.   No person shall store or attempt to establish fuel facilities without a
lease from the town and without compliance with the provisions of this chapter
dealing with providing fueling services.
   E.   No person shall drive or park any automobile or other motor vehicle,
including trailers, other than an authorized service vehicle, on any portion of
the airport other than roadways and areas designated and marked as available
for such use.
   F.   No individual shall walk upon or traverse any area marked as
"restricted to authorized personnel only."
   G.   No person shall operate, store or maintain any airplane or otherwise
use the Hammonton Airport in an unsafe, hazardous or negligent manner not in
conformity with general aviation standards and all regulations of the town
relating to use of said airport.
§ 72-12. Violations and penalties.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject, upon
conviction by the Hammonton Municipal Court, to:
   A.   Expulsion from said airport and the use of any of its facilities; and
   B.   One or more of the following: a fine of not more than $1,000,
imprisonment for a period not to exceed 90 days or a period of community
service not to exceed 90 days.
§ 72-13. Fees; penalties for noncompliance.
[Added 10-22-2001 by Ord. No. 32-2001]
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish certain fees to be
collected at the Hammonton Municipal Airport by tenants and fixed base
operators, which, when turned over to the Town, shall be utilized for airport
purposes.
   B.   Establishment of fees. Every fixed based operator or tenant at the
Hammonton Municipal Airport shall collect and turn over to the Town of
Hammonton on a monthly basis the following fees if such services are rendered
by the fixed base operator or tenant to a third party:
      (1)   Fuel flow fee: $0.03 per gallon.
      (2)   Hangared aircraft (inside storage): $10 per month.
      (3)   Outside tie down: $5 per month.
   C.   Remittance of fees collected. Every fixed based operator or tenant who
shall collect fees as set forth herein shall, within 15 days of the month
following the month in which the fees are collected, turn over to the Treasurer
of the Town of Hammonton a fee collection report, together with the actual
amount collected. The fee report shall include the number of gallons of fuel
dispensed during the prior month, together with the number of hangared aircraft
and outside tie downs. Additionally, every fixed base operator and tenant shall
provide to the Town of Hammonton the name, address and tail number for each and
every aircraft hangared and tied down within their leased space.
   D.   Exemption from fees. Every fixed base operator or tenant is exempt from
the within fees for aircraft owned by the fixed base operator or tenant.
   E.   Penalty for noncompliance. Any fixed base operator or tenant at the
Hammonton Municipal Airport who fails to remit a monthly report, together with
the fees collected, shall be considered in violation of this section and shall,
upon conviction, be subject one or more of the following:
      (1)   A fine of not more than $1,000.
      (2)   Imprisonment for a period not to exceed 90 days; or a period of
community service not to exceed 90 days in the discretion of the Judge of the
Municipal Court.
      (3)   Each failure to comply with any such provision as contained herein
shall constitute a separate violation.
CHAPTER 74.
ALARM SYSTEMS
[HISTORY: Adopted by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton as
indicated in article histories. Amendments noted where applicable.]
ARTICLE I.
False Alarms
   
§ 74-1.   Purpose.
   
§ 74-2.   Designation of false alarm.
   
§ 74-3.   Constitution of violation.
   
§ 74-3A.   Exemptions for churches, schools and non-profit organizations.
   
§ 74-4.   Violations and penalties.
   
§ 74-5.   Terms defined.
   
§ 74-6.   Notification requirements.
GENERAL REFERENCES
   Police Department — See
Ch. 51.
   Fire prevention — See
Ch. 144.
Article I.
False Alarms
[Adopted 5-21-2001 by Ord. No. 24-2001]
§ 74-1. Purpose.
   An ever increasing number of homeowners and business owners are installing
alarm systems in an effort to prevent crime. The installation of these systems
should certainly be encouraged, because they tend to make the community safe. A
result, however, of having so many properties with alarm systems is that the
local Police Department is called upon to respond to false alarms. It is the
purpose of this article to curtail the number of false alarms received by the
Police Department.
§ 74-2. Designation of false alarm.
   If the Police Department receives a call which requires an officer to be
dispatched to a residence or dispatched to a business or dispatched to any
location in the Town of Hammonton and, upon arrival, it can be determined that
no property or person was in threat of harm or injury and the call or alarm to
the Police Department was made by mistake, neglect or with the purpose to annoy
and there is no justifiable reason to initiate the dispatch, the alarm shall be
considered false.
§ 74-3. Constitution of violation.
   An individual shall be considered to have violated this article if he or she
initiated the false alarm or negligently allowed the false alarm to be made. It
shall be presumed that the owner of any property that has an alarm system is
the person who initiates or allows the alarm to be made. The presumption may be
rebutted.
§ 74-3A. Exemptions for churches, schools and non-profit organizations.
[Added 3-20-2017 by Ord. No. 005-2017]
   Should a false alarm occur at the premise of a church, school (public or
private) or any non- profit organization, a false alarm warning and/or fine
shall not be issued. If a false alarm warning and/or fine is issued in error,
it may be dismissed by the Chief of Police at his discretion.
§ 74-4. Violations and penalties.
[Amended 4-28-2008 by Ord. No. 12-2008; 12-21-2009 by Ord. No. 30-2009]
   Anyone who is convicted of violating this article in the Hammonton Municipal
Court is subject to the following penalties:
   A.   First offense: a warning with no fine or Court appearance required.
   B.   Second and subsequent offenses: a fine of $50 and no Court appearance
required.
§ 74-5. Terms defined.
[Amended 4-28-2008 by Ord. No. 12-2008; 11-24-2008 by Ord. No. 36-2008; 12-21-
2009 by Ord. No. 30-2009]
   A "second offense, or subsequent offense" shall be defined as any false
alarm which occurs within a twelve-month period from January 1 through December
31 annually.
§ 74-6. Notification requirements.
   A.   All security providers who maintain a panel within the Hammonton Police
Department for security systems for homeowners and businesses are required to
notify all such users annually as to the false alarm ordinance by certified
mail, return receipt requested, and provide a copy of said letter and proof of
service to the office of the Town Clerk/Administrator and Chief of Police.
   B.   Any failure on the part of a provider to provide notice as contained
within this section shall not be considered a defense to the violation of this
article.
   C.   Any provider who fails to comply with the notification requirements
contained herein shall forfeit his/her right to maintain a direct connection
panel within the Hammonton Police Department.
CHAPTER 75.
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
[HISTORY: Adopted by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton 9-
13-1971 by Ord. No. 10-1971 as Ch. 63 of the 1971 Code. Amendments noted where
applicable.]
   
§ 75-1.   License required.
   
§ 75-2.   Issuing authority.
   
§ 75-3.   Compliance with state law required; investigation and approval by
town officials.
   
§ 75-4.   Classes of licenses; fees.
   
§ 75-5.   Number of licenses restricted.
   
§ 75-6.   Inurement of license in case of death.
   
§ 75-7.   Hotels and restaurants.
   
§ 75-8.   Hours of sale and consumption.
   
§ 75-9.   Official time.
   
§ 75-10.   Sale to minors.
   
§ 75-11.   Violations and penalties.
GENERAL REFERENCES
   Alcoholic beverages in parks — See
Ch. 200, § 200-4B(1).
   Alcoholic beverages in public places — See
Ch. 202, §
202-3.
§ 75-1. License required.
   It shall not be lawful for any person or persons to operate, use or maintain
any store, dwelling or other building or premises of any kind in the Town of
Hammonton for the sale, offering for sale, exposure for sale or dispensing of
any beverage authorized by N.J.S.A. 33:1-1 et seq., and amendments and
supplements thereto, without a license pursuant to said act.
§ 75-2. Issuing authority.
   The Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton are hereby constituted
as a proper issuing authority to administer the issuance of all licenses as
herein provided, after investigation by proper authority.
§ 75-3. Compliance with state law required; investigation and approval by town
officials.
   All licenses issued and granted shall be issued in conformity with and with
the intention of complying with the terms and provisions of N.J.S.A. 33:1-1 et
seq. and the amendments and supplements thereto, and shall only be issued and
granted after due investigation and approval by the proper authorized town
officials.
§ 75-4. Classes of licenses; fees.
   A.   The classes of licenses to be issued and the license fees shall be as
follows:
[Amended 2-13-2006 by Ord. No. 2-2006; 10-26-2009 by Ord. No. 21-2009]
      (1)   Plenary retail consumption license: $576.
      (2)   Plenary retail distribution license: $576.
      (3)   Club license: $144.
      (4)   Transfer fee person to person: $57.60.
      (5)   Transfer fee place to place: $57.60.
   B.   All license fees required hereunder shall be paid in cash or by
certified check, and the full amount thereof must accompany each application
for license when presented.
   C.   All licenses shall be issued for one year from July 1.
§ 75-5. Number of licenses restricted.
   Restrictions on the number of licenses to be issued shall be as follows:
   A.   Plenary retail consumption licenses shall be limited in number to 23;
provided, however, that after the limit of 23 has been reached, no plenary
retail consumption licenses shall be issued until, by relinquishment,
revocation or otherwise, the number of plenary retail consumption licenses
shall be reduced below the number of 23, and then new plenary retail
consumption licenses may only be issued until the limitation of 23 is reached.
   B.   Plenary retail distribution licenses shall be limited in number to
three; provided, however, that after the limit of three has been reached, no
plenary retail distribution licenses shall be issued until, by relinquishment,
revocation or otherwise, the number of plenary retail distribution licenses
shall be reduced below the number of three, and then new plenary retail
distribution licenses may only be issued until the limitation of three is
reached.
   C.   Limited retail distribution licenses shall be limited in number to two;
provided, however, that after the limit of two has been reached, no limited
retail distribution licenses shall be issued until, by relinquishment,
revocation or otherwise, the number of limited retail distribution licenses
shall be reduced below the number of two, and then new limited retail
distribution licenses may only be issued until the limitation of two is
reached.
   D.   Club licenses shall be limited in number to six; provided, however,
that after the limit of six has been reached, no club licenses shall be issued
until, by relinquishment, revocation or otherwise, the number of club licenses
shall be reduced below the number of six, and then new licenses may only be
issued until the limitation of six is reached.
§ 75-6. Inurement of license in case of death.
   In case of death of the licensee, the license may inure to the benefit of
the executor or administrator of such deceased licensee unless such executor or
administrator is individually disqualified from holding such a license or is
not a proper person to be licensed.
§ 75-7. Hotels and restaurants.
   Such licenses as are granted by the governing body shall be granted to
hotels and to restaurants having a seating capacity of 25 persons or more,
restaurants to be equipped to serve hot meals and lunches.
§ 75-8. Hours of sale and consumption.
[Amended 2-11-1974 by Ord. No. 4-1974; 5-9-1977 by Ord. No. 5-1977; 3-26-1990
by Ord. No. 9-1990; 10-25-2021 by Ord. 016- 2021]
   A.   No licensee shall sell, serve or deliver any alcoholic beverages on any
weekday or weekend between the hours of 2:30 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.
   B.   No licensee shall permit anyone to consume an alcoholic beverage within
the premises or on the premises after 3:00 a.m. on any day other than a New
Year's Day which falls on a Sunday, at which time this limitation of
consumption in or on a premises shall be at 6:00 a.m.
§ 75-9. Official time.
[Amended 7-23-2004 by Ord. No. 26-2001]
   The hours mentioned in §
75-8, as herein amended, shall be in accordance with Eastern standard time or
daylight saving time, whichever is officially in effect in the Town of
Hammonton.
§ 75-10. Sale to minors.
[Amended 7-23-2004 by Ord. No. 26-2001]
   No licensee shall sell, serve, deliver, allow, permit or suffer the service
or delivery of alcoholic beverages directly or indirectly to any person under
the legal age for purchasing alcoholic beverages or to an intoxicated person,
or allow, permit or suffer the consumption of alcoholic beverages by any such
person upon the licensed premises.
§ 75-11. Violations and penalties.
   Any person or persons, firm or corporation and officers thereof who shall
violate any provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof by a
Judge, be subject to one or more of the following: a fine of not more than
$1,000, imprisonment for a period not to exceed 90 days or a period of
community service not to exceed 90 days or/and in addition thereto may
forthwith have his, her or its license revoked by the Common Council of the
Town of Hammonton for the violation of any section of this chapter.
CHAPTER 79.
AMUSEMENTS
[HISTORY: Adopted by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton as
indicated in article histories. Amendments noted where applicable.]
ARTICLE I.
Automatic Amusement Games
   
§ 79-1.   License required; revocation for violation.
   
§ 79-2.   Definitions.
   
§ 79-3.   Issuance of license; fee; term.
   
§ 79-4.   Application for license.
   
§ 79-5.   Application filing date.
   
§ 79-6.   Affixing licenses to machines prior to use.
   
§ 79-7.   License transfers; fee.
   
§ 79-8.   License to remain on premises.
   
§ 79-9.   [Reserved.]
   
§ 79-10.   Use of devices for gambling deemed violation.
   
§ 79-11.   [Reserved.]
   
§ 79-12.   Purpose.
   
§ 79-13.   Violations and penalties.
ARTICLE II.
Licensing of Carnival Grounds Games
   
§ 79-14.   Restrictions on licenses.
   
§ 79-15.   License required.
   
§ 79-16.   Filing of application.
   
§ 79-17.   Investigation of applicant.
   
§ 79-18.   Time limit on license; contents; display.
   
§ 79-19.   Hearing upon refusal; amendment of existing licenses.
   
§ 79-20.   Control and supervision of games.
   
§ 79-21.   Forfeiture of license.
   
§ 79-22.   Separate licenses per game and location; fee.
   
§ 79-23.   Dates of operation; minors.
   
§ 79-24.   Permissible games.
   
§ 79-25.   Time limit for filing application.
   
§ 79-26.   Certificate of insurance.
   
§ 79-27.   Violations and penalties.
GENERAL REFERENCES
   Minors in places of amusement — See
Ch. 119.
Article I.
Automatic Amusement Games
[Adopted 9-13-1971 by Ord. No. 10-1971 as Art. I of Ch. 64 of the 1971 Code]
§ 79-1. License required; revocation for violation.
[Amended 6-28-1982 by Ord. No. 12-1982]
   On and after the effective date of this article, all automatic amusement
games of the type commonly known and designated as "pinball" or "bagatelle"
amusement games, including video-type games or machines or similar devices that
use a display screen for points, lines and dots of light that can be
manipulated to simulate games or other types of entertainment, and all musical
entertainment machines of the type commonly known as "juke boxes," maintained
or used in any public or quasi-public place or in any building, store or other
place wherein the public is invited or wherein the public may enter shall be
licensed by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton and shall not
be operated, maintained or used within the municipal limits of said Town of
Hammonton without first having obtained a license for that purpose; provided,
however, that if a license has been issued and the person to whom it has been
issued shall thereafter be convicted of a violation of this article, said
license and every other license held by the licensee, under and by virtue of
this article, shall immediately be revoked by the Mayor and Common Council of
the Town of Hammonton.
§ 79-2. Definitions.
   As used in this article, the following terms shall have the meanings
indicated:
   PERSON
   Any individual, firm, member of any firm, partnership, member of any
partnership, corporation or any officer, director or stockholder of said
corporation.
§ 79-3. Issuance of license; fee; term.
[Amended 6-28-1982 by Ord. No. 12-1982]
   The license for the operation, maintenance or use of such amusement devices,
machines or video-type devices mentioned aforesaid shall be issued to and in
the name of the proprietor of the premises wherein the machine is to be
operated, maintained or used and shall be issued for the calendar year
commencing September 1 and expiring August 31 at 12:00 midnight. The fee for
the issuance of a license shall be $75 for each game, machine or device for the
said calendar year or any part thereof, except that the fee for the issuance of
a license for the musical entertainment machines, commonly known as "juke
boxes," shall be $20 for the said calendar year or any part thereof.
§ 79-4. Application for license.
[Amended 8-28-2023 by Ord. No. 015-2023]
A.   One application for all machines shall be filed with the Town Clerk, which
form of application shall contain:
   1.   The name and address of the applicant;
   2.   The name and address of the owner of the premises;
   3.   The address of the premises wherein the machine is to be operated,
maintained or used;
   4.   The name and address of the manufacturer, owner and distributor of each
machine;
   5.   The manufacturer's serial number (if a machine is replaced the
replacement machine shall be similarly reported to the Town Clerk within ten
days of installation);
   6.   A scaled sketch indicating the location of the premises, approximate
interior dimensions and proposed placement within the premises of said machines
that are to be installed, used or kept, which sketch shall be an accurate
representation of the premises; and
   7.   Whether or not the person making the application has ever been
convicted of a violation of this article, its amendments and supplements, or of
any previous ordinance of the Town regulating the use of such machines.
B.   The fee for the license shall be payable with the filing of the
application, and if the application is rejected, the fee is to be returned to
the applicant.
§ 79-5. Application filing date.
[Added 6-28-1982 by Ord. No. 12-1982]
   All applications for the devices or machines specified in this article shall
be filed with the proper authority no later than the August 1 immediately prior
to the term specified in §
79-3; provided, however, that an application for any part of the calendar year
specified in §
79-3 may be filed at any time.
§ 79-6. Affixing licenses to machines prior to use.
[Amended 8-28-2023 by Ord. No. 015-2023]
   No device or machine as specified in this article shall be operated,
maintained or used until the license issued by the Mayor and Council of the
Town of Hammonton shall be issued and affixed in a conspicuous place in the
room where the machines are located so that the same may be easily and quickly
identified and inspected. Said license shall on its face disclose the name of
the manufacturer for each machine, owner and distributor for each machine, the
manufacturer's serial number for each machine, the name of the licensee and the
address of the premises wherein the machines are to be maintained, operated or
used.
§ 79-7. License transfers; fee.
[Amended 8-28-2023 by Ord. No. 015-2023]
Editor's Note: Amended at time of adoption of Code (see
Ch. 1, General Provisions, Art. I). A license shall not be transferable from
person to person or usable at any place except the premises designated on the
license. A license may not be used for any other machine not part of the
license; provided, however, that a transfer may be applied for by the licensee
for the use on another machine by the same proprietor and at the same premises.
An application must first be filed, which form of application shall contain the
same information as set forth in §
79-4, together with a complete statement of the reason for the transfer. A
transfer fee of $10 must accompany the said application. Upon the granting of
the transfer, the original license must be surrendered, and a transfer license,
so designated on the face of the license, shall be issued which contains the
information set forth in §
79-6. Such transfer license must at all times be kept and maintained by the
licensee in the same manner as provided herein for the original license.
§ 79-8. License to remain on premises.
[Amended 8-28-2023 by Ord. No. 015-2023]
   Except in the case of the surrender of a license to the Mayor and Common
Council of the Town of Hammonton, any license issued pursuant to this article
must at all times be kept and maintained on the licensee's premises and subject
to identification or inspection by the proper officers of the municipality.
§ 79-9. [Reserved.]
[Repealed 8-28-2023 by Ord. No. 015-2023]
§ 79-10. Use of devices for gambling deemed violation.
   Any person who shall use or permit to be used any of the machines or devices
licensed hereunder for the purposes of gambling shall be deemed to be guilty of
a violation of this article and punishable therefor as herein provided.
§ 79-11. [Reserved.]
   [Repealed 8-28-2023 by Ord. No. 015-2023]
§ 79-12. Purpose.
[Amended 6-28-1982 by Ord. No. 12-1982 Editor's Note: Amended at time of
adoption of Code (see
Ch. 1, General Provisions, Art. I). ]
   This article is enacted for the purpose of regulation and control of
pinball, bagatelle, video-type or musical entertainment machines or devices.
§ 79-13. Violations and penalties.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall, upon
conviction in the Municipal Court or any other court having jurisdiction, be
punished for each offense by one or more of the following: a fine of not more
than $1,000, imprisonment for a period not to exceed 90 days or a period of
community service not to exceed 90 days. The Judge of the Municipal Court or
the Judge of any other court having jurisdiction, before whom any person is
convicted of violating this article, shall have the power to impose any fine or
term of imprisonment or community service not exceeding the maximum fixed in
this article.
Article II.
Licensing of Carnival Grounds Games
[Adopted 4-12-1976 by Ord. No. 7-1976]
§ 79-14. Restrictions on licenses.
   All licenses issued under this article shall be issued for a specific game
as hereinafter defined, at a specific location within that area known as the
"Carnival Grounds," consisting of all lands owned by the Our Lady of Mount
Carmel Society situate between French Street and Pratt Street and between North
Third Street and Tilton Street in the Town of Hammonton, which premises are
hereby determined to be a recognized amusement and entertainment area of the
Town of Hammonton under Chapter 109 of the Public Laws of 1959 (N.J.S.A. 5:8-
100 et seq.) the same having been used for festivals and celebrations within
the Town of Hammonton for over 40 years.
§ 79-15. License required.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to own or operate
within this municipality any amusement game or games as said amusement game or
games are defined by the aforesaid Amusement Games Licensing Law (P.L. 1959, c.
109; N.J.S.A. 5:8-100 et seq.), whether said amusement game or games are of
skill or chance, or both, and whether said amusement game or games are played
and operated with or without numbers, symbols or figures, without first having
obtained a proper license from the Town Clerk/Administrator of the Town of
Hammonton. Said license shall be issued subject to the provisions of the
Amusement Games Licensing Law (P.L. 1959, c. 109; N.J.S.A. 5:8-100 et seq.),
and the Revised Amusement Games Regulations Editor's Note: See N.J.A.C. 13:3-
1.1 et seq. (effective 4-11-1966) promulgated by the Office of Amusement Games
Control, Department of Law and Public Safety of the State of New Jersey.
§ 79-16. Filing of application.
   Each applicant for such a license shall file with the Town Clerk/
Administrator a written application therefor, in duplicate. The application
must be in the form prescribed by the Commissioner of Amusement Games Control
and must comply with all the requirements as specifically set forth in Section
2 of Chapter 109 of the Public Laws of 1959 (N.J.S.A. 5:8-102) and any
amendments and supplements thereto and any additional requirements as may be
promulgated from time to time by the Amusement Games Control Commissioner of
the State of New Jersey.
§ 79-17. Investigation of applicant.
   The Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton shall make an
investigation of the qualifications of each applicant and the merits of each
application as authorized and directed by the Amusement Games Licensing Law.
Each individual applicant, the officers, directors and stockholders (including
the officers, directors and stockholders of any corporation holding 5% or more
of the capital stock) of any corporate applicant, as well as the partners or
members, as the case may be, of any partnership, association or organization
applicant, shall be fingerprinted under the supervision of the Municipal Chief
of Police. The fingerprint records so obtained shall be marked "Applicant" and
shall be submitted to the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the New Jersey
State Police Bureau of Identification; and, upon receipt of returns from such
Bureaus, the Chief of Police shall make a report thereof to the Mayor and
Common Council of the Town of Hammonton, together with a report of any other
arrest or conviction record which may be obtained from other sources. Failure
or refusal of any of the above-designated persons to submit to fingerprinting
shall be deemed cause for denial of the application. No license shall be issued
to any applicant if any of the above persons required to be fingerprinted in
connection with the application are not of good moral character or have ever
been convicted of a crime, unless the disqualification resulting from such
conviction has been removed by the Commissioner of Amusement Games Control
pursuant to Chapter 200 of the Public Laws of 1962 (N.J.S.A. 5:8-102, 5:8-103
and 5:8-105).
§ 79-18. Time limit on license; contents; display.
   A.   Upon proof of compliance with all applicable requirements, the Mayor
and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton shall authorize the Town Clerk/
Administrator to issue a license for a particular game at a specific location
within the Carnival Grounds for a period not to exceed a maximum of 10 days
from the date of issuance. A certified copy of the license issued by the Town
Clerk/Administrator shall be transmitted, along with a copy of the application
for said license, to the Commissioner of Amusement Games Control. Each license
shall be issued in triplicate with the original delivered to the applicant, one
copy delivered to the Commissioner of Amusement Games Control and with one copy
retained by the Town Clerk/Administrator.
   B.   The license shall indicate thereon:
      (1)   The name of the licensee;
      (2)   The licensee's home address;
      (3)   The address of the licensed premises;
      (4)   An exact description of the kind of game licensed;
      (5)   The fact that the fee as hereinafter set forth has been paid, with
a delineation of the amount paid; and
      (6)   A statement of the dates between which and the hours between which
such game may be conducted.
   C.   Each license so issued by the Town of Hammonton shall be conspicuously
displayed at the place or the places where the game is to be conducted at all
times during the conduct thereof.
   D.   The securing of this license shall in no way supersede or affect the
obligation of the licensee to secure a state license from the State
Commissioner of Amusement Games Control pursuant to Regulation 2 of the Revised
Amusement Games Regulations of the State of New Jersey, Department of Law and
Public Safety, Office of Amusement Games Control, as effective April 11, 1966,
and filed with the Secretary of State of the State of New Jersey on April 11,
1966. Editor's Note: See N.J.A.C. 13:3-1.1 et seq.
§ 79-19. Hearing upon refusal; amendment of existing licenses.
   A.   No application for the issuance of a license shall be refused by the
Town Clerk/Administrator until after a hearing is held on due notice to the
applicant, at which time the applicant shall be entitled to be heard upon the
qualifications of the applicant and the merits of the application.
   B.   Any license issued under this article may be amended upon application
made to the Town Clerk/Administrator, if the subject matter of the proposed
amendment could lawfully and properly have been included in the original
license and upon payment of such additional license fee, if any, as would have
been payable if it had been so included.
§ 79-20. Control and supervision of games.
   The Chief of Police shall have and exercise control and supervision over all
amusement games held, operated or conducted under such license with all the
powers authorized or granted under said Amusement Games Licensing Law and all
amendments and supplements thereto.
§ 79-21. Forfeiture of license.
   An person, association or corporation who or which shall make any false
statement in any application for such license or shall fail to keep such
adequate and proper books and records as shall fully and truly record all
transactions connected with the holding, operating or conducting of amusement
games under such license or shall falsify or make any false entry in any books
or records insofar as they relate to any transaction connected with the
holding, operating and conducting of any amusement game under any such license
or shall violate any of the provisions of this article or the Amusement Games
Licensing Law (P.L. 1959, c. 109; N.J.S.A. 5:8-100 et seq.), or of any of the
terms of such license shall be a disorderly person and, if convicted as such,
shall, in addition to suffering any other penalties which may be imposed,
forfeit any license issued to it under this article.
§ 79-22. Separate licenses per game and location; fee.
[Amended 6-25-1984 by Ord. No. 8-1984]
   There shall be issued to an applicant who shall qualify for a license a
separate license for each specific game authorized to be held, operated and
conducted on the Carnival Grounds by the licensee, and a separate license shall
be issued for each location within the Carnival Grounds at which the licensee
is authorized to hold, operate and conduct such game; except, however, that
only one license will be required at each separate location on the Carnival
Grounds where no more than 50 of the arcade games, as described in
Certification No. 2 of N.J.A.C. 13:3-7.9, are collected within one enclosure.
Said license shall be for the specific term of the affair to be conducted, but
in no case shall it exceed a maximum of 10 days. The license fee for such
license for each game at each specific location shall be $50. Said fee shall be
paid without proration and shall accompany the application for the license. The
fee for the location where no more than 50 arcade games are located, as
described above, shall be $50 for the first 50 games and $25 per game for each
game over the total of 50. Said fee shall be paid without proration and shall
accompany the application for the license.
§ 79-23. Dates of operation; minors.
   No application shall be made for any license to conduct any game on the
Carnival Grounds between October 1 and April 30 of each given year. It is
expressly understood that all amusement games of chance as permitted under this
article and the Amusement Games Control Regulations shall be for defined
periods between May 1 and September 30. All licenses shall give the licensee
the right to operate for the specific term set forth on the license between the
hours of 9:00 a.m. and 1:00 a.m. on each specific day within said term. No
person under the age of 18 years shall be permitted to play any game authorized
under this article.
§ 79-24. Permissible games.
[Amended 6-25-1984 by Ord. No. 8-1984]
   All games permitted under the Amusement Games Licensing Law, otherwise known
as Chapter 109 of the Public Laws of 1959 (N.J.S.A. 5:8-100 et seq.) and
permitted within the Revised Amusement Games Regulations of the Office of the
Amusement Games Control of the Department of Law and Public Safety of the State
of New Jersey, as promulgated April 11, 1966 Editor's Note: See N.J.A.C. 13:3-
1.1 et seq. and as amended by Permissible Amusement Games Certificate Nos. 1,
2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8, shall be permissible games for which a license may
issue under this article.
§ 79-25. Time limit for filing application.
   All applications for licenses under this article shall be filed with the
appropriate license fee with the Town Clerk/Administrator of the Town of
Hammonton at least 10 days prior to the proposed issuance date for said
license, in order that a proper investigation may be made of the applicant, and
each license issued under this article shall be valid only for the specific
time enumerated thereon.
§ 79-26. Certificate of insurance.
   All applicants for licenses under this article shall file with said
application a certificate of insurance, designating the Town of Hammonton as an
additional insured, insuring said game and the owner or operator thereof for
all personal injuries and property damage claims arising from the operation of
said game or the maintenance of same, which coverage shall be with a licensed
insurance carrier authorized to do business in the State of New Jersey and
shall be in the amount of at least $1,000,000 per individual or accident.
§ 79-27. Violations and penalties.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
article shall be subject to one or more of the following: a fine of not more
than $1,000, imprisonment for a period not to exceed 90 days or a period of
community service not to exceed 90 days, and the same shall be in addition to
the powers of suspension or revocation of any such license as provided for
herein.
CHAPTER 82.
ANIMALS
[HISTORY: Adopted by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton as
indicated in article histories. Amendments noted where applicable.]
ARTICLE I.
Licensing of Dogs
   
§ 82-1.   Definitions.
   
§ 82-2.   License required.
   
§ 82-3.   Licensing frequency; display.
   
§ 82-4.   Authorization of Animal Control Officer to issue licenses;
compensation.
   
§ 82-5.   License and registration fees; special purpose dogs.
   
§ 82-6.   Time limit for application for license.
   
§ 82-7.   Contents of application; recordkeeping.
   
§ 82-8.   Licensing of out-of-town licensed and unlicensed dogs.
   
§ 82-9.   Removal of registration tags.
   
§ 82-10.   (Reserved)
   
§ 82-11.   (Reserved)
   
§ 82-12.   Restraint of animals off animal facilities premises or owner’s
premises.
   
§ 82-13.   Disposition of fees collected.
   
§ 82-14.   List of licensed animal facilities forwarded to state.
   
§ 82-15.   Annual canvass of dogs; reports.
   
§ 82-16.   Animal Control Officer and animal catchers.
   
§ 82-17.   Impoundment; notice; disposal; redemption fee.
   
§ 82-18.   Seizure practices.
   
§ 82-19.   Interference with authorities.
   
§ 82-20.   Control of animals causing nuisances and disturbance.
   
§ 82-21.   Control of animals causing property damage or nuisance.
   
§ 82-22.   Violations and penalties.
   
§ 82-22A.   Limitation on number of domestic dogs or other animals.
ARTICLE II.
Vicious Dogs
   
§ 82-23.   Purpose.
   
§ 82-24.   Types of cases.
   
§ 82-25.   Potentially dangerous dog.
   
§ 82-26.   Vicious dogs.
   
§ 82-27.   Appeal.
ARTICLE III.
Waterfowl
   
§ 82-28.   Purpose.
   
§ 82-29.   Prohibited conduct.
   
§ 82-30.   Waterfowl defined.
   
§ 82-31.   Enforcement.
   
§ 82-32.   Notification.
   
§ 82-33.   Violations and penalties.
ARTICLE IV.
Control of Dogs
   
§ 82-34.   Control of dogs in public places.
   
§ 82-35.   Running at large.
   
§ 82-36.   Nuisances by dog; sanitary requirements.
   
§ 82-37.   Inclement weather.
   
§ 82-37A.   Domestic animals in vehicles.
   
§ 82-38.   Tethering of dogs.
ARTICLE V
Dog Parks
   
§ 82-39.   Hammonton Dog Park.
   
§ 82-40.   Use of dog park by Hammonton residents.
   
§ 82-41.   Use of dog park by non-Hammonton residents.
   
§ 82-42.   Hold Harmless/Dog Park Agreement.
   
§ 82-43.   Key fob or other entry device.
   
§ 82-44.   Lost, stolen or missing key fob or other entry device.
GENERAL REFERENCES
   K-9 Corps — See
Ch. 51, Art. II.
   Litter from pets — See
Ch. 184, Art. I.
   Animals in parks — See
Ch. 200, §
200-4.
   Pets in trailer camps — See
Ch. 264.
   Fastening animals to trees — See
Ch. 267.
Article I.
Licensing of Dogs
[Adopted 4-28-1980 by Ord. No. 14-1980]
§ 82-1. Definitions.
   A.   The words hereinafter defined shall have the meanings herein indicated
for the purposes of this article as follows:
   ANIMAL(S)
   Any other domestic animal(s).
   DOG
   Any dog, bitch or spayed bitch.
   DOG OF LICENSING AGE
   Any dog which has attained the age of seven months or which possesses a set
of permanent teeth.
   KENNEL
   Any establishment wherein or whereon the business of boarding or selling
dogs or breeding dogs for sale is carried on, except a pet shop.
   LOCAL BOARD
   The Atlantic County Board of Health.
   OWNER
   When applied to the proprietorship of a dog or animal, includes every person
having a right of property in such a dog or animal and every person who has
such dog or animal in his/her keeping.
   PERSON
   An individual, firm, partnership, corporation or association of persons.
   PET SHOP
   Any place of business which is not part of a kennel, wherein animals,
including, but not limited to, dogs, cats, birds, fish, reptiles, rabbits,
hamsters or gerbils, are kept or displayed chiefly for the purpose of sale to
individuals for personal appreciation and companionship rather than for
business or research purposes.
[Amended 7-23-2001 by Ord. No. 26-2001]
   POUND
   An establishment for the confinement of dogs or animals seized either under
the provisions of this article or otherwise.
   SHELTER
   Any establishment where dogs or other animals are received, housed and
distributed.
[Amended 7-23-2001 by Ord. No. 26-2001]
   TOWN
   The Town of Hammonton in the County of Atlantic, State of New Jersey.
   B.   Word usage.
      (1)   The words "and" and "or" may be used interchangeably and either of
the two may be applicable, whichever is more conducive towards the effectuating
of this article.
      (2)   Personal pronouns shall mean either the singular or the plural,
whichever is applicable and conducive towards the effectuating of this article.
      (3)   The masculine, feminine or the neuter gender shall be implied,
whichever is appropriate and conducive for the effectuating of this article.
§ 82-2. License required.
   No person shall keep or harbor any dog within the Town of Hammonton, in the
County of Atlantic, without first obtaining a license therefor, to be issued by
the Town Clerk/Administrator upon application by the owner and payment of the
prescribed fee, and no person shall keep or harbor any dog or animal in said
town except in compliance with the provisions of this article.
§ 82-3. Licensing frequency; display.
[Amended 4-18-2011 by Ord. No. 10-2011]
   Any person who shall own, keep or harbor a dog of licensing age shall be
required to obtain a dog license from the Town Clerk's office upon renewal of
rabies vaccination or every three years, as appropriate, and shall be required
to display same upon the dog’s collar, harness or otherwise.
§ 82-4. Authorization of Animal Control Officer to issue licenses;
compensation.
[Added 7-22-1985 by Ord. No. 11-1985; amended 4-24-1989 by Ord. No. 10-1989; 7-
28-1997 by Ord. No. 11-1997]
   A.   In addition to the Town Clerk/Administrator, as authorized by §§
82-2 and 82-3 of this article, the Animal Control Officer of the Town of
Hammonton shall be, and hereby is, authorized to issue dog licenses and
official metal registration tags.
   B.   The Animal Control Officer shall, during the annual canvass as required
by §
82-14 of this article, register all dogs subject to said canvass and may, in
accordance with this Code, issue a dog license and registration tag for each
such dog, provided that the appropriate fees, as required by §
82-4A, as amended, are collected by said Animal Control Officer at the time of
issuance of the license and registration tag.
   C.   The Animal Control Officer shall account to the Town Clerk/
Administrator for all income received from the sale of licenses, registration
tags and/or late charges. The Animal Control Officer is entitled to retain from
the late charges only the sum of $2.50 per late charge as and for his/her
compensation.
§ 82-5. License and registration fees; special purpose dogs.
[Amended 12-14-1981 by Ord. No. 20-1981; 9-26-1983 by Ord. No. 9-1983]
   A.   Any person obtaining a (3 year) dog license in the Town of Hammonton
shall pay $26.40 (local fee), $3.60 (state registration tag fee), and $9.00
(state nonspayed or nonneutered dog fee). Any person obtaining a (1 year) dog
license in the Town of Hammonton shall pay $15.80 (local fee), $1.20 (state
registration tag fee), and $3.00 (state nonspayed or nonneutered dog fee).
[Amended 10-25-2004 by Ord. No. 24-2004; 4-18-2011 by Ord. No. 10-2011; 9-28-
2015 by Ord. No. 015-2015]
   B.   Dogs used as guides for blind persons and commonly known as "seeing-
eye" dogs, dogs used to assist handicapped persons and commonly known as
"service dogs," or dogs used to assist deaf persons and commonly known as
"hearing ear" dogs shall be licensed and registered as other dogs hereinabove
provided for, except that the owner or keeper of such dog shall not be required
to pay any fee therefor. Editor's Note: Former Subsection C, regarding a late
fee, added 4-24-1989 by Ord. No. 10-1989, which subsection immediately
followed, was repealed 4-18-2011 by Ord. No. 10-2011.
[Amended 7-23-2001 by Ord. No. 26-2001]
§ 82-6. Time limit for application for license.
   The owner of any newly acquired dog of licensing age or of any dog which
attains licensing age shall make application for a license and registration tag
for such dog within 10 days after such acquisition or age attainment.
§ 82-7. Contents of application; recordkeeping.
   The application shall state the breed, sex, age, color and markings of the
dog for which a license and registration are sought and also the name, street
and post office address of the owner and the person who shall keep or harbor
such dog. The information on said application and the registration number
issued for the dog shall be preserved for a period of three years by the Town
Clerk/Administrator. In addition, he or she shall forward similar information
to the Department of Health each month on forms furnished by said Department.
Registration numbers shall be issued in the order of the applications.
§ 82-8. Licensing of out-of-town licensed and unlicensed dogs.
   A.   Any person who shall bring or cause to be brought into the Town of
Hammonton any dog licensed in another state for the current year and bearing a
registration tag and shall keep the same or permit the same to be kept within
the town for a period of more than 90 days shall immediately apply for a
license and registration tag for each such dog, unless such dog is licensed
under §
82-10 of this article.
   B.   Any person who shall bring or cause to be brought into the town any
unlicensed dog and shall keep the same or permit the same to be kept within the
town for a period of more than 10 days shall immediately apply for a license
and registration tag for each such dog, unless such dog is licensed under §
82-10 of this article.
§ 82-9. Removal of registration tags.
   No person, except an officer in the performance of duties, shall remove a
registration tag from the collar of any dog without the consent of the owner,
nor shall any person attach a registration tag to a dog for which it is not
issued.
§ 82-10. (Reserved)
Editor's Note: Former § 82-10, Licensing of animal facilities, as amended, was
repealed 6-26-2006 by Ord. No. 12-2006. See
Ch. 109, Business Registration.
§ 82-11. (Reserved)
Editor's Note: Former § 82-11, License fees for kennels and pet shops, was
repealed 6-26-2006 by Ord. No. 12-2006. See
Ch. 109, Business Registration.
§ 82-12. Restraint of animals off animal facilities premises or owner’s
premises.
[Amended 10-28-2013 by Ord. No. 024-2013]
   No dogs or other domestic animals, including, but not limited to, cats, kept
in a kennel, pet shop, shelter or pound shall be permitted off such premises or
off of the premises of a private residential owner except on a leash or in a
crate or other safe form of control.
§ 82-13. Disposition of fees collected.
   A.   License fees and other money collected or received under the provisions
of this article, except registration tag fees, shall be forwarded to the
Treasurer of the town within 30 days after collection or receipt and shall be
placed in a special account separate from any of the other accounts of the town
and which shall be used for the following purposes only: for collecting,
keeping and disposing of dogs or animals liable to seizure under this article;
for local prevention and control of rabies; for providing antirabic treatment
under the direction of the Health Officer of the town for any person known or
suspected to have been exposed to rabies; and for all other purposes prescribed
by the statutes of New Jersey governing the subject and for administering the
provisions of this article. Any unexpended balance remaining in such special
account shall be retained therein until the end of the third fiscal year
following and may be used for any of the purposes set forth in this section. At
the end of said third fiscal year following and at the end of each fiscal year
thereafter, there shall be transferred from such special account to the general
funds of the town any amount then in such account which is in excess of the
total amount paid into said special account during the last two fiscal years
next preceding.
   B.   The registration tag fee of $0.50 for each dog shall be forwarded
within 30 days after collection by the Town Clerk/Administrator to the State
Department of Health.
§ 82-14. List of licensed animal facilities forwarded to state.
   The Town Clerk/Administrator shall forward to the State Department of Health
a list of all kennels, pet shops, shelters and pounds licensed within 30 days
after the licenses therefor are issued, which list shall include the name and
address of the licensee and the kind of license issued.
§ 82-15. Annual canvass of dogs; reports.
[Amended 4-14-1989 by Ord. No. 10-1989; 7-28-1997 by Ord. No. 11-1997]
   The Animal Control Officer of the Town of Hammonton shall, either
individually or through the use of canvassers employed by the Mayor and
Council, cause a canvass to be made of all dogs owned, kept or harbored within
the limits of the Town of Hammonton and shall report on or before September 1
of each year to the Town Clerk/Administrator, to the Dog Registrar and to the
Atlantic County Board of Health the result of said canvass, setting forth in
separate columns the names and addresses of persons owning, keeping or
harboring unlicensed dogs, the number of unlicensed dogs owned, kept or
harbored by each of said persons, together with a complete description of each
of said unlicensed dogs.
§ 82-16. Animal Control Officer and animal catchers.
[Amended 7-28-1997 by Ord. No. 11-1997]
   The Mayor and Council shall have the power to appoint an Animal Control
Officer, whose duty it shall be to enforce the provisions of this article. The
Council shall also have the power to appoint one or more persons, to be known
as "animal catchers," who may impound unlicensed dogs and dogs or animals
running at large in violation of the provisions of this article.
§ 82-17. Impoundment; notice; disposal; redemption fee.
[Amended 7-28-1997 by Ord. No. 11-1997]
   A.   The Animal Control Officer shall take into custody and impound the dogs
or animals at the town pound and thereafter destroy or dispose of same, as
provided in this section, any dogs or animals off the premises of the owner or
of the person keeping or harboring said dog or animal unless accompanied by the
owner or person harboring said dog or animal and controlled by said owner or
person harboring said dog or animal by the use of a leash, crate or other safe
control. No dog or animal so impounded shall be kept on the premises of the
Animal Control Officer.
   B.   If any dog or animal so seized wears a collar or harness having
inscribed thereon or attached thereto the name and address of any person or a
registration tag or if the owner or the person keeping or harboring said dog or
animal is known, the Animal Control Officer shall forthwith serve on the person
whose address is given on the inscribed collar or on the owner or the person
keeping or harboring said dog or animal, if shown, a notice, in writing,
stating that the dog or animal has been seized and will be liable to be
disposed of or destroyed if not claimed within seven days after the service of
the notice.
   C.   A notice under this section may be served either by delivering it to
the person on whom it is to be served or by forwarding it by post in a prepaid
letter addressed to that person at his/her usual or last known place of abode
or to the address given on the inscribed collar or harness.
   D.   When any dog or animal so seized has been detained for seven days after
notice when notice can be given as above set forth, or has been detained for
seven days after seizure when no notice has been given as set forth above, and
if the owner or person keeping or harboring said dog or animal has not claimed
said dog or animal and paid all expenses incurred by reason of its detention,
including a maintenance fee of $4 per day, or if a dog is unlicensed at the
time of the seizure and the owner or person keeping or harboring said dog has
not produced a license or registration tag for said dog, the Animal Control
Officer may cause the dog or animal to be destroyed in a manner causing as
little pain as possible. Editor's Note: Amended at time of adoption of Code
(see
Ch. 1, General Provisions, Art. I).
   E.   The pickup fee for all purposes of any dog or animal so impounded shall
be $15, to be recovered by and in the name of the town pursuant to §
82-13 of this article.
   F.   The Animal Control Officer is hereby authorized to go upon any premises
to seize for impounding any dog or animal or dogs or animals which may lawfully
be seized and impounded when such Animal Control Officer is in immediate
pursuit of such dog or animal or dogs or animals, except upon the premises of
the owner of the dog or animal if said owner is present and forbids the same.
   G.   The Animal Control Officer is authorized to deal in the sale or
bartering of any dog or animal impounded or otherwise in his/her custody or
control. Any and all proceeds there from shall be collected by and paid
directly to the Town Clerk/Administrator and a record made of such
transactions. Furthermore, all proceeds collected or received under this
provision shall be forwarded to the Treasurer of the town by the Town Clerk/
Administrator pursuant to §
82-13 of this article, and such proceeds shall be used for limited purposes as
specified in §
82-13 of this article.
§ 82-18. Seizure practices.
   Any officer or agent authorized or empowered to perform any duty under this
article is hereby authorized to go upon any premises to seize for impounding
any dog or animal or dogs or animals which may lawfully be seized and impounded
when such officer is in immediate pursuit of such dog or animal or dogs or
animals, except upon the premises of the owner of the dog or animals if said
owner is present and forbids the same.
§ 82-19. Interference with authorities.
   No person shall hinder, molest or interfere with anyone authorized or
empowered to perform any duty under this article.
§ 82-20. Control of animals causing nuisances and disturbance.
   No person shall keep on any premises within the Town of Hammonton any dog or
animal causing a nuisance and disturbing the peace and quiet of the
neighborhood in which it is kept, whether said nuisance or disturbance of the
peace is caused by excessive, loud and continuous barking and howling or
through the excessive, loud, continuous making of any similar sounds or noises.
§ 82-21. Control of animals causing property damage or nuisance.
[Amended 10-28-2013 by Ord. No. 024-2013]
   A.   No person owning, maintaining or harboring any dog or animal shall
permit a dog or animal at large or a dog or animal which has previously
displayed a tendency to do damage to do any injury or damage to any lawn,
shrubbery, flowers, grounds or other personal property within the Town of
Hammonton. For purposes of this section, to permit a dog or animal at large to
deposit excrement on the property of another shall be considered a violation of
this section for all purposes.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to feed or harbor a stray dog or
domestic animal including, but not limited to, cats, without assuming full
ownership of same and subsequently, complying with all provisions of the town's
Animal Ordinance including, but not limited to, acquiring a rabies vaccination
and license. In the event of a complaint filed against an individual feeding or
harboring stray animals under this subsection, presentation of proof of a
rabies vaccination and license shall be a defense to that complaint.
§ 82-22. Violations and penalties.
[Amended 4-24-1989 by Ord. No. 10-1989]
   Except as provided in N.J.S.A. 4:19-15.19, violation of this article shall
be subject to one or more of the following: a fine of not more than $1,000,
imprisonment for a period not to exceed 90 days or a period of community
service not to exceed 90 days.
§ 82-22A. Limitation on number of domestic dogs or other animals.
[Adopted 10-28-2013 by Ord. No. 024-2013]
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain upon any premises a number
of domestic animals including, but not limited to, dogs and cats, in excess of
that which he/she has the ability to manage in a humane, safe and healthful
environment. It shall be the responsibility of the Animal Control Officer to
make a determination whether the number of such animals exceeds that limit and,
if so, to issue a warning directing that if the number of animals is not
reduced to a limit which meets that standard, a citation under this section
shall issue.
Article II.
Vicious Dogs
[Adopted 12-14-1992 by Ord. No. 35-1992]
§ 82-23. Purpose.
   The purpose of this article is to comply with the uniform statewide approach
to the serious and widespread threat that unprovoked dog attacks pose to the
safety and welfare of citizens. This article complies with a comprehensive
scheme directed toward ascertaining whether a dog is vicious or potentially
dangerous. It will also prescribe various requirements for dogs that are found
to be vicious or potentially dangerous, ranging from mandatory licensure of
such dogs to humane destruction. Editor's Note: Former § 82-25, Hearing panel,
which immediately followed this section, was repealed 5-22-1995 by Ord. No. 14-
1995. This ordinance also provided that "all matters will now be heard by and
before the Municipal Court of the Town of Hammonton."
§ 82-24. Types of cases.
   Whenever the Animal Control Officer shall seize and impound a dog that has
attacked a person and caused death or serious bodily injury, or caused bodily
injury to a person during an unprovoked attack, or engaged in dog fighting
activities, or had been trained, tormented, badgered, baited or encouraged to
engage in unprovoked attacks upon persons or domestic animals, the officer
shall notify the Chief of Police that a hearing should be convened pursuant to
N.J.S.A. 4:19-20.
§ 82-25. Potentially dangerous dog.
   If it is determined by the panel that a dog is one characterized as
potentially dangerous, the owner, to avoid destruction of the dog, must comply
with those conditions outlined in N.J.S.A. 4:19-24. The panel shall specify in
writing the date or dates for compliance with all conditions. In addition to
the requirements specified in N.J.S.A. 4:19-24, the owner of the potentially
dangerous dog must also:
   A.   Maintain liability insurance covering acts committed by the dog in a
minimum amount of $1,000,000 and provide proof of this liability coverage to
the municipality to obtain a potentially dangerous dog license.
   B.   Pay an annual license fee to the municipality of $500.
§ 82-26. Vicious dogs.
[Amended 5-22-1995 by Ord. No. 14-1995]
   A.   If it is determined by the Municipal Court that a dog is one
characterized as vicious, the dog shall be destroyed in a humane and
expeditious manner.
   B.   The Municipal Court shall declare a dog vicious if it finds by clear
and convincing evidence that the dog:
      (1)   Killed a person or caused serious bodily injury, as defined in
N.J.S.A. 2C:11-1b, to a person (unless the dog was provoked).
      (2)   Has engaged in dog fighting activities, as described in N.J.S.A. 4:
22-24 and 4:22-26.
   C.   The municipality shall bear the burden of proof to demonstrate that the
dog was not provoked.
§ 82-27. Appeal.
[Amended 5-22-1995 by Ord. No. 14-1995]
   Any appeal of any final decision, order or judgment issued by the Municipal
Court shall be made by filing an appeal with the Superior Court, Law Division,
in accordance with the New Jersey Court Rules pertaining to appeals from courts
of limited jurisdiction.
Article III.
Waterfowl
[Adopted 9-12-1994 by Ord. No. 27-1994]
§ 82-28. Purpose.
   It has been determined that the presence of large numbers of waterfowl, on
and around the Hammonton Lake in the Town of Hammonton, causes a public health
nuisance in and around said lake, including the Hammonton Lake Park, which is
inimical to the health and welfare of the public. The purpose of this article
is to prevent such conduct that may attract such waterfowl to the Hammonton
Lake, including the Lake Park.
§ 82-29. Prohibited conduct.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, association or corporation to:
   A.   Feed any waterfowl.
   B.   Create any condition or allow any congregation or congestion of
waterfowl which:
      (1)   Results in an accumulation of waterfowl feces or droppings;
      (2)   Results in damage to flora or fauna on private or public property;
or
      (3)   Results in a threat or nuisance to the public health, safety or
general welfare of the public.
§ 82-30. Waterfowl defined.
   Waterfowl shall include those species of domesticated and undomesticated
birds commonly known as swans, geese, ducks, gulls or other types of waterfowl.
§ 82-31. Enforcement.
[Amended 8-25-1997 by Ord. No. 15-1997 Editor's Note: Amended at time of
adoption of Code (see
Ch. 1, General Provisions, Art. I). ]
   This article shall be enforced by the following:
   A.   The Police Department of the Town of Hammonton.
   B.   The Town of Hammonton Animal Control Personnel.
§ 82-32. Notification.
   A.   The Police Department or other town officials of Hammonton, when
advised of a violation to this article, shall give notice of the nuisance to
the owner or occupant of the premises upon which the nuisance exists or the
feeding is occurring. Notice shall be deemed sufficient if it shall have been
served either personally or by mailing such notice through the United States
mail. Mailed notice is to be deemed served upon proof that such notice was
deposited in the United States mail, first class postage prepaid, and
addressed, in the case of an individual, to their business address, residence
address or such address as the records of the addresser shall reveal to be for
tax purposes; or, in the case of a corporation, to the registered office of the
agent of such corporation as revealed to be for tax purposes.
   B.   Such notice shall order nuisances to be immediately aborted and/or the
feeding immediately stopped.
§ 82-33. Violations and penalties.
   Any person or persons or corporation who continues to be in violation of the
provisions of this article after being duly notified shall, upon conviction, be
subject to one or more of the following: a fine of not more than $1,000,
imprisonment for a period not to exceed 90 days or a period of community
service not to exceed 90 days.
Article IV.
Control of Dogs
[Adopted 6-23-2003 by Ord. No. 12-2003]
§ 82-34. Control of dogs in public places.
   No person owning, keeping or harboring any dog shall suffer or permit it to
be upon the public streets or in any of the public places of the Town unless
such dog is accompanied by a responsible person and is securely confined and
controlled by an adequate leash not more than six feet long.
§ 82-35. Running at large.
   It shall be unlawful for any dog, whether licensed or not, to run at large
anywhere within the limits in the Town of Hammonton. A dog shall be deemed to
be running at large when off the premises of its owner or the person keeping or
harboring such dog and not on a leash or the like, the overall length of which
including the handgrip, shall not exceed six feet held by its owner or other
person able to control such dog.
§ 82-36. Nuisances by dog; sanitary requirements.
   A.   No person who owns, keeps, harbors, walks, or has custody of a dog
shall permit, cause, suffer or allow such dog to defecate upon, soil, defile or
commit any nuisances of any kind on any public or private property without the
express permission of the owner of such property.
   B.   In the event a dog should soil, defile or defecate upon any public or
private property, the owner, keeper, harborer and/or person having custody of
said dog shall immediately remove and sanitarily dispose of said dog's feces
and droppings deposited by such dog, which removal shall be by shovel,
container, disposal bag or any other sanitary matter.
§ 82-37. Inclement weather.
[Added 9-28-2015 by Ord. No. 015-2015]
   No pet residing in the Town of Hammonton shall be kept outdoors during
extreme weather conditions. Inclement weather for the purpose of this article
is any weather temperatures below 30 degrees or exceeding 80 degrees with
adequate food and water.
§ 82-37A. Domestic animals in vehicles.
[Added 9-28-2015 by Ord. No. 015-2015]
   Pets shall not be kept inside a vehicle or other enclosure in severe heat or
cold (no less than 45 degrees nor more than 70 degrees).
§ 82-38. Tethering of dogs.
[Added 9-28-2015 by Ord. No. 015-2015]
   A.   Dogs may be tethered only under the following circumstances:
      (1)   The tether must be at least 15 feet long and have an operative
swivel on both ends and be attached to a properly fitted collar or harness.
      (2)   The collar used for tethering may not be a choke chain collar, slip
collar or pronged harness.
      (3)   The tether must allow the dog access to proper shelter, sufficient
food and sufficient water.
      (4)   The tether may not be used in any area where it may be tangled
around an object, such as, but not limited to, a tree, pole, fence or stake.
      (5)   The tether cannot inhibit the movement of the animal's limbs or
cause injury, harm, entanglement or strangulation of the dog.
      (6)   The tether must restrain the dog within the bounds of the owner's
or custodian's property.
      (7)   The tether must terminate no less than five feet from any fence,
pool, wall, vehicle, sidewalk or roadway, or other object or obstruction upon
which the animal might harm itself.
      (8)   Dogs may be tethered for no more than six consecutive hours in any
24 hour period of time and never between sunset and sunrise.
      (9)   If there are multiple dogs, each dog shall be tethered separately
and in such manner that the tethers shall not become entangled with each other.
      (10)   No dog shall be tethered at a vacant structure or premises for any
purpose when it is not monitored by a competent adult who is present at the
property for the duration of such tethering.
      (11)   No dog that is sick or injured shall be tethered.
   B.   When a violation of this provision occurs, an animal control officer or
law enforcement officer is authorized to document the circumstances and obtain
evidence.
   C.   In the case where a resident keeps his or her domestic dog or animal
inside a fence, the fence shall be at least four feet in height and the area
where the domestic dog or animal resides shall be at least 5'X10'.
ARTICLE V
Dog Parks
[Adopted 3-20-2017 by Ord. No. 008-2017]
§ 82-39. Hammonton Dog Park.
   The Hammonton Dog Park shall be established and located off Moss Mill Road
in the Town of Hammonton and shall consist of a large dog park and a small dog
park and each shall have the perimeter fenced for safety, health and welfare of
dogs and civilians alike.
§ 82-40. Use of dog park by Hammonton residents.
   Any Hammonton resident who has purchased a dog license from the Municipal
Clerk office of the Town of Hammonton for their dog(s) upon providing proof of
rabies inoculation and who has signed the required Hold Harmless/Dog Park
Agreement, shall be issued a key fob or other form of lock device to gain entry
to the dog park.
§ 82-41. Use of dog park by non-Hammonton residents.
   Any non-Hammonton resident who has paid the annual fee of $25.00, provided
their current photo identification with current address matching their current
dog(s) license(s), provided a copy of their current dog(s) license issued by
the municipality in which they reside and pay property tax, has submitted proof
of rabies inoculation, has signed the Hold Harmless/Dog Park Agreement, shall
be issued a key fob or other form of lock device to gain entry to the dog park.
§ 82-42. Hold Harmless/Dog Park Agreement.
   The Hold Harmless/Dog Park Agreement attached to Ord. No. 008-2017 and
approved by the Town Solicitor and Risk Manager is the official Hold Harmless/
Dog Park Agreement.
§ 82-43. Key fob or other entry device.
   The key fob or other entry device shall be permanently issued to Hammonton
residents who obtain a dog license(s) per laws of the State of New Jersey and
the Town of Hammonton. The key fob or other entry device shall be issued and
expire annually upon completion of all terms and conditions sited in Section
82-41 of Article V.
§ 82-44. Lost, stolen or missing key fob or other entry device.
   A lost, stolen or missing key fob or other entry device(s) replacement shall
be replaced by the person named on the current Hold Harmless/Dog Park Agreement
paying a fee of $25.00 to the office of the Town Clerk. The Clerk may request
to see a police report or other document pertaining to the event relating to
the lost, stolen or missing key fob or other entry device.
CHAPTER 85.
ASSEMBLIES, PUBLIC
[HISTORY: Adopted by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton 11-
8-1971 by Ord. No. 12-1971. Amendments noted where applicable.]
   
§ 85-1.   Permit required.
   
§ 85-2.   Application for permit.
   
§ 85-3.   License and registration fees.
   
§ 85-3A.   License exemption.
   
§ 85-4.   Insurance.
   
§ 85-5.   Condition for issuance of permit.
   
§ 85-6.   Violations and penalties.
§ 85-1. Permit required.
   No person, group of persons, corporation or other organization of any kind
or description shall conduct any celebration, feast, parade or any other event
on the public streets and highways, public rights-of-way, public parks or other
public property of the Town of Hammonton without first securing a permit
therefor from the Town Clerk/Administrator of the Town of Hammonton.
§ 85-2. Application for permit.
   Any person, group of persons, corporation or other organization of any kind
or description as set forth in §
85-1 of this chapter who applies for a permit shall apply for said permit at
least 20 days prior to the scheduled event and shall specify on the application
for such permit:
   A.   The name and address of the organization holding the event.
   B.   The streets, highways, public rights-of-way, parks or other public
property upon which said event is to be held.
   C.   The scheduled time for the event and the duration of same.
   D.   Whether comestibles, including but not limited to beverages, are to be
sold, dispensed or consumed as a part of said event.
   E.   Whether the protection and use of the police force or other law
enforcement agencies of the Town of Hammonton will be required for said
purpose.
§ 85-3. License and registration fees.
[Amended 9-28-2015 by Ord. No. 016-2015]
   All applications shall be filed with the Town Clerk with a permit fee of $10
(except in the case of fraternal, religious or eleemosynary). All applications
shall be referred to the Administration Committee as well as the Chief of
Police for review and approval. Upon receiving approval of Administration
Committee and Chief of Police as well as compliance with all other aspects of
this chapter, the Clerk shall issue the permit.
§ 85-3A. License exemption.
[Added 9-28-2015 by Ord. No. 016-2015]
   Requests for public events/assemblies involving road closures that must be
approved by the Mayor and Council are exempt from applying for and paying the
permit fee. However, the group or person(s) must still comply with all other
requirements of this chapter.
§ 85-4. Insurance.
[Amended 9-28-2015 by Ord. No. 016-2015]
   The applicant shall file a Certificate of Insurance with the Clerk per Town
of Hammonton insurance requirements.
§ 85-5. Condition for issuance of permit.
   All applicants to whom a permit is issued under this chapter for the holding
of any parade, celebration, feast, festival or other event covered by this
chapter shall receive a permit which is specifically conditioned upon the
applicant and all concessionaires operating pursuant to said permit, dispensing
all beverages sold at said event only in paper cups or similar containers which
shall not be composed in any part of any metal, plastic or glass substance.
Editor's Note: Former § 66-6, Failure to acquire permit, which immediately
followed this section, was deleted at time of adoption of Code (see
Ch. 1, General Provisions, Art. I).
§ 85-6. Violations and penalties.
   Any person, group of persons, corporation or other organization of any kind
or description, or any member, agent or servant thereof, who holds any event
covered by the provisions of this chapter without a permit or violates §
85-5 of this chapter shall be prosecuted in the Hammonton Municipal Court and
shall be subject to one or more of the following: a fine of not more than
$1,000, imprisonment for a period not to exceed 90 days or a period of
community service not to exceed 90 days.
CHAPTER 88.
AUCTIONS
[HISTORY: Adopted by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton 9-
13-1971 by Ord. No. 10-1971 as Ch. 82 of the 1971 Code. Amendments noted where
applicable.]
   
§ 88-1.   License required to conduct auction.
   
§ 88-2.   Term defined.
   
§ 88-3.   Farmers' Cooperative Auction.
   
§ 88-4.   Application.
   
§ 88-5.   Investigation of application.
   
§ 88-6.   Bond.
   
§ 88-7.   Posting of license; nontransferable.
   
§ 88-8.   License fee.
   
§ 88-9.   Suspension and revocation.
   
§ 88-10.   Premises open to inspection.
   
§ 88-11.   Violations and penalties.
GENERAL REFERENCES
   Special sales — See
Ch. 244.
§ 88-1. License required to conduct auction.
   No person, firm, association, partnership or corporation shall hereafter
conduct or permit to be conducted any retail business commonly known and
designated as "auctions" in the Town of Hammonton, County of Atlantic and State
of New Jersey, unless a license for such business is first obtained from the
Town of Hammonton by the person desiring to operate said auction.
§ 88-2. Term defined.
   Any business wherein the price of articles to be sold is fixed and
determined by bidding shall be construed an auction within the meaning of this
chapter.
§ 88-3. Farmers' Cooperative Auction.
   This chapter shall not apply to the Farmers' Cooperative Auction.
§ 88-4. Application.
   Before any license is granted as set forth in §
88-1 of this chapter, the applicant shall make an application in writing
therefor to the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton, which
application shall disclose the following:
   A.   Name, age and residence of applicant.
   B.   Type of merchandise to be displayed and sold at auction.
   C.   Business references of three persons not related to the proposed
applicant.
   D.   Where applicant is a corporation, give the registered office of the
corporation and the name of the registered agent.
   E.   Whether applicant has ever been convicted of a crime.
§ 88-5. Investigation of application.
   The Mayor and Common Council shall investigate each application made, and
are empowered and authorized to issue a license for said auction.
§ 88-6. Bond.
   A.   The Mayor and Common Council shall require as a condition precedent to
granting of said license, a bond from said applicant of the Town of Hammonton
in the sum of $5,000, with sufficient sureties acceptable to the Mayor and
Common Council, and conditioned for the due observation of this chapter and
such other ordinances or regulations that may be passed respecting the conduct
or operation of such auctions.
   B.   Said bond shall be for the protection of persons and property and the
preservation of the safety and property of the municipality and its
inhabitants, and as may now or hereafter be required by any state law or
municipal ordinance or regulation. Said bond shall be renewed from time to time
and no auction shall be operated or conducted if said bond is expired, revoked
or canceled for any reason whatsoever.
§ 88-7. Posting of license; nontransferable.
   Such license, if granted, shall be conspicuously placed upon the premises
and shall in no case whatsoever be transferable.
§ 88-8. License fee.
   The license fee shall be the sum of $200 per year, all payable in advance
for each year, and each year shall commence on January 1 and expire on December
31 of each year.
§ 88-9. Suspension and revocation.
   The Mayor and Common Council may, upon its own motion or upon the complaint
in writing of any person, investigate the actions of the licensee, and shall
have power to suspend for the unexpired portion of the license period, or
revoke, any license issued under the provisions of this chapter or any
ordinance that may be hereafter adopted by said town, where the applicant,
licensee, tenant or any person acting for them or any of them, in performing or
attempting to perform any of the acts mentioned herein, is deemed to be guilty
of:
   A.   Making any false promises or misrepresentations.
   B.   For the violation of any part of the provisions of this chapter or
other ordinances or regulations relating thereto.
§ 88-10. Premises open to inspection.
   The said premises upon which said auctions are or may be located shall be
open to inspection at all reasonable hours by any town official or member of
the Department of Public Safety.
§ 88-11. Violations and penalties.
   Any person, firm, partnership, association or corporation, whether applicant
or tenant of any auction provided for in this chapter, and any person acting
for them or any of them, convicted of any violation of provision of this
chapter, shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to one or more of the
following: a fine of not more than $1,000, imprisonment for a period not to
exceed 90 days or a period of community service not to exceed 90 days.
CHAPTER 99.
BOATS ON HAMMONTON LAKE
[HISTORY: Adopted by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton 9-
13-1971 by Ord. No. 10-1971 as Ch. 74 of the 1971 Code; amended in its entirety
6-25-2007 by Ord. No. 20-2007. Subsequent amendments noted where applicable.]
   
§ 99-1.   Distance from bathers to be maintained.
   
§ 99-2.   Boats with motors.
   
§ 99-3.   Violations and penalties.
GENERAL REFERENCES
   Waterfowl around Hammonton Lake — See
Ch. 82, Art. III.
   Curfew for Hammonton Lake — See
Ch. 119.
   Parks and recreation areas — See
Ch. 200.
§ 99-1. Distance from bathers to be maintained.
   No person shall paddle, row, sail or otherwise operate any boat, including,
but not limited to, rowboat, sailboat, or recreation or fishing vessel,
regardless of means of propulsion, closer than 50 feet of any person swimming
or bathing in the Hammonton Lake.
§ 99-2. Boats with motors.
   With the limited exception of an electric trolling motor generating less
than 10 hp, no person shall operate on the Hammonton Lake any boat equipped
with any form of motorized propulsion.
§ 99-3. Violations and penalties.
   Each and every violator of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be,
upon his or her conviction thereof, subject to one or more of the following: a
fine of not more than $1,000, imprisonment for a period not to exceed 90 days,
or a period of community service not to exceed 90 days, and the Judge or other
proper officer having jurisdiction before whom such violator shall be convicted
may impose such fine, penalty, term of imprisonment or community service as he
or she may see fit, not exceeding the maximum herein fixed.
CHAPTER 104.
BUILDINGS, NUMBERING OF
[HISTORY: Adopted by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton 3-
27-1992 by Ord. No. 17-1992. Amendments noted where applicable.]
   
§ 104-1.   Purpose.
   
§ 104-2.   Applicability.
   
§ 104-3.   Responsibility for placement.
   
§ 104-4.   Specifications.
   
§ 104-5.   Assignment of numbers.
   
§ 104-6.   Enforcement.
   
§ 104-7.   Violations and penalties.
GENERAL REFERENCES
   Uniform construction codes — See
Ch. 115.
§ 104-1. Purpose.
   The purpose of this chapter is to require clear display of numbers which
have been authorized and assigned to all houses, buildings or other structures
which have frontage on any street in the Town of Hammonton in order to assist
the general public and emergency services, both public and private, in
identifying the property in case of emergency.
§ 104-2. Applicability.
   All dwelling houses, stores, buildings or other structures erected or to be
erected within the Town of Hammonton shall display house numbers assigned by
the Tax Assessor, or other town designee, as provided herein.
§ 104-3. Responsibility for placement.
   The owner, occupant or lessee of each and every house, store or other
building which now fronts or may front upon any public or private street within
the Town of Hammonton shall, at his/her own expense, within 90 days after the
adoption of this chapter, cause the assigned number of such house or building
to be permanently and conspicuously placed in accordance with the
specifications set forth herein.
§ 104-4. Specifications.
   A.   House or building numbers shall be:
      (1)   In Arabic numerals or letters.
      (2)   A minimum height of three inches.
      (3)   Mounted in a secure fashion on the front of the building so as to
be clearly visible from the road.
      (4)   Of a contrasting color to the background and arranged in such a
manner so as to be clearly legible from the street.
      (5)   At least 30 inches above ground level and so placed that trees,
shrubs and other obstructions do not block the line of sight of the numbers
from the street upon which the building fronts.
   B.   If the house or building is set back from the road in such a location
that the provisions of this chapter cannot be complied with, then the owner,
occupant or lessee shall provide a post, rod or other type of fixture of a
substantial nature with the number affixed thereon and so located on the
premises that the number shall be conspicuous and visible from the street upon
which the building property fronts.
§ 104-5. Assignment of numbers.
   House numbers shall be assigned by the Tax Assessor or other town designee.
Every owner, occupant or lessee of a building constructed or to be constructed
in the town shall apply to the Construction Code Official for an authorized
number.
§ 104-6. Enforcement.
   Upon the failure of an owner, occupant or lessee to ascertain and affix upon
any building to which this chapter applies the assigned number within three
months after the final adoption and publication, the town may enforce the
provision herein.
§ 104-7. Violations and penalties.
   Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be subject to one or more of the following: a fine of not more than
$1,000, imprisonment for a period not to exceed 90 days or a period of
community service not to exceed 90 days.
CHAPTER 109.
BUSINESS REGISTRATION
[HISTORY: Adopted by the Mayor and Council of the Town of Hammonton 2-23-2004
by Ord. No. 1-2004 amended in its entirety 6-26-2006 by Ord. No. 9-2006.
Subsequent amendments noted where applicable.]
   
§ 109-1.   Effective date.
   
§ 109-2.   Registration required.
   
§ 109-3.   Definitions.
   
§ 109-4.   Registration fee.
   
§ 109-5.   Registration forms.
   
§ 109-6.   Responsibilities of registered businesses.
   
§ 109-7.   Enforcement.
   
§ 109-8.   Violations and penalties.
§ 109-1. Effective date.
   This chapter shall take effect on July 18, 2006.
§ 109-2. Registration required.
   No person shall engage in or carry on any business in the Town of Hammonton
unless registered pursuant to this chapter. This chapter applies to all
existing businesses within the Town as well as any businesses commencing on or
after the effective date of this chapter.
§ 109-3. Definitions.
   As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
indicated:
   BUSINESS
   Includes:
   A.   Offering goods or services for sale or hire from a fixed location in
the Town;
   B.   The solicitation of business including offering goods or services for
sale or hire from a fixed location in the Town;
   C.   Any and all other professions, enterprises, trades, and vocations
except those defined in
Chapter 204 of the Town Code.
   PERSON
   Includes an individual, firm, cooperation, or any other organizational
entity or association.
§ 109-4. Registration fee.
   An initial registration fee of $35 shall be paid to the Town Clerk at the
time the applicant submits the registration form required by this chapter.
Thereafter, an annual registration fee of $35 shall be paid on or before August
1 of each year. If any person or entity, who is required to obtain a
registration pursuant to this chapter, does not register and pay the
registration fee by August 1 of the respective year, the Construction Official
will assess a late fee by August 15 of the respective year equal to 50% of the
registration fee which is late. All late fees assessed against a business must
be paid with the registration fee. In addition to any late fees, the business
must pay all registration fees for the previous years that were not paid and
applicable late charges. In any action to enforce this chapter, the
Construction Official shall include all late fees and past due registration fee
amounts in the summons and complaint filed against the business or other party.
§ 109-5. Registration forms.
   Registration shall be made on forms to be obtained from the Town Clerk.
Businesses in operation prior to the effective date of this chapter shall
register with the Town Clerk within 30 days after the effective date of this
chapter. The registration form submitted for each business must contain updated
emergency information with the names, addresses and telephone numbers for at
least two people to be contacted after business hours in reference to building
security, damage, or any occurrence that requires that access be gained to any
facility owned or operated by such business.
§ 109-6. Responsibilities of registered businesses.
   A.   Registration is mandatory whether or not the business is alarmed.
Registration information must be updated annually, and changes must be reported
immediately after they occur.
   B.   Every business registered pursuant to this chapter must maintain
evidence of its registration, as provided by the Town Clerk, on the registered
premises in a place where it may be readily seen at all times.
   C.   Failure to comply with the requirements of this section may result in a
penalty as provided in §
109-8 of this chapter.
§ 109-7. Enforcement.
   The Chief of Police, the Town Clerk, the Construction Official and any
police officer of the Town of Hammonton has the authority to examine all places
of business and all persons of the Town of Hammonton to determine if this
chapter has been complied with and to enforce the provisions of this chapter
against any persons found to be violating the same.
§ 109-8. Violations and penalties.
   Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter shall be subject
to a fine not exceeding $500 or to imprisonment not exceeding 30 days, or both.
CHAPTER 115.
CONSTRUCTION CODES, UNIFORM
[HISTORY: Adopted by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton 12-
27-1976 by Ord. No. 24-1976. Amendments noted where applicable.]
   
§ 115-1.   Enforcing agency established; Subcode officials designated.
   
§ 115-2.   Fees.
GENERAL REFERENCES
   Numbering of buildings — See
Ch. 104.
   Uniform Fire Code — See
Ch. 144, Art. II.
   Flood hazard areas — See
Ch. 147.
   Housing standards — See
Ch. 165.
   Land development — See
Ch. 175.
   Property maintenance — See
Ch. 211.
§ 115-1. Enforcing agency established; Subcode officials designated.
   A.   There is hereby established in the Town of Hammonton a State Uniform
Construction Code enforcing agency to be known as the "Building Department of
the Town of Hammonton," consisting of a Construction Official, Building Subcode
Official, Plumbing Subcode Official, Electrical Subcode Official, Fire
Protection Subcode Official and such other Subcode officials for such
additional sub codes as the Commissioner of the Department of Community
Affairs, State of New Jersey, shall hereafter adopt as part of the State
Uniform Construction Code. The Construction Official shall be the chief
administrator of the enforcing agency. The incumbent Building Inspector shall
be considered the Building Subcode Official for all purposes of this chapter,
with his/her present civil service status attaching to said position in lieu of
his/her present designation as Building Inspector. All other construction and
Subcode officials shall be such individuals as are appointed by the Mayor and
Common Council of the Town of Hammonton and shall be appointed for four-year
terms for so long a time as they are not classified under civil service. All
appointments made after the first such appointment shall be for four-year terms
commencing January 1 or for the unexpired portion of any term, as the case may
be.
   B.   Each official position created in Subsection A hereof shall be filled
by a person qualified for such position pursuant to P.L. 1975, c. 217, as
amended (N.J.S.A. 52:27D-119 et seq.), and N.J.A.C. 5:23, provided that, in
lieu of any particular Subcode official, an on-site inspection agency may be
retained by contract pursuant to N.J.A.C. 5:23. More than one such official
position may be held by the same person, provided that such person is qualified
pursuant to P.L. 1975, c. 217, and N.J.A.C. 5:23 to hold each such position.
   C.   The public shall have the right to do business with the enforcing
agency at one office location, except for emergencies and unforeseen or
unavoidable circumstances, which office location shall be the Town Hall,
Hammonton, New Jersey.
§ 115-2. Fees.
[Last amended 4-25-1994 by Ord. No. 10-1994 Editor's Note: Amended at time of
adoption of Code (see
Ch. 1, General Provisions, Art. I). ]
   The permit fees are established in the Town of Hammonton by ordinance
adopted from time to time and the applicable fees shall be paid prior to
issuance of said permit.
CHAPTER 119.
CURFEW
[HISTORY: Adopted by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton 6-
28-1993 by Ord. No. 14-1993. Amendments noted where applicable.]
   
§ 119-1.   Purpose.
   
§ 119-2.   Establishment.
   
§ 119-3.   Special curfew for Hammonton Lake Park.
   
§ 119-4.   Responsibility of parents or guardian.
   
§ 119-5.   Exceptions.
   
§ 119-6.   Violations and penalties.
GENERAL REFERENCES
   Sale of alcoholic beverages to minors — See
Ch. 75.
   Minors playing games at Carnival Grounds — See
Ch. 79, Art. II.
§ 119-1. Purpose.
   The Town of Hammonton desires to promote a safe and healthy environment for
its citizens. To accomplish this purpose, various recreational parks, historic
areas, thoroughfares, buildings and other public lands have been established
over the years for the enjoyment of all citizens of this town and the
surrounding communities. To ensure that all citizens can enjoy the use of
public lands, the following regulations have been established to promote peace
and order on the public lands.
§ 119-2. Establishment.
   It shall be unlawful for any child under the age of 18 years to be upon any
public lands or upon any place of public amusement or recreation between the
hours of 9:30 p.m. and 6:00 a.m., unless accompanied by the parent, guardian or
other adult person having the care, custody or control of said child.
§ 119-3. Special curfew for Hammonton Lake Park.
   It shall be unlawful for any child under the age of 18 years to be in the
Hammonton Lake Park at any time that the park is open, unless accompanied by
the parent, guardian or other adult person having the care, custody or control
of said child. Notice of this special restriction shall be posted on the
entrance to the park and at various other places, so as to advise the public of
this special curfew.
§ 119-4. Responsibility of parents or guardian.
   It shall be unlawful for the parent, guardian or any other person having the
care, custody or control of any child under the age of 18 years to permit such
child to be in any of the places as enumerated in this chapter during the
prohibited times and/or without the proper supervision.
§ 119-5. Exceptions.
Editor's Note: Added at time of adoption of Code (see
Ch. 1, General Provisions, Art. I). A juvenile on the street during the hours
referred to in the previous sections shall not be considered in violation of
this chapter under the following circumstances:
   A.   When accompanied by a parent or guardian of such juvenile.
   B.   When accompanied by an adult authorized by a parent of such juvenile to
take said parent's place in accompanying said juvenile for a designated period
of time and purpose within a specified area.
   C.   When exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech and the
right of such exercise, provided that the juvenile has in his/her possession a
written communication, signed by the juvenile and countersigned by a parent or
guardian of the juvenile with their home address and telephone number,
specifying when, where and in what manner the juvenile will be on the streets
at night during hours when this chapter is otherwise applicable to said
juvenile in the exercise of a First Amendment right specified in such
communication.
   D.   In case of reasonable necessity for the juvenile remaining on the
streets, provided that the juvenile has in his/her possession a written
communication, signed by the juvenile and countersigned by a parent or guardian
of the juvenile with their home address and telephone number, setting forth the
facts establishing the reasonable necessity relating to specified streets at a
designated time for a described purpose including points of origin and
destination.
   E.   When the juvenile is on the sidewalk or property where the juvenile
resides or on either side of or across the street from the place where the
juveniles resides and the adult owner or resident of that property has given
permission for the juvenile to be there.
   F.   When returning home from and within one hour after the termination of a
school- or town-sponsored activity or an activity of a religious or other
voluntary association, provided that the juvenile has in his/her possession a
written communication, signed by the juvenile and countersigned by a parent or
guardian of the juvenile with their home address and telephone number,
indicating the place and probable time of termination of the activity.
   G.   When the juvenile is, with parental consent, in a motor vehicle. This
contemplates normal travel. It is the intention of this provision to clearly
exempt bona fide interstate movements along major routes through the Town of
Hammonton and interstate travel beginning or ending in the Town of Hammonton.
   H.   When engaged in or traveling to or from a place of employment.
   I.   When engaged in an errand involving a medical emergency.
§ 119-6. Violations and penalties.
   Each and every person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be
subject, upon conviction thereof, to one or more of the following: a fine of
not more than $1,000, imprisonment for a period not to exceed 90 days or a
period of community service not to exceed 90 days, in the discretion of the
Judge before whom said conviction shall be had.
CHAPTER 122
DEALERS IN PRECIOUS METALS, GEMS AND SECONDHAND GOODS
   §
122-1.   Purpose and intent.
   §
122-2.   Definitions.
   §
122-3.   Registration and issuance of license.
   §
122-4.   License fees; non-transferability.
   §
122-5.   Revocation of license.
   §
122-6.   Dealers' responsibilities, requirements and record keeping.
   §
122-7.   Non-applicability.
   §
122-8.   Purchases from minors.
   §
122-9.   Violations and penalties.
[HISTORY: Adopted 8-26-2013 by Ord. No. 015-2013]
§ 122-1.   Purpose and intent.
   The purpose and intent of this chapter is to assist law enforcement
officials and victims of crime in recovering stolen precious metals, gems,
gemstones and/or other articles by requiring minimum reporting, maintenance and
distribution criteria for secondhand and transient dealers.
   No person shall use, exercise or carry on the business, trade or occupation
of buying scrap gold, old gold, silver, jewelry, home electronics/audio and
visual equipment, musical instruments, telephones and telephonic equipment,
scales, computers, computer hardware and software, typewriters, word
processors, scanners, sporting goods of all kinds, antiques, platinum, all
other precious metals, tools of all kinds, televisions, DVRs, GPS, camcorders,
car stereos, gift cards, furniture, clothing or other valuable articles,
hereinafter referred to as "secondhand goods or articles," or being a
secondhand dealer within the Town of Hammonton without having first obtained a
license from the Town of Hammonton Police as hereinafter provided.
   The provisions of the preamble of Ord. No. 015-2013 are incorporated by
reference in this chapter.
§ 122-2.   Definitions.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and
their derivations shall have the meanings ascribed herein. Words used in the
present tense shall include the future, words in the plural number shall
include the singular number and words in the singular number shall include the
plural number. The word "shall" is always mandatory and not merely directory.
   A.   ACCEPTABLE IDENTIFICATION: Acceptable forms of identification include:
a current valid New Jersey Driver's License or Identification Card, a current
valid photo driver's license issued by another US state, a valid United States
Passport, or other verifiable US Government issued identification.
   B.   ARTICLE: Any article of merchandise, including any portion of such
article, whether a distinct part thereof or not, including every part thereof
whether separable or not, and also including material for manufacture. And as
so defined in N.J.S.A. 51:6-1.
   C.   CHIEF OF POLICE: the Chief of Police of the Town of Hammonton or his
designee/ representative.
   D.   DATABASE: A computerized internet capable database with hardware and
software compliant to that set by the Chief of Police.
   E.   DEALER: Any person, partnership, corporation, or other entity, whether
permanent or itinerant, who on one or more occasions (through any means) buys
or sells or otherwise exchanges or trades secondhand gold, silver, precious
metals, gems, or jewelry, and includes anyone advertising the purchase or sale
of any of the aforementioned items.
   F.   DESIGNATED VENDOR: A person or entity who is appointed or designated by
the Chief of Police who is authorized to collect and maintain precious metal
transaction information, or other purchase information as defined herein, for
the Town of Hammonton.
   G.   GIFT CARD: is a restricted monetary equivalent or scrip that is issued
by retailers or banks to be used as an alternative to a non-monetary gift.
   H.   ITINERANT BUSINESS: Any business conducted intermittently within the
Town of Hammonton or at varying locations.
   I.   PERSON: Any individual natural person, partnership, joint venture,
business, society, associate, club, trustee, trust, corporation, or
unincorporated group, or an officer, agent, employee, servant, factor or any
form of personal representative of any thereof, in any capacity, acting for
self or on behalf of another.
   J.   PRECIOUS METALS: comprised of gold, silver, sterling, platinum and/or
their alloys as defined in N.J.S.A. 51:5-1 et seq., N.J.S.A. 51:6-1 et seq.
and/or N.J.S.A. 51:6A-1 et seq.; gems, gemstones, coins and all forms of
jewelry herein contained.
   K.   PUBLIC: Individuals and retail sellers, not to include wholesale
transactions or transactions between other merchants.
   L.   PURCHASE: The exchange of money and the exchange, deposit, pledge,
sale, conveyance or trade of any tangible or intangible article.
   M.   REPORTABLE TRANSACTION: Every transaction conducted by a dealer in
which precious metals, or other tangible property, are purchased or exchanged
from or with the public.
   N.   SECONDHAND GOODS: Any article previously sold, acquired, exchanged,
conveyed, traded or otherwise formerly owned, including but not limited to
scrap gold, old gold, silver, jewelry, home electronics/audio and visual
equipment, telephones and telephonic equipment, scales, computers, computer
hardware and software, coins, electronic tablets, cameras, scanners, sporting
goods of all kinds, antiques, platinum, all other precious metals, tools of all
kinds, televisions, DVRs, GPS, camcorders, car stereos, gift cards, furniture,
clothing or other valuable articles.
   O.   TRANSIENT BUYER: A dealer who has not been in any retail business
continuously for at least six months at any address in the municipality where
the dealer is required to register or who intends to close out or discontinue
all retail business in the Town of Hammonton within six months. Or as so
defined in N.J.S.A. 51:6A-5 and N.J.A.C. 13:47C-1.1. Vendors doing business
during a community event sponsored/sanctioned by the Town of Hammonton shall
not be considered a transient buyer.
§ 122-3.   Registration and issuance of license.
   Each dealer conducting business within the jurisdiction of the Town of
Hammonton shall first register with the Chief of Police, or his designee, who
shall fingerprint the applicant and institute such an investigation of the
applicant's moral character and business responsibility as he deems necessary
for the protection of the public welfare. In the event that the dealer is a
business entity other than a sole proprietorship, the officers in a corporation
or the partners in a partnership (or limited partnership) shall be deemed to be
the applicant(s) who shall be fingerprinted and investigated in accordance with
this section. Upon completion of the investigation, the Chief of Police shall
either issue or deny the license based upon the results of his investigation.
Upon issuance of the license, the applicant shall be given a copy of this
chapter.
   A dealer of precious metals, gems or gemstones or second hand goods shall,
prior to buying, attempting to buy or offering to buy, register with the Chief
of Police, providing the following information on an application prescribed by
the Police Department:
      (1)   Name and address of dealer;
      (2)   Address from which dealer shall conduct business;
      (3)   Copy of valid zoning and/or construction permits from the Town of
Hammonton;
      (4)   Proof that dealer has obtained computer equipment and software
required in § 122-6B., for purposes of reporting all transaction data in
electronic format to the Hammonton Police Department.
§ 122-4.   License fees; non-transferability.
   A.   Each application for a Dealer of Secondhand Goods License shall be
accompanied by an annual fee of $300 payable to the Town of Hammonton at the
Town Clerk's Office by January 10th of each year.
   B.   A license issued under the provisions of this chapter shall not be
transferable and shall terminate on December 31st of the year in which said
license is issued.
§ 122-5.   Revocation of license.
   A.   Licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter may be revoked by
the Chief of Police after a hearing upon notice to the applicant for any of the
following causes:
      (1)   Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement contained in the
application for license;
      (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in the course of
carrying on the business of purchasing secondhand precious metals, gems, and
jewelry;
      (3)   Any violation of this chapter;
      (4)   Conviction of any crime or disorderly persons offense involving
moral turpitude; and
      (5)   Conducting the business of soliciting or canvassing in an unlawful
manner or in such a manner as to constitute a breach of the peace or to
constitute a menace to the health, safety, or general welfare of the public.
   B.   Notice of the hearing for revocation of a license shall be given in
writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of complaint and the time and
place of hearing. Such notice shall be mailed, postage prepaid, to the licensee
at his last known address at least five days prior to the date set for the
hearing.
§ 122-6.   Dealers' responsibilities, requirements and record keeping.
   Every dealer within the Town of Hammonton shall, upon the purchase of any
precious metals, or second hand goods from the public, be required to do as
follows:
   A.   Record on a numbered receipt the name, address and telephone number of
the purchaser; the name, address and telephone number of the seller or sellers;
the time and date of the transaction; the net weight in terms of pounds Troy,
pennyweight (Troy) or kilograms/grams of the precious metals; fineness in terms
of karats for gold, and sterling or coin for silver, in accordance with
N.J.S.A. 51:5-1 et seq. and N.J.S.A. 51:6-1 et seq. This information is to be
documented through use of an electronic database software system as designated
by the Chief of Police. These records shall be subject to the inspection of any
authorized police officer of the Town of Hammonton.
   B.   Through the use of applicably required computer equipment, and using
the electronic format approved by the Chief of Police, enter all transactions
into the electronic database within 48 hours from the date of purchase. The
information entered will contain the information in § 122-6A. above, plus the
following:
      (1)   A physical description of the seller;
      (2)   The receipt number;
      (3)    A full description of the item or items purchased, including but
not limited to, marks, numbers, dates, sizes, shapes, initials, monograms and
serial numbers;
      (4)    The price paid for the item;
      (5)   The form must be signed by the seller;
      (6)   The form must be legibly initialed by the clerk or the dealer who
made the transaction so as to readily identify that individual;
      (7)   A color photograph or color image of the seller's presented
identification;
      (8)   A color photograph or color image of all items sold. When
photographing or imaging all items must be positioned in a manner that makes
them readily and easily identifiable;
      (9)   Items should not be grouped together when photographing or imaging;
each item will have its own color photograph or color image.
   C.   The precious metals are to be made available for inspection by the
Chief of Police of the Town of Hammonton and to any other federal, state,
county or other law enforcement entity for a period of five days from the date
the information required above is received by the Chief of Police on the
approved form. The precious metals shall remain in the same condition as when
purchased and shall not be changed, modified, melted or disposed of by the
purchaser until the five-day period has expired. During this five-day period,
the precious metals shall be placed in public view at the purchaser's place of
business. If the property is such that it would create a hardship on the dealer
by holding the precious metals for such period, the dealer may present the
property to the Chief of Police in order that it may be photographed and, if
deemed necessary by the Chief of Police, an investigation be implemented. The
Chief of Police has the authority to grant the dealer a waiver of the
requirement under this section.
   D.   In the event a database failure, or dealer's computer equipment
malfunction, all transaction information is required to be submitted on paper
forms approved by the Chief of Police. In the event that paper forms are used,
the dealer is responsible to enter all transaction information into the
database as soon as possible upon the dealer's equipment being repaired or
replaced, or the database coming back into service. Failure by the dealer to
properly maintain computer equipment in a reasonable fashion, or failure by the
dealer to replace faulty computer equipment, may result in the dealer being
cited for a violation of the chapter and subsequently being subject to the
penalties for doing so.
   E.   Dealer payment to sellers in cash shall be limited to two transactions
during a seven day period for the same seller. The seven day period will
commence on the day of the first transaction and end seven days after the
transaction, i.e. if transaction #1 occurs on Monday the seven day period ends
on Sunday. Furthermore, no cash payments shall be made to the same sellers who
make more than five transactions in any given 30 day period. Sellers making
transactions over the number of prescribed weekly and monthly periods will be
paid by the dealer by means of a bank check drawn from the dealer's business
account.
   F.   It shall be the requisite duty of every dealer, and of every person in
the dealer's employ, to admit to the premises during business hours any member
of the Hammonton Police Department to examine any database, book, ledger, or
any other record on the premises relating to the purchase of precious metals
from the public, as well as the articles purchased or received, and to take
possession of any article known by the police officer or official to be missing
or to have been stolen, or where the officer or official has probable cause to
believe the article is missing or stolen.
§ 122-7.   Non-applicability.
   This chapter shall not apply to purchases made by jewelers or other dealers
from wholesalers or other suppliers, but shall only apply to those purchases
made from the public or other retail purchases. The dealer shall keep records
of all wholesale purchases for a period of six months from the date of such
purchase, which records shall be opened to investigation by the Town of
Hammonton Police Department.
§ 122-8.   Purchases from minors.
   No dealer within the Town of Hammonton shall purchase any precious metals
from any person under the age of 18 years.
§ 122-9.   Violations and penalties.
   Violation of any provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof,
be punished by a minimum fine of $100 or a maximum of $2,000 or by imprisonment
for a term not exceeding 90 days or by a period of community service not
exceeding 90 days and a 10 day suspension of its license. Each and every
violation shall be considered a separate violation. Every day that a violation
continues shall be a separate violation. Each violation shall result in an
additional ten day suspension. Any person who is convicted of violating the
provisions of this chapter within one year of the date of a previous violation
and who was fined for the previous violation may be sentenced by the Court to
an additional fine as a repeat offender. The additional fine imposed as a
repeat offender shall not be less than the minimum or exceed the maximum fine
provided herein, and same shall be calculated separately from the fine imposed
for the violation of this chapter.
CHAPTER 125.
DRUG-FREE ZONES
[HISTORY: Adopted by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton as
indicated in article histories. Amendments noted where applicable.]
ARTICLE I.
Drug-Free School Zones
   
§ 125-1.   Legislative authority; purpose.
   
§ 125-2.   Map to be official finding.
   
§ 125-3.   Continuation of map; additions and deletions.
   
§ 125-4.   Notification of location and boundary changes.
   
§ 125-5.   Copy of map on file; availability.
   
§ 125-6.   Additional findings.
GENERAL REFERENCES
   Under the influence of drugs — See
Ch. 202.
Article I.
Drug-Free School Zones
[Adopted 9-12-1988 by Ord. No. 18-1988]
§ 125-1. Legislative authority; purpose.
   It is deemed to be in the public interest that the Town of Hammonton enact
an ordinance pursuant to N.J.S.A. 2C:35-7, as amended, to provide for Drug-Free
School Zones within the Town of Hammonton in order to assist in the prosecution
of drug offenses in and near said facilities in order to promote the general
health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the Town of Hammonton and
especially the school children therein.
§ 125-2. Map to be official finding.
[Amended 9-22-2008 by Ord. No. 29-2008]
   A.   In accordance with and pursuant to the authority of P.L. 1988, c. 44
(N.J.S.A. 2C:35-7), the Drug-Free School Zone Map as updated by Adams, Rehmann
and Heggan, Town Engineers, in August 2008, is hereby approved and adopted as
an official finding and record of the location and areas within the
municipality of property which is used, owned by or leased to any public or
private school within 1,000 feet of such school property (including but not
limited to Hammonton School Board, Hammonton High School, Hammonton Middle
School, Hammonton Elementary School, St. Joseph High School, St. Joseph
Elementary School, St. Joseph Athletic Field).
   B.   In accordance with and pursuant to the authority of P.L. 1988, c. 44
(N.J.S.A. 2C:35-7), the Drug-Free School Zone Map as updated by Adams, Rehmann
and Heggan, Town Engineers, in August 2008, is hereby approved and adopted as
an official finding and record of the location and areas within the
municipality of property which is used, owned by or leased to any Library,
museum, or recreational facility within 500 feet of such property (including
but not limited to Atlantic County Library, Hammonton Lake Park, Boyer Avenue
Recreation Fields and the Wharton State Forrest).
§ 125-3. Continuation of map; additions and deletions.
[Amended 9-22-2008 by Ord. No. 29-2008]
   The Drug-Free School Zone Map approved and adopted pursuant to §
125-1 of this article shall continue to constitute an official finding and
record as to the location and boundaries of areas as described in §
125-2A and B until such time, if any, that this article shall be amended to
reflect any additions or deletions with respect to the location and boundaries
of Drug-Free School Zones.
§ 125-4. Notification of location and boundary changes.
[Amended 9-22-2008 by Ord. No. 29-2008]
   Those designated in Drug-Free Zones as described in §
125-2A and B are hereby directed and shall have the continuing obligation to
promptly notify the Municipal Engineer and the Municipal Solicitor of any
changes or contemplated changes in the location and boundaries.
§ 125-5. Copy of map on file; availability.
   The Clerk/Administrator of the municipality is hereby directed to receive
and to keep on file the original of the map approved and adopted pursuant to §
125-1 of this article and to provide at a reasonable cost a true copy thereof
to any person, agency or court which may from time to time request such a copy,
along with a certification that such copy is a true copy of the map approved
and adopted herein and kept on file. It is hereby further directed that a true
copy of such map and of this article shall be provided without cost to the
County Clerk and to the office of the Atlantic County Prosecutor.
§ 125-6. Additional findings.
[Amended 9-22-2008 by Ord. No. 29-2008]
   A.   It is understood that the map approved and adopted pursuant to §
125-1 of this article was prepared and is intended to be used as evidence in
prosecution arising under the criminal laws of this state and that, pursuant to
state law, such map shall constitute prima facie evidence of locations as
described in §
125-2A and B.
   B.   Pursuant to the provisions of P.L. 1988, c. 44 (N.J.S.A. 2C:35-7), a
prosecutor is not precluded from introducing or relying upon any other evidence
or testimony to establish a violation of the offense defined in that statute,
including use of map or diagram other than the one approved and adopted
pursuant to §
125-1 of this article. The failure of the map approved herein to depict the
location and boundaries of any property which is, in fact, used as described in
§
125-2A and B, whether the absence of such depiction is the result of
inadvertent omission or the result of any changes in the location and
boundaries of such property which have not yet been incorporated into a revised
approved map, shall not be deemed to be an official finding and record that
such property is not owned by those described in §
125-2A and B.
   C.   All of the requirements set forth in P.L. 1988, c. 44 (N.J.S.A. 2C:35-
7), concerning the preparation, approval and adoption of a Drug-Free School
Zone Map have been complied with.
CHAPTER 134.
FEES
[HISTORY: Adopted by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton as
indicated in article histories. Amendments noted where applicable.]
ARTICLE I.
Human Waste in Fertilization of Crops
   
§ 134-1.   Purpose.
   
§ 134-2.   Annual fee.
   
§ 134-3.   Collection of fee; penalty; copy of manifests.
   
§ 134-4.   Use of collected fees.
   
§ 134-5.   Construal of provisions.
ARTICLE II.
Vital Statistics Records
   
§ 134-6.   Rate schedule.
Article I.
Human Waste in Fertilization of Crops
[Adopted 6-21-1999 by Ord. No. 14-1999]
§ 134-1. Purpose.
   The purpose of this article is to establish a fee to those enterprises which
employ the use of human waste for the purpose of fertilization of crops or as a
raw material in any percent by weight or volume. It has been found and
determined that the use of said material, its application and storage onto or
into the land has detrimental effects to the citizenship of the Town of
Hammonton, including but not limited to the degradation of roadways, emissions
of odors and exposure of certain types of contamination which necessitates
certain prophylactic measures.
§ 134-2. Annual fee.
   An annual fee shall be imposed at a rate of $0.04 per gallon (calculated at
$5.71 per ton) on all materials which are comprised of human waste material
accepted by any facility existing within the Town of Hammonton.
§ 134-3. Collection of fee; penalty; copy of manifests.
   The fee shall be collected on a quarterly basis and shall be due on the 13th
day after the end of each quarter. The quarter shall begin on the first of the
month following the enactment of this article. Any fee which becomes due and is
not paid within the prescribed time shall be subject to an interest penalty of
5% per month on any part thereof which is not paid. In addition to the payment,
the person and/or firm responsible for payment of the fee shall provide a copy
of all manifests upon which the fee is due and payable.
§ 134-4. Use of collected fees.
   All sums collected as a result of this article shall be used by the Town of
Hammonton for the following purposes:
   A.   To offset a reduction in tax revenue due to the devaluation of land
values.
   B.   To hire professionals and purchase equipment to perform any and all
tests to varying media for the study of the effects of human waste(s) applied
and stored into and onto the land both on and off site.
   C.   To improve or modify roadways which are effected by the importation of
human waste products.
   D.   To establish and award grants/loans to mitigate the detrimental effects
of the use/application of human waste products.
§ 134-5. Construal of provisions.
   This article when adopted is not intended in any circumstance to limit,
modify or prescribe the manner in which human waste materials are used,
applied, modified, processed or stored.
Article II.
Vital Statistics Records
[Adopted 7-26-2004 by Ord. No. 16-2004]
§ 134-6. Rate schedule.
   The following rate schedule for acquiring certificates and licenses from the
Registrar of Vital Statistics in the Town of Hammonton shall apply:
   A.   Certified copies of certificates of birth, death, marriage, domestic
partnership and civil union:
[Amended 4-23-2007 by Ord. No. 8-2007; 4-18-2011 by Ord. No. 8-2011]
      (1)   First page: $20;
      (2)   Each additional page of the same record: $10.
   B.   Processing of correction forms: $10 each.
CHAPTER 137.
FENCES AND BARRIERS
[HISTORY: Adopted by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton as
indicated in article histories. Amendments noted where applicable.]
ARTICLE I.
Construction and Maintenance
   
§ 137-1.   Purpose; legislative authority.
   
§ 137-2.   Permit required; application requirements.
   
§ 137-3.   Construction standards.
   
§ 137-4.   Maintenance of fences.
   
§ 137-5.   Complaints; notice of violation.
   
§ 137-6.   Hearing; failure to remove nonconforming fence.
   
§ 137-7.   Violations and penalties.
ARTICLE II.
Commercial and Industrial Zones
   
§ 137-8.   Definitions.
   
§ 137-9.   Setback required.
   
§ 137-10.   Fences permitted in industrial zones.
   
§ 137-11.   Violations and penalties.
GENERAL REFERENCES
   Satellite earth stations — See
Ch. 220.
Article I.
Construction and Maintenance
[Adopted 9-13-1971 by Ord. No. 10-1971 as Art. I of Ch. 94 of the 1971 Code;
amended in its entirety 11-24-2008 by Ord. No. 37-2008]
§ 137-1. Purpose; legislative authority.
   It is hereby determined to be against the health, safely and general welfare
of the citizens of the Town of Hammonton and deleterious to property values and
an impediment to proper development of any area of the Town of Hammonton for
unsightly, oversized or improperly constructed fences, as hereinafter defined,
to be built or maintained within the limits of the Town of Hammonton, subject
to those exceptions hereinafter set forth, and this article is enacted pursuant
to N.J.S.A. 40:48-1 under the general regulatory powers of the Town of
Hammonton.
§ 137-2. Permit required; application requirements.
   A.   Before the erection of any fence, an application for zoning approval
must be submitted to the Administration Officer and the required fee paid. Said
fee shall be in addition to any fees required for a construction permit.
   B.   Such application must include a reasonably accurate representation of
the property showing the current conditions, including but not limited to the
following: all existing building footprints and dimensions; any existing
fences; property layout including dimensions; other improvements and the
proposed location of any proposed fences, including dimensions of placement on
property and distance(s) to property line(s).
   C.   Such application must include the owner's name, address of the
property, block and lot of the property, the description and specifications of
the fence, including the size, height, dimensions, material and size of
openings.
§ 137-3. Construction standards.
   A.   All fences erected in the Town of Hammonton shall be subject to the
following:
      (1)   All fences must be erected entirely upon the private property of
the person constructing or causing the construction of the fence;
      (2)   All fences must be constructed in accordance with the
manufacturer's specifications, within reasonable building standards and
approved by the Construction Official;
      (3)   All fences shall be erected with the face or finished side of the
fence facing toward adjacent properties. The structural side of the fence shall
face toward the interior of the subject property on which the fence has been
installed;
      (4)   Fence gates shall have a latch and they shall not open onto a
sidewalk, street or adjacent property;
      (5)   Fences shall be erected in a manner as to permit the flow of
natural drainage and shall not cause surface water to be blocked or dammed;
      (6)   Any screening or buffering consisting of landscaping plant
materials shall be planted no closer than 50% of the anticipated mature growth
width of such screening or buffering, but in no event closer than four feet
from any property line. Additionally, any screening or buffering consisting of
landscaping plant materials shall not encroach over a sidewalk, sight triangle
easement, public right-of-way or beyond a private property line. Except as
otherwise stated, all fences, screening or buffering consisting of landscaped
plant materials shall be subject to the requirements and conditions of this
chapter;
      (7)   No fence shall be erected so as to encroach upon a public right-of-
way or site triangle;
      (8)   The use of barbed wire or other similar-type fencing is prohibited
unless otherwise stated in the ordinances of the Town of Hammonton;
      (9)   Utility poles, lolly columns, scrap materials, individually
installed elements or columns and other nontraditional fence materials shall
not be permitted to be used for construction of any fence within the Town of
Hammonton. All proposed fence materials are subject to the review, approval and
discretion of the Construction Code Official of the Town of Hammonton;
      (10)   No fence shall be constructed and/or maintained so as to deny
access to public utilities by an authorized person;
      (11)   Fences in residential properties.
         (a)   Any fence installed on a property within a residential zoning
district, or on a property which contains a residential use, shall not exceed
three feet in height installed within a front yard setback area, or along a
front property line.
         (b)   Any fence installed on a property within a residential zoning
district, or on a property which contains a residential use, shall not exceed
three feet in height installed within a side yard setback area, or along a side
property line. The fence height may increase to six feet in height at the point
of 75% of the length of the side building wall, measured from the front of the
house. The fence may continue at a height of six feet along the remainder of
the side property line to a point where the fence meets the rear yard area or
rear property line.
         (c)   Any fence installed on a property within a residential zoning
district, or on a property which contains a residential use, shall not exceed
six feet in height installed within a rear yard setback area or along a rear
property line; and
      (12)   Any fence installed on a property within a nonresidential zoning
district, or on a property which contains a nonresidential use property, or a
mixed use, shall not exceed six feet.
   B.   Should any property be a corner property which has frontage on two
streets, the rear building line, for the purpose of this article, shall be
interpreted to mean that point where the property line of any corner property
abuts the rear building line of any adjacent property, and the owner of said
corner property shall not be entitled to construct any fence that exceeds three
feet in height from the average ground grade in any point closer to the nearest
roadway with which said line intersects than the rear building line of all
adjacent properties.
   C.   These fence regulations shall not apply to the erection of an open-wire
fence within a publicly owned park, playground or school premises if the need
for such a fence for such uses as athletic fields and the like are demonstrated
to and approved by the Building Construction Officer.
§ 137-4. Maintenance of fences.
   A.   Fences must be maintained by the owner and kept in alignment and shall
be maintained in a safe, sound and upright condition and in accordance with the
approved plan (if required) on file with the Building Construction Officer.
   B.   All fences shall be kept in a clean, trash-free manner, without weeds.
Manicured landscaping plant materials shall be permitted.
   C.   The fence, its posts, and the chain link (if applicable) shall not be
permitted to be maintained in a condition where deterioration or rust is
exposed to public view.
   D.   In the event of a screening or buffering consisting of landscaped plant
materials, the landscaping plant materials shall be property trimmed,
maintained and irrigated. The property owner is responsible for the maintenance
of the manicured landscaping plant materials as set forth herein and shall at
all times be responsible for the continued upkeep, maintenance, trimming,
removal of debris and trash, replanting, if necessary, and to take those steps
necessary to insure that the manicured landscaping plant material, screening or
buffering shall be maintained in a safe and sightly condition.
§ 137-5. Complaints; notice of violation.
   Upon a complaint being filed by the Building Inspector or any citizen
complaining of a fence being constructed in violation of this article and upon
the Board of Adjustment being satisfied that said complaint is made for good
cause, the Secretary of the Board of Adjustment shall notify the owner, as
shown by the records of the Board of Tax Assessors of the Town of Hammonton, of
the premises upon which said fence is being or has been constructed, by
certified mail, that failure on the owner's part to request a hearing or have
said nonconforming fence removed will result in a complaint being made against
the owner in the Hammonton Municipal Court for violation of this article. Said
notice shall give the owner 10 days to remove the fence or request a hearing
before the Board of Adjustment to show cause why said fence should not be
removed.
§ 137-6. Hearing; failure to remove nonconforming fence.
   The owner, upon receipt of the notice set forth by §
137-5 above, may demand a hearing before the Board of Adjustment, notifying the
Secretary of the Board of Adjustment of his/her desire to have said hearing at
any time before the expiration of the ten-day period. Failure to have a
nonconforming fence removed after the end of the ten-day period, where no
request for a hearing is made, or after a hearing is held and a determination
is made by the Board of Adjustment that said fence is in violation of this
article, shall result in a complaint being filed before the Hammonton Municipal
Court for a violation of this article. Nothing in this article shall be
construed as prohibiting any fence required by any other ordinance of the Town
of Hammonton to be constructed or maintained, and such fences shall not be
subject to this article. Each day that a fence remains in violation of this
article after said determination after a hearing, or the passage of the
original ten-day period without a request for a hearing, shall be a separate
violation of this article.
§ 137-7. Violations and penalties.
   Any person violating the provisions of this article shall be subject to one
or more of the following: a fine of not more than $1,000, imprisonment for a
period not to exceed 90 days or a period of community service not to exceed 90
days.
Article II.
Commercial and Industrial Zones
[Adopted 9-13-1971 by Ord. No. 10-1971 as Art. II of Ch. 94 of the 1971 Code]
§ 137-8. Definitions.
   As used in this article, the following terms shall have the meanings
indicated:
   BARRIER
   Any structure of any kind which has the effect of limiting, blocking or
otherwise impairing or affecting the view of the public traffic or a commercial
enterprise.
   COMMERCIAL ZONE
   Any area of the Town of Hammonton which is zoned commercial by and through
Chapter 175, Land Development.
§ 137-9. Setback required.
   No individual, partnership, corporation or other entity or group of
individuals shall erect or maintain in any commercial zone of the Town of
Hammonton any fence or other barrier of any kind or description which shall be
closer at any point to the nearest existing roadway than that point where
buildings are required to be set back from said road by municipal ordinance or
state law, or closer at any point to the nearest existing roadway than the
existing building line is to said road, whichever point is farther from said
existing roadway.
§ 137-10. Fences permitted in industrial zones.
[Added 6-24-1974 by Ord. No. 14-1974]
   Any property owner in the Town of Hammonton who has a structure erected or
is in the process of erecting a structure on premises situate in an Industrial
M1, Industrial M2 or Industrial M3 Zone, as defined in
Chapter 175, Land Development, shall be permitted to erect a fence on said
premises from the front building line of the structure, on a course not closer
to the roadway upon which said structure fronts at any point than said front
building line, to the side property line, and shall be permitted to construct a
fence along both side property lines and the rear property line to the rear of
the aforementioned front building line, which fence shall not exceed six feet
in height from average ground grade at any point. The height restrictions of §
137-2, insofar as such conflict with this section, are hereby repealed to the
extent of said inconsistency. All other provisions of Article I of this chapter
not inconsistent with this section are hereby retained in full force and
effect. Editor's Note: Former § 94-11, Removal of noncom plying fences or
barriers, which immediately followed this section, was deleted at time of
adoption of Code (see
Ch. 1, General Provisions, Art. I).
§ 137-11. Violations and penalties.
   Any individual who erects or maintains a fence or other barrier in violation
of the provisions of this article shall be subject to one or more of the
following: a fine of not more than $1,000, imprisonment for a period not to
exceed 90 days or a period of community service not to exceed 90 days for every
day that said fence is in existence in violation of the provisions of this
article. Said fines may be imposed in addition to the right of the Building
Inspector of the Town of Hammonton to enter upon and remove said fence or other
barrier.
CHAPTER 141.
FIREARMS
[HISTORY: Adopted by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton 9-
13-1971 by Ord. No. 10-1971 as Ch. 96 of the 1971 Code; amended in its entirety
at time of adoption of Code (see Ch. 1, General Provisions, Art. I). Amendments
noted where applicable.]
   
§ 141-1.   Discharge of firearms restricted.
   
§ 141-2.   Exceptions.
   
§ 141-3.   Violations and penalties.
GENERAL REFERENCES
   Firearms in parks — See
Ch. 200, §
200-4.
§ 141-1. Discharge of firearms restricted.
   The discharge of any firearms, bow and arrow, crossbow, slingshot, air gun,
spring gun, gas gun or any other device which impels a projectile through the
use of force is prohibited in the Town of Hammonton.
§ 141-2. Exceptions.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to:
   A.   Any duly appointed law officer in the course of his or her official
duty.
   B.   The use of firearms when necessary for the preservation of human life.
   C.   The use of firearms when hunting in conformity with the applicable laws
and regulations of the State of New Jersey.
   D.   Use of a firearm on a licensed pistol, rifle or firearm range and under
the supervision of the Police Department.
§ 141-3. Violations and penalties.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine not exceeding $1,000, a
term of imprisonment not exceeding 90 days or a period of community service not
exceeding 90 days, or any combination thereof.
CHAPTER 144.
FIRE PREVENTION
[HISTORY: Adopted by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton as
indicated in article histories. Amendments noted where applicable.]
ARTICLE I.
(Reserved)
   
§ 144-1.   (Reserved)
   
§ 144-2.   (Reserved)
   
§ 144-3.   (Reserved)
   
§ 144-4.   (Reserved)
   
§ 144-5.   (Reserved)
   
§ 144-6.   (Reserved)
   
§ 144-7.   (Reserved)
   
§ 144-8.   (Reserved)
ARTICLE II.
Uniform Fire Code
   
§ 144-9.   Adoption of standards.
   
§ 144-10.   Local enforcement.
   
§ 144-11.   Agency designation and duties.
   
§ 144-12.   Organization of Bureau of Fire Prevention.
   
§ 144-13.   Appointments; terms; removal from office.
   
§ 144-14.   Life-hazard uses.
   
§ 144-15.   Non-life-hazard uses: inspection fee schedule.
   
§ 144-16.   Permits.
   
§ 144-17.   Board of Appeals.
   
§ 144-18.   Enforcement; violations and penalties.
GENERAL REFERENCES
   Fire Department — See
Ch. 25.
   Fire Prevention Bureau — See
Ch. 28.
   Alarm systems — See
Ch. 74.
   Uniform construction codes — See
Ch. 115.
   Fire insurance claims — See
Ch. 168, Art. I.
   Extinguishing fires in picnic areas — See
Ch. 200, §
220-4.
Article I.
(Reserved)
Editor's Note: Former Art. I, Hazardous Conditions, adopted 9-13-1971 by Ord.
No. 10-1971 as; 24-6 through 24-10 and 24-16 through 24-19 of the 1971 Code, as
amended 4-23-2001 by Ord. No. 15-2001, was repealed 3-25-2002 by Ord. No. 9-
2002.
§ 144-1. (Reserved)
§ 144-2. (Reserved)
§ 144-3. (Reserved)
§ 144-4. (Reserved)
§ 144-5. (Reserved)
§ 144-6. (Reserved)
§ 144-7. (Reserved)
§ 144-8. (Reserved)
Article II.
Uniform Fire Code
[Adopted 4-14-1986 by Ord. No. 8-1986; amended in its entirety 8-28-1989 by
Ord. No. 25-1989]
§ 144-9. Adoption of standards.
[Amended 3-25-2002 by Ord. No. 9-2002]
   The Uniform Fire Safety Act (N.J.S.A. 52:27D-192 et seq.) was enacted for
the purpose of establishing a system for the enforcement of minimum fire safety
standards throughout the State of New Jersey. The Uniform Fire Safety Act
authorizes municipalities to provide for local enforcement and to establish
local enforcement agencies for that purpose. The Town of Hammonton has agreed
to that plan, which is set forth herein, for the administration and enforcement
of the Uniform Fire Code (N.J.A.C. 5.70-1.1 et seq.), pursuant to the Uniform
Fire Safety Act.
§ 144-10. Local enforcement.
   Pursuant to N.J.S.A. 52:27D-202, the New Jersey Uniform Fire Code shall be
locally enforced in the Town of Hammonton.
§ 144-11. Agency designation and duties.
   The local enforcing agency shall:
   A.   Be the Bureau of Fire Prevention, which is hereby created in the
Hammonton Fire Department.
[Amended 3-8-1993 by Ord. No. 5-1993]
   B.   Enforce the New Jersey Uniform Fire Code in all buildings, structures
and premises within the established boundaries of the Town of Hammonton, other
than owner-occupied buildings used exclusively for dwelling purposes and
containing fewer than three dwelling units or buildings, structures and
premises owned by the state, interstate agencies or the federal government.
[Amended 3-8-1993 by Ord. No. 5-1993]
   C.   Faithfully comply with all the requirements of the Uniform Fire Safety
Act and the Uniform Fire Code.
§ 144-12. Organization of Bureau of Fire Prevention.
Editor's Note: See
Ch. 28, Fire Prevention, Bureau of.
[Amended 3-8-1993 by Ord. No. 5-1993; 4-23-2001 by Ord. No. 15-2001; 3-25-2002
by Ord. No. 9-2002]
   The Bureau of Fire Prevention established by §
144-10 of this article shall:
   A.   Be a part of the Hammonton Fire Department.
   B.   Be under the direct supervision and control of the Fire Official.
   C.   Have at least one paid Fire Official and such paid inspectors as may be
necessary to enforce the Code.
   D.   The Fire Official shall be required to report to the Town
Administrator.
§ 144-13. Appointments; terms; removal from office.
   A.   Appointment of Fire Official. The Fire Official shall be certified by
the state and shall be appointed by the governing body from a list of three
names submitted by the Chief of the Fire Department.
[Amended 3-8-1993 by Ord. No. 5-1993]
   B.   Inspectors and other employees. Inspectors and other employees of the
enforcing agency shall be appointed by the governing body upon the
recommendation of the Fire Official. All life hazard use inspectors shall be
certified by the state.
   C.   Appointment of legal counsel. The governing body shall specifically
appoint legal counsel to assist the agency in enforcing the Uniform Fire Code.
   D.   Term of office. The Fire Official shall serve the term of office in
accordance with New Jersey Department of Personnel Rules and Regulations.
   E.   Removal from office. The Fire Official, inspectors and other employees
of the agency shall be subject to removal by the governing body for just cause.
Before removal from office, all persons shall be afforded an opportunity to be
heard by the governing body or a hearing officer designated by the same.
§ 144-14. Life-hazard uses.
   The Bureau of Fire Prevention established by §
144-10 of this article shall carry out the periodic inspections of life-hazard
uses required by the Uniform Fire Code on behalf of the Commissioner of the
Department of the Community Affairs.
§ 144-15. Non-life-hazard uses: inspection fee schedule.
[Amended 4-23-2001 by Ord. No. 15-2001]
   A.   Residential use group. Includes all buildings with dwelling units not
listed as a life-hazard by the New Jersey Bureau of Fire Safety, except one- or
two-family owner-occupied units.
 
 Unit Size                        Fee
 One to three units               $30
 Four to 10 units                 60
 Eleven to 20 units               100
 Twenty to 40 units               130
 Each additional 20 units or less 29
 
   B.   Business or industrial use group. Business or industrial use group
includes all buildings not listed as a life-hazard by the New Jersey Bureau of
Fire Safety.
      (1)   Building types.
         (a)   Buildings with or without attached dwelling units not in excess
of 1,000 square feet: $30.
         (b)   Buildings with or without attached dwelling units in excess of
1,000 square feet not exceeding 3,000 square feet: $40.
         (c)   Buildings with or without attached dwelling units in excess of
3,000 square feet not exceeding 9,000 square feet: $60.
         (d)   Buildings with or without attached dwelling units in excess of
9,000 square feet not exceeding 15,000 square feet: $100.
         (e)   Buildings in excess of 25,000 square feet not exceeding 50,000
square feet: $150.
         (f)   Buildings in excess of 50,000 square feet not exceeding 100,000
square feet: $200.
         (g)   Buildings in excess of 100,000 square feet not exceeding 200,000
square feet: $300.
         (h)   Buildings in excess of 200,000 square feet not exceeding 300,000
square feet: $400.
         (i)   Additional 100,000 square feet or part thereof: $100.
      (2)   Each floor or story shall be calculated as separate areas for total
building calculation.
   C.   Certificate of fire code status. [Amended 2-26-2018 by Ord. No. 005-
2018; 4-23-2018 by Ord. No. 013-2018]
      (1)   Any structure requiring inspection not covered under either the
life-hazard schedule or the non-life-hazard fee schedule: $25.
      (2)   The following building or structure, if classified as non-life
hazard, although not exempt from registration or inspection, will be exempt
from paying an inspection fee pursuant to the Act.
         (a)   Municipal-owned buildings.
         (b)   Fire stations.
         (c)   EMS stations.
         (d)   House of worship (excluding rooms for public assembly, i.e.,
meeting halls, social halls, rental halls).
         (e)   Farm buildings, packing houses, labor camps and farm storage
buildings.
         (f)   All inspections must be performed every five years.
   D.   Smoke detector inspections. Smoke detector inspections to be conducted
on all one- and two-family residential dwellings for resale and rental: $25.
   E.   Fire safety permits. All permit fees shall be regulated by the fee
schedule set by the State of New Jersey Uniform Fire Act (N.J.S.A. 52:27d-192
et seq; N.J.A.C. 5:70-2.9(C).)
§ 144-16. Permits.
[Amended 3-8-1993 by Ord. No. 5-1993]
   In accordance with N.J.A.C. 5:18-2(e), the fees for the permits listed in
N.J.A.C. 5:18-2.7(b) shall be as follows:
 
Type Fee
1    $ 25.00
2    100.00
3    200.00
4    300.00
5    1,000.00
 
§ 144-17. Board of Appeals.
[Amended 3-25-2002 by Ord. No. 9-2002]
   Pursuant to N.J.S.A. 52:27D-208, any person aggrieved by any action of the
local enforcing agency shall have the right to appeal to Atlantic County
Construction Board of Appeals.
§ 144-18. Enforcement; violations and penalties.
   Enforcement, violations and penalties shall be in conformity with the
Uniform Fire Safety Act and the Uniform Fire Code.
CHAPTER 147.
FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
[HISTORY: Adopted by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton 7-
25-1988 by Ord. No. 16-1988. Amendments noted where applicable.]
   
§ 147-1.   Findings; purpose.
   
§ 147-2.   Mechanisms for protection against flood hazard and blight.
   
§ 147-3.   Word usage and definitions.
   
§ 147-4.   Applicability.
   
§ 147-5.   Basis for establishing areas of special flood hazard.
   
§ 147-6.   Establishing the local design flood elevation (LDFE).
   §
147-7.   Coordination with building codes.
   §
147-8.   Ordinary building maintenance and minor work.
   §
147-9.   Compliance required; violations and penalties.
   §
147-10.   Solid waste disposal in a flood hazard area.
   §
147-11.   Abrogation; more stringent restrictions to prevail.
   §
147-12.   Interpretation of provisions.
   §
147-13.   Warning; disclaimer of liability.
   §
147-14.   Duties and powers of the Floodplain Administrator.
   §
147-15.   Development permits.
   §
147-16.   Site plans and construction documents.
   §
147-17.   Inspections.
   §
147-18.   Interpretation of FIRM boundaries.
   §
147-19.   Appeal Board.
   §
147-20.   Conditions for variances.
   §
147-21.   Violations.
   §
147-22.   Standards for flood hazard reduction.
GENERAL REFERENCES
   Uniform construction codes — See
Ch. 115.
   Sludge spreading on areas of seasonal flooding — See
Ch. 230, §
230-4.
   Land development floodplain regulations — See
Ch. 175, §
175-103.
§ 147-1. Findings; purpose.
[Amended 3-28-2022 by Ord. No. 007-2022]
   A.   The Legislature of the State of New Jersey has, in N.J.S.A. 40:48-1 et
seq. and 40:55D-1 et seq., delegated the responsibility to local governmental
units to adopt regulations designed to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare of its citizenry. Therefore, the Mayor and Common Council find
as a fact that:
      (1)   The flood hazard areas of the Town of Hammonton are subject to
periodic inundation which results in loss of life and property, health and
safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary
public expenditures for flood protection and relief and impairment of the tax
base, all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general
welfare.
      (2)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in areas of special flood hazard which increase flood heights and
velocities and, when inadequately anchored, damage uses in other areas. Uses
that are inadequately flood proofed, elevated or otherwise protected from flood
damage also contribute to the flood loss.
   B.   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety
and general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
      (1)   Protect human life and health.
      (2)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects.
      (3)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public.
      (4)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions.
      (5)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities, such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines and streets and bridges,
located in areas of special flood hazard.
      (6)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of areas of special flood hazard so as to minimize future flood
blight areas.
      (7)   Ensure that property owners, occupants, and potential owners are
aware of property located in flood hazard areas.
      (8)   Ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard
assume responsibility for their actions.
      (9)   Prevent unnecessary disruption of commerce, access, and public
service during times of flooding.
      (10)   Manage the alteration of natural floodplains and stream channels.
      (11)   Manage filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage or erosion potential.
      (12)   Prevent and regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
divert floodwater or increase flood hazards.
      (13)   Contribute to improved construction techniques in the floodplain.
      (14)   Meet the requirements of the National Flood Insurance Program for
community participation set forth in Title 44 Code of Federal Regulations,
Section 59.22
§ 147-2. Mechanisms for protection against flood hazard and blight.
   In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter includes methods and
provisions for:
   A.   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health, safety
and property due to water or erosion hazards or which result in damaging
increases in erosion or in flood heights or velocities.
   B.   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction.
   C.   Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel floodwaters.
   D.   Controlling filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage.
   E.   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards in other
areas.
§ 147-3. Word usage and definitions.
[Amended 8-27-2018 by Ord. No. 29-2018; 9-24-2018 by Ord. No. 40-2018; 3-28-
2022 by Ord. No. 007-2022]
   A.   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this
chapter shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common
usage and to give this chapter its most reasonable application.
   B.   As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
indicated:
   30 DAY PERIOD – The period of time prescribed by N.J.S.A. 40:49-5 in which a
property owner is afforded the opportunity to correct zoning and solid waste
disposal after a notice of violation pertaining to this chapter has been
issued.
   100 YEAR FLOOD ELEVATION – Elevation of flooding having a 1% annual chance
of being equaled or exceeded in a given year which is also referred to as the
Base Flood Elevation.
   500 YEAR FLOOD ELEVATION – Elevation of flooding having a 0.2% annual chance
of being equaled or exceeded in a given year.
   A ZONES - Areas of 'Special Flood Hazard in which the elevation of the
surface water resulting from a flood that has a 1% annual chance of equaling or
exceeding the Base Flood Elevation (BFE) in any given year shown on the Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) zones A, AE, AH, A1-A30, AR, AR/A, AR/AE, AR/A1-A30,
AR/AH, and AR/AO. When used in reference to the development of a structure in
this chapter, A Zones are not inclusive of Coastal A Zones because of the
higher building code requirements for Coastal A Zones.
   AGRICULTURAL STRUCTURE – A structure used solely for agricultural purposes
in which the use is exclusively in connection with the production, harvesting,
storage, drying, or raising of agricultural commodities, including the raising
of livestock. Communities must require that new construction or substantial
improvements of agricultural structures be elevated or floodproofed to or above
the Base Flood Elevation (BFE) as any other nonresidential building. Under some
circumstances it may be appropriate to wet-floodproof certain types of
agricultural structures when located in wide, expansive floodplains through
issuance of a variance. This should only be done for structures used for
temporary storage of equipment or crops or temporary shelter for livestock and
only in circumstances where it can be demonstrated that agricultural structures
can be designed in such a manner that results in minimal damage to the
structure and its contents and will create no additional threats to public
safety. New construction or substantial improvement of livestock confinement
buildings, poultry houses, dairy operations, similar livestock operations and
any structure that represents more than a minimal investment must meet the
elevation or dry-floodproofing requirements of 44 CFR 60.3(c)(3).
   AH ZONE – Areas subject to inundation by one-percent-annual-chance shallow
flooding (usually areas of ponding) where average depths are between one and
three feet. Base Flood Elevations (BFEs) derived from detailed hydraulic
analyses are shown in this zone.
   ALTERATION OF A WATERCOURSE – A dam, impoundment, channel relocation, change
in channel alignment, channelization, or change in cross-sectional area of the
channel or the channel capacity, or any other form of modification which may
alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or velocity of the riverine
flow of water during conditions of the base flood.
   AO ZONE – Areas subject to inundation by one-percent-annual-chance shallow
flooding (usually sheet flow on sloping terrain) where average depths are
between one and three feet.
   APPEAL – A request for a review of the Zoning Officer's interpretation of
any provision of this chapter or a request for a variance.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING – A designated Zone AO, AH, AR/AO or AR/AH (or VO)
on a community's Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with a one percent or greater
annual chance of flooding to an average depth of one to three feet where a
clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable, and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD – The greater of the following: (1) Land in the
floodplain within a community subject to a one percent or greater chance of
flooding in any given year, shown on the FIRM as Zone V, VE, V1- 3-, A, AO, A1-
30, AE, A99, or AH; (2) Land and the space above that land, which lies below
the peak water surface elevation of the flood hazard area design flood for a
particular water, as determined using the methods set forth in the New Jersey
Flood Hazard Area Control Act in N.J.A.C. 7:13; (3) Riparian Buffers as
determined in the New Jersey Flood Hazard Area Control Act in N.J.A.C. 7:13.
Also referred to as the SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA.
   ASCE 7 – The standard for the Minimum Design Loads for Buildings and Other
Structures, referenced by the building code and developed and published by the
American Society of Civil Engineers, Reston, VA. which includes but is not
limited to methodology and equations necessary for determining structural and
flood-related design requirements and determining the design requirements for
structures that may experience a combination of loads including those from
natural hazards. Flood related equations include those for determining erosion,
scour, lateral, vertical, hydrostatic, hydrodynamic, buoyancy, breaking wave,
and debris impact.
   ASCE 24 – The standard for Flood Resistant Design and Construction,
referenced by the building code and developed and published by the American
Society of Civil Engineers, Reston, VA. References to ASCE 24 shall mean ASCE
24-14 or the most recent version of ASCE 24 adopted in the UCC Code [N.J.A.C.
5:23].
   BASE FLOOD – A flood having a one-percent chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE) - The water surface elevation resulting from a
flood that has a 1% or greater chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given
year, as shown on a published Flood Insurance Study (FIS), or preliminary flood
elevation guidance from FEMA. May also be referred to as the "100-year flood
elevation".
   BASEMENT – Any area of the building having its floor Subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BEST AVAILABLE FLOOD HAZARD DATA – The most recent available preliminary
flood risk guidance FEMA has provided. The Best Available Flood Hazard Data may
be depicted on but not limited to Advisory Flood Hazard Area Maps, Work Maps,
or Preliminary FIS and FIRM.
   BEST AVAILABLE FLOOD HAZARD DATA AREA – The areal mapped extent associated
with the most recent available preliminary flood risk guidance FEMA has
provided. The Best Available Flood Hazard Data may be depicted on but not
limited to Advisory Flood Hazard Area Maps, Work Maps, or Preliminary FIS and
FIRM.
   BEST AVAILABLE FLOOD HAZARD DATA ELEVATION – The most recent available
preliminary flood elevation guidance FEMA has provided. The Best Available
Flood Hazard Data may be depicted on but not limited to Advisory Flood Hazard
Area Maps, Work Maps, or Preliminary FIS and FIRM.
   BREAKAWAY WALL – Any type of wall subject to flooding that is not required
to provide structural support to a building or other structure and that is
designed and constructed such that, below the Local Design Flood Elevation, it
will collapse under specific lateral loads such that (1) it allows the free
passage of floodwaters, and (2) it does not damage the structure or supporting
foundation system. Certification in the V Zone Certificate of the design,
plans, and specifications by a licensed design professional that these walls
are in accordance with accepted standards of practice is required as part of
the permit application for new and substantially improved V Zone and Coastal A
Zone structures. A completed certification must be submitted at permit
application.
   BUILDING – Per the FHACA, "building" means a structure enclosed with
exterior walls or fire walls, erected and framed of component structural parts,
designed for the housing, shelter, enclosure, and support of individuals,
animals, or property of any kind. A building may have a temporary or permanent
foundation. A building that is intended for regular human occupation and/or
residence is considered a habitable building.
   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION – A Conditional Letter of Map Revision
(CLOMR) is FEMA's comment on a proposed project that would, upon construction,
affect the hydrologic or hydraulic characteristics of a flooding source and
thus result in the modification of the existing regulatory floodway, the
effective Base Flood Elevations (BFEs), or the Special Flood Hazard Area
(SFHA). The letter does not revise an effective NFIP map, it indicates whether
the project, if built as proposed, would be recognized by FEMA. FEMA charges a
fee for processing a CLOMR to recover the costs associated with the review that
is described in the Letter of Map Change (LOMC) process. Building permits
cannot be issued based on a CLOMR, because a CLOMR does not change the NFIP
map.
   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION – FILL — A Conditional Letter of Map
Revision – Fill (CLOMR-F) is FEMA's comment on a proposed project involving the
placement of fill outside of the regulatory floodway that would, upon
construction, affect the hydrologic or hydraulic characteristics of a flooding
source and thus result in the modification of the existing regulatory floodway,
the effective Base Flood Elevations (BFEs), or the Special Flood Hazard Area
(SFHA). The letter does not revise an effective NFIP map, it indicates whether
the project, if built as proposed, would be recognized by FEMA. FEMA charges a
fee for processing a CLOMR to recover the costs associated with the review that
is described in the Letter of Map Change (LOMC) process. Building permits
cannot be issued based on a CLOMR, because a CLOMR does not change the NFIP
map.
   CRITICAL BUILDING – Per the FHACA, "critical building" means that:
   (1)   It is essential to maintaining continuity of vital government
operations and/or supporting emergency response, sheltering, and medical care
functions before, during, and after a flood, such as a hospital, medical
clinic, police station, fire station, emergency response center, or public
shelter; or
   (2)   It serves large numbers of people who may be unable to leave the
facility through their own efforts, thereby hindering or preventing safe
evacuation of the building during a flood event, such as a school, college,
dormitory, jail or detention facility, day care center, assisted living
facility, or nursing home.
   DEVELOPMENT – Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to, buildings or other structures, tanks, temporary
structures, temporary or permanent storage of materials, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavations, drilling operations and other land-
disturbing activities.
   DIGITAL FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (DFIRM) – The official map on which the
Federal Insurance Administration has delineated both the areas of special flood
hazard and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   DRY FLOODPROOFING – A combination of measures that results in a non-
residential structure, including the attendant utilities and equipment as
described in the latest version of ASCE 24, being watertight with all elements
substantially impermeable and with structural components having the capacity to
resist flood loads.
   ELEVATED BUILDING – A building that has no basement and that has its lowest
elevated floor raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear walls,
posts, piers, pilings, or columns. Solid perimeter foundations walls are not an
acceptable means of elevating buildings in V and VE Zones.
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE – An administrative tool of the National Flood
Insurance Program (NFIP) that can be used to provide elevation information, to
determine the proper insurance premium rate, and to support an application for
a Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA) or Letter of Map Revision based on fill (LOMR-
F).
   ENCROACHMENT – The placement of fill, excavation, buildings, permanent
structures or other development into a flood hazard area which may impede or
alter the flow capacity of riverine flood hazard areas.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION – A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   FEMA PUBLICATIONS – Any publication authored or referenced by FEMA related
to building science, building safety, or floodplain management related to the
National Flood Insurance Program. Publications shall include but are not
limited to technical bulletins, desk references, and American Society of Civil
Engineers Standards documents including ASCE 24.
   FLOOD OR FLOODING –
   (1)   A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of
normally dry land areas from:
      (a)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters.
      (b)   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff or surface waters from
any source.
      (c)   Mudslides (i.e. mudflows) which are proximately caused by flooding
as defined in (1)(b) of this definition and are akin to a river or liquid and
flowing mud on the surfaces of normally dry land areas, as when earth is
carried by a current of water and deposited along the path of the current.
   (2)   The collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a lake or other
body of water as a result of erosion or undermining caused by waves or currents
of water exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by an
unusually high water level in a natural body of water, accompanied by a severe
storm, or by an unanticipated force of nature, such as flash flood or an
abnormal tidal surge, or by some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event
which results in flooding as defined in paragraph (1)(a) of this definition.
   FLOOD HAZARD AREA DESIGN FLOOD ELEVATION – Per the FHACA, the peak water
surface elevation that will occur in a water during the flood hazard area
design flood. This elevation is determined via available flood mapping adopted
by the State, flood mapping published by FEMA (including effective flood
mapping dated on or after January 31, 1980, or any more recent advisory,
preliminary, or pending flood mapping; whichever results in higher flood
elevations, wider floodway limits, greater flow rates, or indicates a change
from an A zone to a V zone or coastal A zone), approximation, or calculation
pursuant to the Flood Hazard Area Control Act Rules at N.J.A.C. 7:13-3.1 - 3.6
and is typically higher than FEMA's base flood elevation. A water that has a
drainage area measuring less than 50 acres does not possess, and is not
assigned, a flood hazard area design flood elevation.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM) – The official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the areas of special flood
hazards and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS) – The official report in which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency has provided flood profiles, as well as the Flood
Insurance Rate Map(s) and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD PRONE AREA – Any land area susceptible to being
inundated by water from any source. See "flood or flooding."
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS – Zoning ordinances, subdivision
regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances
(such as a Floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and erosion control
ordinance) and other applications of police power. The term describes such
State or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provides
standards for the purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
   FLOODPROOFING – Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE – Certification by a licensed design professional
that the design and methods of construction for floodproofing a non-residential
structure are in accordance with accepted standards of practice.to a proposed
height above the structure's lowest adjacent grade that meets or exceeds the
Local Design Flood Elevation. A completed floodproofing certificate is required
at permit application.
   FLOODWAY – The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than 0.2 feet.
   FREEBOARD – A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level
for purposes of flood plain management. "Freeboard" tends to compensate for the
many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the
height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as
wave action, bridge openings, and the hydrological effect of urbanization of
the watershed.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE – A use that cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water, including only
docking facilities, port facilities necessary for the loading or unloading of
cargo or passengers, and shipbuilding and ship repair facilities. The term does
not include long-term storage or related manufacturing facilities.
   HABITABLE BUILDING – Pursuant to the FHACA Rules (N.J.A.C. 7:13), means a
building that is intended for regular human occupation and/or residence.
Examples of a habitable building include a single-family home, duplex, multi-
residence building, or critical building; a commercial building such as a
retail store, restaurant, office building, or gymnasium; an accessory structure
that is regularly occupied, such as a garage, barn, or workshop; mobile and
manufactured homes, and trailers intended for human residence, which are set on
a foundation and/or connected to utilities, such as in a mobile home park (not
including campers and recreational vehicles); and any other building that is
regularly occupied, such as a house of worship, community center, or meeting
hall, or animal shelter that includes regular human access and occupation.
Examples of a non-habitable building include a bus stop shelter, utility
building, storage shed, self-storage unit, construction trailer, or an
individual shelter for animals such as a doghouse or outdoor kennel.
   HARDSHIP – As related to §
147-20 of this chapter, meaning the exceptional hardship that would result from
a failure to grant the requested variance. The Town of Hammonton requires that
the variance be exceptional, unusual, and peculiar to the property involved.
Mere economic or financial hardship alone is not exceptional. Inconvenience,
aesthetic considerations, physical handicaps, personal preferences, or the
disapproval of one's neighbors likewise cannot, as a rule, qualify as an
exceptional hardship. All of these problems can be resolved through other means
without granting a variance, even if the alternative is more expensive, or
requires the property owner to build elsewhere or put the parcel to a different
use than originally intended.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE – The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed or existing walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE – Any structure that is:
   (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
   (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district;
   (3)   Individually listed on a State inventory of historic places in States
with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the Secretary
of the Interior; or
   (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places and
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
      (a)   By an approved State program as determined by the Secretary of
Interior; or
      (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in States without
approved programs.
   LAWFULLY EXISTING – Per the FHACA, means an existing fill, structure and/or
use, which meets all Federal, State, and local laws, and which is not in
violation of the FHACA because it was established:
   (1)   Prior to January 31, 1980; or
   (2)   On or after January 31, 1980, in accordance with the requirements of
the FHACA as it existed at the time the fill, structure and/or use was
established.
   Note: Substantially damaged properties and substantially improved properties
that have not been elevated are not considered "lawfully existing" for the
purposes of the NFIP. This definition is included in this chapter to clarify
the applicability of any more stringent statewide floodplain management
standards required under the FHACA.
   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT – A Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA) is an official
amendment, by letter, to an effective National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP)
map that is requested through the Letter of Map Change (LOMC) process. A LOMA
establishes a property's location in relation to the Special Flood Hazard Area
(SFHA). LOMAs are usually issued because a property has been inadvertently
mapped as being in the floodplain but is actually on natural high ground above
the base flood elevation. Because a LOMA officially amends the effective NFIP
map, it is a public record that the community must maintain. Any LOMA should be
noted on the community's master flood map and filed by panel number in an
accessible location.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE – The Letter of Map Change (LOMC) process is a service
provided by FEMA for a fee that allows the public to request a change in flood
zone designation in an Area of Special Flood Hazard on a Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM). Conditional Letters of Map Revision, Conditional Letters of Map
Revision - Fill, Letters of Map Revision, Letters of Map Revision-Fill, and
Letters of Map Amendment are requested through the Letter of Map Change (LOMC)
process.
   LETTER OF MAP REVISION – A Letter of Map Revision (LOMR) is FEMA's
modification to an effective Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM). Letter of Map
Revisions are generally based on the implementation of physical measures that
affect the hydrologic or hydraulic characteristics of a flooding source and
thus result in the modification of the existing regulatory floodway, the
effective Base Flood Elevations (BFEs), or the Special Flood Hazard Area
(SFHA). The LOMR officially revises the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) and
sometimes the Flood Insurance Study (FIS) report, and when appropriate,
includes a description of the modifications. The LOMR is generally accompanied
by an annotated copy of the affected portions of the FIRM or FIS report.
Because a LOMR officially revises the effective NFIP map, it is a public record
that the community must maintain. Any LOMR should be noted on the community's
master flood map and filed by panel number in an accessible location.
   LETTER OF MAP REVISION – FILL – A Letter of Map Revision Based on Fill
(LOMR-F) is FEMA's modification of the Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA) shown
on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) based on the placement of fill outside
the existing regulatory floodway may be initiated through the Letter of Map
Change (LOMC) Process. Because a LOMR-F officially revises the effective Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) map, it is a public record that the community must
maintain. Any LOMR-F should be noted on the community's master flood map and
filed by panel number in an accessible location.
   LICENSED DESIGN PROFESSIONAL – Licensed design professional shall refer to
either a New Jersey Licensed Professional Engineer, licensed by the New Jersey
State Board of Professional Engineers and Land Surveyors or a New Jersey
Licensed Architect, licensed by the New Jersey State Board of Architects.
   LICENSED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER – A licensed professional engineer shall
refer to individuals licensed by the New Jersey State Board of Professional
Engineers and Land Surveyors.
   LOCAL DESIGN FLOOD ELEVATION (LDFE) – The elevation reflective of the most
recent available preliminary flood elevation guidance FEMA has provided as
depicted on but not limited to Advisory Flood Hazard Area Maps, Work Maps, or
Preliminary FIS and FIRM which is also inclusive of freeboard specified by the
New Jersey Flood Hazard Area Control Act and Uniform Construction Codes and any
additional freeboard specified in a community's ordinance. In no circumstances
shall a project's LDFE be lower than a permit-specified Flood Hazard Area
Design Flood Elevation or a valid NJDEP Flood Hazard Area Verification Letter
plus the freeboard as required in ASCE 24 and the effective FEMA Base Flood
Elevation.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE – The lowest point of ground, patio, or sidewalk slab
immediately next a structure, except in AO Zones where it is the natural grade
elevation.
   LOWEST FLOOR – In A Zones, the lowest floor is the top surface of the lowest
floor of the lowest enclosed area (including basement). In V Zones and coastal
A Zones, the bottom of the lowest horizontal structural member of a building is
the lowest floor. An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
the parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement is not considered a building's lowest floor provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of other
applicable non-elevation design requirements of these regulations.
   MANUFACTURED HOME – A structure that is transportable in one or more
sections, eight feet or more in width and greater than 400 square feet, built
on a permanent chassis, designed for use with or without a permanent foundation
when attached to the required utilities, and constructed to the Federal
Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards and rules and regulations
promulgated by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. The term
also includes mobile homes, park trailers, travel trailers and similar
transportable structures that are placed on a site for 180 consecutive days or
longer.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION – A parcel or
contiguous parcels of land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for
rent or sale.
   MARKET VALUE- The price at which a property will change hands between a
willing buyer and a willing seller, neither party being under compulsion to buy
or sell and both having reasonable knowledge of relevant facts. As used in
these regulations, the term refers to the market value of buildings and
structures, excluding the land and other improvements on the parcel. Market
value shall be determined by one of the following methods (1) Actual Cash Value
(replacement cost depreciated for age and quality of construction), (2) tax
assessment value adjusted to approximate market value by a factor provided by
the Property Appraiser, or (3) established by a qualified independent
appraiser.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION – Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of the first floodplain regulation adopted by a
community; includes any subsequent improvements to such structures. New
construction includes work determined to be a substantial improvement.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION – A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of the first floodplain management regulations adopted by the
municipality.
   NON-RESIDENTIAL – Pursuant to ASCE 24, any building or structure or portion
thereof that is not classified as residential.
   ORDINARY MAINTENANCE AND MINOR WORK – This term refers to types of work
excluded from construction permitting under N.J.A.C. 5:23 in the March 5, 2018
New Jersey Register. Some of these types of work must be considered in
determinations of substantial improvement and substantial damage in regulated
floodplains under 44 CFR 59.1. These types of work include but are not limited
to replacements of roofing, siding, interior finishes, kitchen cabinets,
plumbing fixtures and piping, HVAC and air conditioning equipment, exhaust
fans, built in appliances, electrical wiring, etc. Improvements necessary to
correct existing violations of State or local health, sanitation, or code
enforcement officials which are the minimum necessary to assure safe living
conditions and improvements of historic structures as discussed in 44 CFR 59.1
shall not be included in the determination of ordinary maintenance and minor
work.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE – A vehicle that is built on a single chassis, 400
square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projection,
designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light-duty truck, and
designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary living
quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use. A recreational
vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is
attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and security
devices and has no permanently attached additions.
   RESIDENTIAL – Pursuant to the ASCE 24:
   (1)   Buildings and structures and portions thereof where people live or
that are used for sleeping purposes on a transient or non-transient basis;
   (2)   Structures including but not limited to one- and two-family dwellings,
townhouses, condominiums, multi-family dwellings, apartments, congregate
residences, boarding houses, lodging houses, rooming houses, hotels, motels,
apartment buildings, convents, monasteries, dormitories, fraternity houses,
sorority houses, vacation time-share properties; and
   (3)   Institutional facilities where people are cared for or live on a 24-
hour basis in a supervised environment, including but not limited to board and
care facilities, assisted living facilities, halfway houses, group homes,
congregate care facilities, social rehabilitation facilities, alcohol and drug
centers, convalescent facilities, hospitals, nursing homes, mental hospitals,
detoxification facilities, prisons, jails, reformatories, detention centers,
correctional centers, and prerelease centers.
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL – "Solid Waste Disposal" shall mean the storage,
treatment, utilization, processing or final disposition of solid waste as
described in N.J.A.C. 7:26-1.6 or the storage of unsecured materials as
described in N.J.A.C. 7:13-2.3 for a period of greater than 6 months as
specified in N.J.A.C. 7:26 which have been discharged, deposited, injected,
dumped, spilled, leaked, or placed into any land or water such that such solid
waste may enter the environment or be emitted into the air or discharged into
any waters, including groundwaters.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION - The start of construction is as follows:
   (1)   For other than new construction or substantial improvements, under the
Coastal Barrier Resources Act (CBRA), this is the date the building permit was
issued, provided that the actual start of construction, repair, rehabilitation,
addition, placement or other improvement was within 180 days of the permit
date. The actual start means either the first placement of permanent
construction of a building on site, such as the pouring of a slab or footing,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured (mobile) home on a
foundation. For a substantial improvement, actual start of construction means
the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a
building, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the
building.
   (2)   For the purposes of determining whether proposed construction must
meet new requirements when National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) maps are
issued or revised and Base Flood Elevation's (BFEs) increase or zones change,
the start of construction includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement, or other
improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start means
either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site,
such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
      Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading, and filling, nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings,
piers, or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include
the installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or
sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. Such
development must also be permitted and must meet new requirements when National
Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) maps are issued or revised and Base Flood
Elevations (BFEs) increase or zones change.
      For a substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the
first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a
building, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the
building.
      For determining if new construction and substantial improvements within
the Coastal Barrier Resources System (CBRS) can obtain flood insurance, a
different definition applies.
   STRUCTURE – A walled and roofed building, a manufactured home or a gas or
liquid storage tank that is principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE – Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its condition before damage would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT – Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the "start of construction" of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred "substantial
damage", regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
   (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of State or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement officer and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
   (2)   Any alteration of a "historic structure", provided that the alteration
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a "historic
structure".
   UTILITY AND MISCELLANEOUS GROUP U BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES – Buildings and
structures of an accessory character and miscellaneous structures not
classified in any special occupancy, as described in ASCE 24.
   VARIANCE – A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter which
permits construction in a manner that would otherwise be prohibited by this
chapter.
   VIOLATION – The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this chapter. A new or substantially improved structure or other
development without the elevation certificate, other certifications, or other
evidence of compliance required in 44 CFR 2 § 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)(10), (e)
(2), (e)(4), or (e)(5) is presumed to be in violation until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION – The height, in relation to the North American
Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988, (or other datum, where specified) of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the flood plains of coastal or riverine
areas.
   WATERCOURSE – A river, creek, stream, channel, or other topographic feature
in, on, through, or over which water flows at least periodically.
   WET FLOODPROOFING – Floodproofing method that relies on the use of flood
damage resistant materials and construction techniques in areas of a structure
that are below the Local Design Flood Elevation by intentionally allowing them
to flood. The application of wet floodproofing as a flood protection technique
under the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) is limited to enclosures
below elevated residential and non-residential structures and to accessory and
agricultural structures that have been issued variances by the community.
§ 147-4. Applicability.
   This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within the
jurisdiction of the Town of Hammonton.
§ 147-5. Basis for establishing areas of special flood hazard.
[Amended 8-27-2018 by Ord. No. 29-2018; 3-28-2022 by Ord. No. 007-2022]
   The areas of special flood hazard for the Town of Hammonton, Community No.
340010, are identified and defined on the following documents prepared by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency:
   A.   A scientific and engineering report "Flood Insurance Study, Atlantic
County, New Jersey (All Jurisdictions)" dated August 28, 2018.
   B.   "Flood Insurance Rate Map for Atlantic County, New Jersey (All
Jurisdictions)" as shown on Index and panel(s) 34001C0010F, 34001C0015F,
34001C0016F, 34001C0017F, 34001C0018F, 34001C0019F, 34001C0030F, 34001C0033F,
34001C0040F, 34001C0041F, 34001C0101F,34001C0102F, 34001C0104F, 34001C0108F,
and 34001C0110F, whose effective date is August 28, 2018.
   C.   Federal Best Available Information. The Town of Hammonton shall utilize
Federal flood information as listed in the table below that provides more
detailed hazard information, higher flood elevations, larger flood hazard
areas, and results in more restrictive regulations. This information may
include but is not limited to preliminary flood elevation guidance from FEMA
(such as Advisory Flood Hazard Area Maps, Work Maps or Preliminary FIS and
FIRM). Additional Federal Best Available studies issued after the date of this
chapter must also be considered. These studies are listed on FEMA's Map Service
Center. This information shall be used for floodplain regulation purposes only.
 
Map Panel # Preliminary Date Map Panel # Preliminary Date
                                       
                                       
                                       
                                       
 
   D.   Other Best Available Data. The Town of Hammonton shall utilize high
water elevations from flood events, groundwater flooding areas, studies by
federal or state agencies, or other information deemed appropriate by the Town
of Hammonton. Other "best available information" may not be used which results
in less restrictive flood elevations, design standards, or smaller flood hazard
areas than the sources described in §§ 147-5(B) and 147-5(C) above. This
information shall be used for floodplain regulation purposes only.
   E.   State Regulated Flood Hazard Areas. For State regulated waters, the NJ
Department of Environmental Protection (NJDEP) identifies the flood hazard area
as the land, and the space above that land, which lies below the "Flood Hazard
Area Control Act Design Flood Elevation", as defined in § 147-3(B), and as
described in the New Jersey Flood Hazard Area Control Act at N.J.A.C. 7:13. A
FHACA flood hazard area exists along every regulated water that has a drainage
area of 50 acres or greater. Such area may extend beyond the boundaries of the
Special Flood Hazard Areas (SFHAs) as identified by FEMA. The following is a
list of New Jersey State studied waters in this community under the FHACA, and
their respective map identification numbers.
   List of State Studied Waters
 
Name of Studied Water File Name Map Number
                               
                               
                               
 
The above documents are hereby adopted and declared to be a part of this
Chapter. The Flood Insurance Study and maps set forth in §§ 147-5(A) and 147-5
(B) are on file at Hammonton Town Hall, 100 E. Central Avenue, Hammonton New
Jersey.
§ 147-6. Establishing the Local Design Flood Elevation (LDFE).
[Added 3-28-2022 by Ord. No. 007-2022]
   The Local Design Flood Elevation (LDFE) is established in the flood hazard
areas determined in §
147-5, above, using the best available flood hazard data sources, and the Flood
Hazard Area Control Act minimum Statewide elevation requirements for lowest
floors in A, Coastal A, and V zones, ASCE 24 requirements for critical
facilities as specified by the building code, plus additional freeboard as
specified by this chapter.
At a minimum, the Local Design Flood Elevation shall be as follows:
   A.   For a delineated watercourse, the elevation associated with the Best
Available Flood Hazard Data Area determined in §
147-5, above plus one foot or as described by N.J.A.C. 7:13 of freeboard; or
   B.   For any undelineated watercourse (where mapping or studies described in
147-5(B) and
147-5(C) above are not available) that has a contributary drainage area of 50
acres or more, the applicants must provide one of the following to determine
the Local Design Flood Elevation:
      (1)   A copy of an unexpired NJDEP Flood Hazard Area Verification plus
one foot of freeboard and any additional freeboard as required by ASCE 24-14;
or
      (2)   A determination of the Flood Hazard Area Design Flood Elevation
using Method 5 or Method 6 (as described in N.J.A.C. 7:13) plus one foot of
freeboard and any additional freeboard as required by ASCE 24-14. Any
determination using these methods must be sealed and submitted according to §
147-16(C).
   C.   AO Zones - For Zone AO areas on the municipality's FIRM (or on
preliminary flood elevation guidance from FEMA), the Local Design Flood
Elevation is determined from the FIRM panel as the highest adjacent grade plus
the depth number specified plus one foot of freeboard. If no depth number is
specified, the Local Design Flood Elevation is three feet above the highest
adjacent grade.
   D.   Class IV Critical Facilities - For any proposed development of new and
substantially improved Flood Design Class IV Critical Facilities, the Local
Design Flood Elevation must be the higher of the 0.2% annual chance (500 year)
flood elevation or the Flood Hazard Area Design Flood Elevation with an
additional 2 feet of freeboard in accordance with ASCE 24.
   E.   Class Ill Critical Facilities - For proposed development of new and
substantially improved Flood Design Class III Critical Facilities in coastal
high hazard areas, the Local Design Flood Elevation must be the higher of the
0.2% annual chance (500 year) flood elevation or the Flood Hazard Area Design
Flood Elevation with an additional one foot of freeboard in accordance with
ASCE 24.
§ 147-7. Coordination with building codes.
[Added 3-28-2022 by Ord. No. 007-2022]
   Pursuant to the requirement established in N.J.A.C. 5:23, the Uniform
Construction Code, that the Town of Hammonton administer and enforce the State
building codes, Town Council of the Town of Hammonton does hereby acknowledge
that the Uniform Construction Code contains certain provisions that apply to
the design and construction of buildings and structures in flood hazard areas.
Therefore, these regulations are intended to be administered and enforced in
conjunction with the Uniform Construction Code.
§ 147-8. Ordinary building maintenance and minor work.
[Added 3-28-2022 by Ord. No. 007-2022]
   Improvements defined as ordinary building maintenance and minor work
projects by the Uniform Construction Code including non-structural replacement-
in-kind of windows, doors, cabinets, plumbing fixtures, decks, walls,
partitions, new flooring materials, roofing, etc. shall be evaluated by the
Floodplain Administrator through the floodplain development permit to ensure
compliance with the Substantial Damage and Substantial Improvement §
147-14(M) of this chapter. 
§ 147-9. Compliance required; violations and penalties.
[Amended 8-27-2018 by Ord. No. 29-2018; 9-24-2018 by Ord. No. 40-2018; 3-28-
2022 by Ord. No. 007-2022]
   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, re-located to,
extended, converted or altered without full compliance with the terms of this
chapter and other applicable regulations. Violations of the provisions of this
chapter by failure to comply with any of its requirements, including violations
of conditions and safeguards established in connection with conditions, shall
constitute a violation under N.J.S.A. 40:49-5. Any person who violates this
chapter or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction
thereof, be subject to one or more of the following: a fine of not more than
$1,250, imprisonment for a period not to exceed 90 days or a period of
community service not to exceed 90 days and in addition shall pay all costs and
expenses involved in the case. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the Town
of Hammonton from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or
remedy any violation.
Each day in which a violation of an ordinance exists shall be considered to be
a separate and distinct violation subject to the imposition of a separate
penalty for each day of the violation as the Court may determine except that
the owner will be afforded the opportunity to cure or abate the condition
during a 30 day period and shall be afforded the opportunity for a hearing
before the court for an independent determination concerning the violation.
Subsequent to the expiration of the 30 day period, a fine greater than $1,250
may be imposed if the court has not determined otherwise, or if upon
reinspection of the property, it is determined that the abatement has not been
substantially completed.
Any person who is convicted of violating an ordinance within one year of the
date of a previous violation of the same ordinance and who was fined for the
previous violation, shall be sentenced by a court to an additional fine as a
repeat offender. The additional fine imposed by the court upon a person for a
repeated offense shall not be less than the minimum or exceed the maximum fine
fixed for a violation of the ordinance, but shall be calculated separately from
the fine imposed for the violation of the ordinance.
§ 147-10. Solid waste disposal in a flood hazard area.
[Added 3-28-2022 by Ord. No. 007-2022]
   Any person who has unlawfully disposed of solid waste in a floodway or
floodplain who fails to comply with this chapter or fails to comply with any of
its requirements shall upon conviction thereof be fined not more than $2,500 or
up to a maximum penalty by a fine not exceeding $10,000 under N.J.S.A. 40:49-5.
§ 147-11. Abrogation; more stringent restrictions to prevail.
[Amended 3-28-2022 by Ord. No. 007-2022]
   These regulations supersede any ordinance in effect in flood hazard areas.
However, these regulations are not intended to repeal or abrogate any existing
ordinances including land development regulations, subdivision regulations,
zoning ordinances, stormwater management regulations, or building codes. In the
event of a conflict between these regulations and any other ordinance, code, or
regulation, the more restrictive shall govern.
§ 147-12. Interpretation of provisions.
[Amended 3-28-2022 by Ord. No. 007-2022]
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   A.   Considered as minimum requirements;
   B.   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   C.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under state
statutes.
§ 147-13. Warning; disclaimer of liability.
[Amended 3-28-2022 by Ord. No. 007-2022]
The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the Town of Hammonton, any officer or
employee thereof or the Federal Insurance Administration for any flood damages
that result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision
lawfully made there under.
§ 147-14. Duties and powers of the Floodplain Administrator.
[Added 3-28-2022 by Ord. No. 007-2022]
   A.   Floodplain Administrator designation. The Construction Official is
designated the Floodplain Administrator. The Floodplain Administrator shall
have the authority to delegate performance of certain duties to other
employees.
   B.   General. The Floodplain Administrator is authorized and directed to
administer the provisions of these regulations. The Floodplain Administrator
shall have the authority to render interpretations of these regulations
consistent with the intent and purpose of these regulations and to establish
policies and procedures in order to clarify the application of its provisions.
Such interpretations, policies and procedures shall be consistent with the
intent and purpose of these regulations and the flood provisions of the
building code and shall not have the effect of waiving specific requirements
without the granting of a variance pursuant to §§
147-19 and
147-20 of these regulations.
   C.   Coordination. The Floodplain Administrator shall coordinate with the
Construction Official to administer and enforce the flood provisions of the
Uniform Construction Code.
   D.   Duties. The duties of the Floodplain Administrator shall include but
are not limited to:
      (1)   Review all permit applications to determine whether proposed
development is located in flood hazard areas established in §
147-5 of these regulations.
      (2)   Require development in flood hazard areas to be reasonably safe
from flooding and to be designed and constructed with methods, practices and
materials that minimize flood damage.
      (3)   Interpret flood hazard area boundaries and provide available flood
elevation and flood hazard information.
      (4)   Determine whether additional flood hazard data shall be obtained or
developed.
      (5)   Review required certifications and documentation specified by these
regulations and the building code to determine that such certifications and
documentations are complete.
      (6)   Establish, in coordination with the Construction Official, written
procedures for administering and documenting determinations of substantial
improvement and substantial damage made pursuant to §
147-14(M) of these regulations.
      (7)   Coordinate with the Construction Official and others to identify
and investigate damaged buildings located in flood hazard areas and inform
owners of the requirement to obtain permits for repairs.
      (8)   Review requests submitted to the Construction Official seeking
approval to modify the strict application of the flood load and flood resistant
construction requirements of the Uniform Construction code to determine whether
such requests require consideration as a variance pursuant to §§
147-19 and
147-20 of these regulations.
      (9)   Require applicants who submit hydrologic and hydraulic engineering
analyses to support permit applications to submit to FEMA the data and
information necessary to maintain the Flood Insurance Rate Maps when the
analyses propose to change base flood elevations, flood hazard area boundaries,
or floodway designations; such submissions shall be made within six months of
such data becoming available.
      (10)   Require applicants who propose alteration of a watercourse to
notify adjacent jurisdictions and the NJDEP Bureau of Flood Engineering, and to
submit copies of such notifications to the Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA).
      (11)   Inspect development in accordance with §
147-17 of these regulations and inspect flood hazard areas to determine if
development is undertaken without issuance of permits.
      (12)   Prepare comments and recommendations for consideration when
applicants seek variances in accordance with §§
147-19 and
147-20 of these regulations.
      (13)   Cite violations in accordance with §
147-21 of these regulations.
      (14)   Notify the Federal Emergency Management Agency when the corporate
boundaries of the Town of Hammonton have been modified.
      (15)   Permit ordinary maintenance and minor work in the regulated areas
discussed in §
147-5.
   E.   Use of changed technical data. The Floodplain Administrator and the
applicant shall not use changed flood hazard area boundaries or base flood
elevations for proposed buildings or developments unless the Floodplain
Administrator or applicant has applied for a Conditional Letter of Map Revision
(CLOMR) to the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) revision and has received the
approval of the Federal Emergency Management Agency. A revision of the
effective FIRM does not remove the related feature(s) on a flood hazard area
delineation that has been promulgated by the NJDEP. A separate application must
be made to the State pursuant to N.J.A.C. 7:13 for revision of a flood hazard
design flood elevation, flood hazard area limit, floodway limit, and/or other
related feature.
   F.   Other permits. It shall be the responsibility of the Floodplain
Administrator to assure that approval of a proposed development shall not be
given until proof that necessary permits have been granted by Federal or State
agencies having jurisdiction over such development, including section 404 of
the Clean Water Act. In the event of conflicting permit requirements, the
Floodplain Administrator must ensure that the most restrictive floodplain
management standards are reflected in permit approvals.
   G.   Determination of Local Design Flood Elevations. If design flood
elevations are not specified, the Floodplain Administrator is authorized to
require the applicant to:
      (1)   Obtain, review, and reasonably utilize data available from a
Federal, State, or other source, or
      (2)   Determine the design flood elevation in accordance with accepted
hydrologic and hydraulic engineering techniques. Such analyses shall be
performed and sealed by a licensed professional engineer. Studies, analyses,
and computations shall be submitted in sufficient detail to allow review and
approval by the Floodplain Administrator. The accuracy of data submitted for
such determination shall be the responsibility of the applicant.
   It shall be the responsibility of the Floodplain Administrator to verify
that the applicant's proposed Best Available Flood Hazard Data Area and the
Local Design Flood Elevation in any development permit accurately applies the
best available flood hazard data and methodologies for determining flood hazard
areas and design elevations described in §§
147-5 and
147-6 respectively. This information shall be provided to the Construction
Official and documented according to §
147-14(N).
   H.   Requirement to submit new technical data. Base Flood Elevations may
increase or decrease resulting from natural changes (e.g. erosion, accretion,
channel migration, subsidence, uplift) or man-made physical changes (e.g.
dredging, filling, excavation) affecting flooding conditions. As soon as
practicable, but not later than six months after the date of a man-made change
or when information about a natural change becomes available, the Floodplain
Administrator shall notify the Federal Insurance Administrator of the changes
by submitting technical or scientific data in accordance with Title 44 Code of
Federal Regulations Section 65.3. Such a submission is necessary so that upon
confirmation of those physical changes affecting flooding conditions, risk
premium rates and floodplain management requirements will be based upon current
data.
   I.   Activities in riverine flood hazard areas. In riverine flood hazard
areas where design flood elevations are specified but floodways have not been
designated, the Floodplain Administrator shall not permit any new construction,
substantial improvement or other development, including the placement of fill,
unless the applicant submits an engineering analysis prepared by a licensed
professional engineer that demonstrates that the cumulative effect of the
proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated
flood hazard area encroachment, will not increase the design flood elevation
more than 0.2 feet at any point within the community.
   J.   Floodway encroachment. Prior to issuing a permit for any floodway
encroachment, including fill, new construction, substantial improvements and
other development or land- disturbing-activity, the Floodplain Administrator
shall require submission of a certification prepared by a licensed professional
engineer, along with supporting technical data, that demonstrates that such
development will not cause any increase in the base flood level.
      (1)   Floodway revisions. A floodway encroachment that increases the
level of the base flood is authorized if the applicant has applied for a
Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR) to the Flood Insurance Rate Map
(FIRM) and has received the approval of FEMA.
   K.   Watercourse alteration. Prior to issuing a permit for any alteration or
relocation of any watercourse, the Floodplain Administrator shall require the
applicant to provide notification of the proposal to the appropriate
authorities of all adjacent government jurisdictions, as well as the NJDEP
Bureau of Flood Engineering and the Division of Land Resource Protection. A
copy of the notification shall be maintained in the permit records and
submitted to FEMA.
      (1)   Engineering analysis. The Floodplain Administrator shall require
submission of an engineering analysis prepared by a licensed professional
engineer, demonstrating that the flood-carrying capacity of the altered or
relocated portion of the watercourse will be maintained, neither increased nor
decreased. Such watercourses shall be maintained in a manner that preserves the
channel's flood-carrying capacity.
   L.   Development in riparian zones All development in Riparian Zones as
described in N.J.A.C. 7:13 is prohibited by this chapter unless the applicant
has received an individual or general permit or has complied with the
requirements of a permit by rule or permit by certification from NJDEP Division
of Land Resource Protection prior to application for a floodplain development
permit and the project is compliant with all other Floodplain Development
provisions of this chapter. The width of the riparian zone can range between 50
and 300 feet and is determined by the attributes of the waterbody and
designated in the New Jersey Surface Water Quality Standards N.J.A.C. 7:9B. The
portion of the riparian zone located outside of a regulated water is measured
landward from the top of bank. Applicants can request a verification of the
riparian zone limits or a permit applicability determination to determine State
permit requirements under N.J.A.C. 7:13 from the NJDEP Division of Land
Resource Protection.
   M.   Substantial improvement and substantial damage determinations. When
buildings and structures are damaged due to any cause including but not limited
to man-made, structural, electrical, mechanical, or natural hazard events, or
are determined to be unsafe as described in N.J.A.C. 5:23; and for applications
for building permits to improve buildings and structures, including
alterations, movement, repair, additions, rehabilitations, renovations,
ordinary maintenance and minor work, substantial improvements, repairs of
substantial damage, and any other improvement of or work on such buildings and
structures, the Floodplain Administrator, in coordination with the Construction
Official, shall:
      (1)   Estimate the market value, or require the applicant to obtain a
professional appraisal prepared by a qualified independent appraiser, of the
market value of the building or structure before the start of construction of
the proposed work; in the case of repair, the market value of the building or
structure shall be the market value before the damage occurred and before any
repairs are made.
      (2)   Determine and include the costs of all ordinary maintenance and
minor work, as discussed in Section 102.2, performed in the floodplain
regulated by this chapter in addition to the costs of those improvements
regulated by the Construction Official in substantial damage and substantial
improvement calculations.
      (3)   Compare the cost to perform the improvement, the cost to repair the
damaged building to its pre-damaged condition, or the combined costs of
improvements and repairs, where applicable, to the market value of the building
or structure.
      (4)   Determine and document whether the proposed work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage.
      (5)   Notify the applicant in writing when it is determined that the work
constitutes substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage and that
compliance with the flood resistant construction requirements of the building
code is required and notify the applicant in writing when it is determined that
work does not constitute substantial improvement or repair of substantial
damage. The Floodplain Administrator shall also provide all letters documenting
substantial damage and compliance with flood resistant construction
requirements of the building code to the NJDEP Bureau of Flood Engineering.
   N.   Department records. In addition to the requirements of the building
code and these regulations, and regardless of any limitation on the period
required for retention of public records, the Floodplain Administrator shall
maintain and permanently keep and make available for public inspection all
records that are necessary for the administration of these regulations and the
flood provisions of the Uniform Construction Code, including Flood Insurance
Studies, Flood Insurance Rate Maps; documents from FEMA that amend or revise
FIRMs; NJDEP delineations, records of issuance of permits and denial of
permits; records of ordinary maintenance and minor work, determinations of
whether proposed work constitutes substantial improvement or repair of
substantial damage; required certifications and documentation specified by the
Uniform Construction Code and these regulations including as-built Elevation
Certificates; notifications to adjacent communities, FEMA, and the State
related to alterations of watercourses; assurance that the flood carrying
capacity of altered waterways will be maintained; documentation related to
variances, including justification for issuance or denial; and records of
enforcement actions taken pursuant to these regulations and the flood resistant
provisions of the Uniform Construction Code. The Floodplain Administrator shall
also record the required elevation, determination method, and base flood
elevation source used to determine the Local Design Flood Elevation in the
floodplain development permit.
   O.   Liability. The Floodplain Administrator and any employee charged with
the enforcement of these regulations, while acting for the jurisdiction in good
faith and without malice in the discharge of the duties required by these
regulations or other pertinent law or ordinance, shall not thereby be rendered
liable personally and is hereby relieved from personal liability for any damage
accruing to persons or property as a result of any act or by reason of an act
or omission in the discharge of official duties. Any suit instituted against an
officer or employee because of an act performed by that officer or employee in
the lawful discharge of duties and under the provisions of these regulations
shall be defended by legal representative of the jurisdiction until the final
termination of the proceedings. The Floodplain Administrator and any
subordinate shall not be liable for cost in any action, suit or proceeding that
is instituted in pursuance of the provisions of these regulations.
§ 147-15. Development permits.
[Amended 8-27-2018 by Ord. No. 29-2018; 3-28-2022 by Ord. No. 007-2022]
   A.   Permits Required. Any person, owner or authorized agent who intends to
conduct any development in a flood hazard area shall first make application to
the Floodplain Administrator and shall obtain the required permit. Depending on
the nature and extent of proposed development that includes a building or
structure, the Floodplain Administrator may determine that a floodplain
development permit or approval is required in addition to a building permit.
   B.   Application for permit. The applicant shall file an application in
writing on a form furnished by the Floodplain Administrator. Such application
shall:
      (1)   Identify and describe the development to be covered by the permit.
      (2)   Describe the land on which the proposed development is to be
conducted by legal description, street address or similar description that will
readily identify and definitively locate the site.
      (3)   Indicate the use and occupancy for which the proposed development
is intended.
      (4)   Be accompanied by a site plan and construction documents as
specified in §
147-16 of these regulations, grading and filling plans and other information
deemed appropriate by the Floodplain Administrator.
      (5)   State the valuation of the proposed work, including the valuation
of ordinary maintenance and minor work.
      (6)   Be signed by the applicant or the applicant's authorized agent.
   C.   Validity of permit. The issuance of a permit under these regulations or
the Uniform Construction Code shall not be construed to be a permit for, or
approval of, any violation of this appendix or any other ordinance of the
jurisdiction. The issuance of a permit based on submitted documents and
information shall not prevent the Floodplain Administrator from requiring the
correction of errors. The Floodplain Administrator is authorized to prevent
occupancy or use of a structure or site which is in violation of these
regulations or other ordinances of this jurisdiction.
   D.   Expiration. A permit shall become invalid when the proposed development
is not commenced within 180 days after its issuance, or when the work
authorized is suspended or abandoned for a period of 180 days after the work
commences. Extensions shall be requested in writing and justifiable cause
demonstrated. The Floodplain Administrator is authorized to grant, in writing,
one or more extensions of time, for periods not more than 180 days each.
   E.   Suspension or revocation. The Floodplain Administrator is authorized to
suspend or revoke a permit issued under these regulations wherever the permit
is issued in error or on the basis of incorrect, inaccurate or incomplete
information, or in violation of any ordinance or code of this jurisdiction.
§ 147-16. Site plans and construction documents.
[Added 3-28-2022 by Ord. No. 007-2022]
   A.   Information for development in flood hazard areas. The site plan or
construction documents for any development subject to the requirements of these
regulations shall be drawn to scale and shall include, as applicable to the
proposed development:
      (1)   Delineation of flood hazard areas, floodway boundaries and flood
zone(s), base flood elevation(s), and ground elevations when necessary for
review of the proposed development. For buildings that are located in more than
one flood hazard area, the elevation and provisions associated with the most
restrictive flood hazard area shall apply.
      (2)   Where base flood elevations or floodway data are not included on
the FIRM or in the Flood Insurance Study, they shall be established in
accordance with §
147-16(B).
      (3)   Where the parcel on which the proposed development will take place
will have more than 50 lots or is larger than five acres and base flood
elevations are not included on the FIRM or in the Flood Insurance Study, such
elevations shall be established in accordance with §
147-16(B)(3) of these regulations.
      (4)   Location of the proposed activity and proposed structures, and
locations of existing buildings and structures; in coastal high hazard areas
and Coastal A zones, new buildings shall be located landward of the reach of
mean high tide.
      (5)   Location, extent, amount, and proposed final grades of any filling,
grading, or excavation.
      (6)   Where the placement of fill is proposed, the amount, type, and
source of fill material; compaction specifications; a description of the
intended purpose of the fill areas; and evidence that the proposed fill areas
are the minimum necessary to achieve the intended purpose. The applicant shall
provide an engineering certification confirming that the proposal meets the
flood storage displacement limitations of N.J.A.C. 7:13.
      (7)   Extent of any proposed alteration of sand dunes.
      (8)   Existing and proposed alignment of any proposed alteration of a
watercourse.
      (9)   Floodproofing certifications, V Zone and Breakaway Wall
Certifications, Operations and Maintenance Plans, Warning and Evacuation Plans
and other documentation required pursuant to FEMA publications.
   The Floodplain Administrator is authorized to waive the submission of site
plans, construction documents, and other data that are required by these
regulations but that are not required to be prepared by a registered design
professional when it is found that the nature of the proposed development is
such that the review of such submissions is not necessary to ascertain
compliance.
   B.   Information in flood hazard areas without base flood elevations
(approximate Zone A). Where flood hazard areas are delineated on the effective
or preliminary FIRM and base flood elevation data have not been provided, the
applicant shall consult with the Floodplain Administrator to determine whether
to:
      (1)   Use the Approximation Method (Method 5) described in N.J.A.C. 7:13
in conjunction with Appendix 1 of the FHACA to determine the required flood
elevation.
      (2)   Obtain, review, and reasonably utilize data available from a
Federal, State or other source when those data are deemed acceptable to the
Floodplain Administrator to reasonably reflect flooding conditions.
      (3)   Determine the base flood elevation in accordance with accepted
hydrologic and hydraulic engineering techniques according to Method 6 as
described in N.J.A.C. 7:13. Such analyses shall be performed and sealed by a
licensed professional engineer.
   Studies, analyses, and computations shall be submitted in sufficient detail
to allow review and approval by the Floodplain Administrator prior to
floodplain development permit issuance. The accuracy of data submitted for such
determination shall be the responsibility of the applicant. Where the data are
to be used to support a Letter of Map Change (LOMC) from FEMA, the applicant
shall be responsible for satisfying the submittal requirements and pay the
processing fees.
   C.   Analyses and certifications by a Licensed Professional Engineer. As
applicable to the location and nature of the proposed development activity, and
in addition to the requirements of this section, the applicant shall have the
following analyses signed and sealed by a licensed professional engineer for
submission with the site plan and construction documents:
      (1)   For development activities proposed to be located in a regulatory
floodway, a floodway encroachment analysis that demonstrates that the
encroachment of the proposed development will not cause any increase in base
flood elevations; where the applicant proposes to undertake development
activities that do increase base flood elevations, the applicant shall submit
such analysis to FEMA as specified in §
147-16(D) of these regulations and shall submit the Conditional Letter of Map
Revision, if issued by FEMA, with the site plan and construction documents.
      (2)   For development activities proposed to be located in a riverine
flood hazard area where base flood elevations are included in the FIS or FIRM
but floodways have not been designated, hydrologic and hydraulic analyses that
demonstrate that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when
combined with all other existing and anticipated flood hazard area
encroachments will not increase the base flood elevation more than 0.2 feet at
any point within the jurisdiction. This requirement does not apply in isolated
flood hazard areas not connected to a riverine flood hazard area or in flood
hazard areas identified as Zone AO or Zone AH.
      (3)   For alteration of a watercourse, an engineering analysis prepared
in accordance with standard engineering practices which demonstrates that the
flood-carrying capacity of the altered or relocated portion of the watercourse
will not be decreased, and certification that the altered watercourse shall be
maintained, neither increasing nor decreasing the channel's flood-carrying
capacity. The applicant shall submit the analysis to FEMA as specified in §
147-16(D) of these regulations. The applicant shall notify the chief executive
officer of all affected adjacent jurisdictions, the NJDEP's Bureau of Flood
Engineering and the Division of Land Resource Protection; and shall provide
documentation of such notifications.
      (4)   For activities that propose to alter sand dunes in coastal high
hazard areas (Zone V) and Coastal A Zones, an engineering analysis that
demonstrates that the proposed alteration will not increase the potential for
flood damage and documentation of the issuance of a New Jersey Coastal Zone
Management permit under N.J.A.C. 7:7.
      (5)   For analyses performed using Methods 5 and 6 (as described in
N.J.A.C. 7:13) in flood hazard zones without base flood elevations (approximate
A zones).
   D.   Submission of additional data. When additional hydrologic, hydraulic or
other engineering data, studies, and additional analyses are submitted to
support an application, the applicant has the right to seek a Letter of Map
Change (LOMC) from FEMA to change the base flood elevations, change floodway
boundaries, or change boundaries of flood hazard areas shown on FIRMs, and to
submit such data to FEMA for such purposes. The analyses shall be prepared by a
licensed professional engineer in a format required by FEMA. Submittal
requirements and processing fees shall be the responsibility of the applicant.
§ 147-17. Inspections.
[Added 3-28-2022 by Ord. No. 007-2022]
   A.   General. Development for which a permit is required shall be subject to
inspection. Approval as a result of an inspection shall not be construed to be
an approval of a violation of the provisions of these regulations or the
building code. Inspections presuming to give authority to violate or cancel the
provisions of these regulations or the building code or other ordinances shall
not be valid.
   B.   Inspections of development. The Floodplain Administrator shall inspect
all development in flood hazard areas authorized by issuance of permits under
these regulations. The Floodplain Administrator shall inspect flood hazard
areas from time to time to determine if development is undertaken without
issuance of a permit.
   C.   Buildings and structures. The Construction Official shall make or cause
to be made, inspections for buildings and structures in flood hazard areas
authorized by permit in accordance with the Uniform Construction Code, N.J.A.C.
5:23.
      (1)   Lowest floor elevation. Upon placement of the lowest floor,
including the basement, and prior to further vertical construction,
certification of the elevation required in §
147-22(F)(2) shall be submitted to the Construction Official on an Elevation
Certificate.
      (2)   Lowest horizontal structural member. In V zones and Coastal A
zones, upon placement of the lowest floor, including the basement, and prior to
further vertical construction, certification of the elevation required in §
147-22(F)(2) shall be submitted to the Construction Official on an Elevation
Certificate.
      (3)   Installation of attendant utilities (electrical, heating,
ventilating, air-conditioning, and other service equipment) and sanitary
facilities elevated as discussed in §
147-22(F)(2).
      (4)   Final inspection. Prior to the final inspection, certification of
the elevation required in §
147-22(F)(2) shall be submitted to the Construction Official on an Elevation
Certificate.
   D.   Manufactured homes. The Floodplain Administrator shall inspect
manufactured homes that are installed or replaced in flood hazard areas to
determine compliance with the requirements of these regulations and the
conditions of the issued permit. Upon placement of a manufactured home,
certification of the elevation of the lowest floor shall be submitted on an
Elevation Certificate to the Floodplain Administrator prior to the final
inspection.
§ 147-18. Interpretation of FIRM boundaries.
[Amended 3-28-2022 by Ord. No. 007-2022]
The Floodplain Administrator shall make interpretations, where needed, as to
the exact location of the boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard (for
example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and
actual field conditions). The person contesting the location of the boundary
shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation as
provided in §
147-19.
§ 147-19. Appeal Board.
[Amended 3-28-2022 by Ord. No. 007-2022]
   A.   Appeal Board.
      (1)   The Town Planning Board, as established by the Town of Hammonton,
shall hear and decide appeals and requests for variances from the requirements
of this chapter.
      (2)   The Town Planning Board shall hear and decide appeals when it is
alleged that there is an error in any requirement, decision or determination
made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or administration of
this chapter.
      (3)   Those aggrieved by the decision of the Town Planning Board, or any
taxpayer, may appeal such decision to the Mayor and Council pursuant to
N.J.S.A. 40:55D-26b.
      (4)   In passing upon such applications, the Planning Board shall
consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, standards specified
in other sections of this chapter and:
         (a)   The danger that materials and debris may be swept onto other
lands resulting in further injury or damage.
         (b)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage.
         (c)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the current and future owners.
         (d)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed
development to the community.
         (e)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable.
         (f)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use
which are not subject to flooding or erosion damage.
         (g)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development.
         (h)   The relationship of the proposed use to the Comprehensive Plan
and floodplain management program of that area.
         (i)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles.
          (j)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site.
         (k)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems and streets and
bridges.
   B.   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all appeal
actions, including technical information, and report any variances to the
Federal Insurance Administration upon request.
§ 147-20. Conditions for variances.
[Amended 3-28-2022 by Ord. No. 007-2022]
   A.   Variances shall only be issued upon:
      (1)   Submission by the applicant of a showing of good and sufficient
cause that the unique characteristics of the size, configuration or topography
of the site limit compliance with any provision of these regulations or renders
the elevation standards of the building code inappropriate.
      (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship due to the physical characteristics of the land that
render the lot undevelopable.
      (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, nor create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (4)   A determination that the variance is the minimum necessary,
considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
      (5)   Notification to the applicant in writing over the signature of the
Floodplain Administrator that the issuance of a variance to construct a
structure below the base flood level will result in increased premium rates for
flood insurance up to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage,
and that such construction below the base flood level increases risks to life
and property.
   B.   The Town of Hammonton Planning Board may attach such conditions to the
granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of this
chapter.
§ 147-21. Violations.
[Added 3-28-2022 by Ord. No. 007-2022]
   A.   Violations. Any development in any flood hazard area that is being
performed without an issued permit or that is in conflict with an issued permit
shall be deemed a violation. A building or structure without the documentation
of elevation of the lowest floor, the lowest horizontal structural member if in
a V or Coastal A Zone, other required design certifications, or other evidence
of compliance required by the building code is presumed to be a violation until
such time as that documentation is provided.
   B.   Authority. The Floodplain Administrator is authorized to serve notices
of violation or stop work orders to owners of property involved, to the owner's
agent, or to the person or persons doing the work for development that is not
within the scope of the Uniform Construction Code, but is regulated by these
regulations and that is determined to be a violation.
   C.   Unlawful continuance. Any person who shall continue any work after
having been served with a notice of violation or a stop work order, except such
work as that person is directed to perform to remove or remedy a violation or
unsafe condition, shall be subject to penalties as prescribed by N.J.S.A. 40:
49-5 as appropriate.
   D.   Review Period to Correct Violations. A 30-day period shall be given to
the property owner as an opportunity to cure or abate the condition. The
property owner shall also be afforded an opportunity for a hearing before the
court for an independent determination concerning the violation. Subsequent to
the expiration of the 30-day period, a fine greater than $1,250 may be imposed
if a court has not determined otherwise or, upon reinspection of the property,
it is determined that the abatement has not been substantially completed.
§ 147-22. Standards for flood hazard reduction.
[Amended 8-27-2018 by Ord. No. 29-2018; 9-24-2018 by Ord. No. 40-2018; 3-28-
2022 by Ord. No. 007-2022]
   A.   Subdivisions and other developments.
      (1)   Any subdivision proposal, including proposals for manufactured home
parks and subdivisions, or other proposed new development in a flood hazard
area shall be reviewed to assure that:
         (a)   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize
flood damage.
         (b)   All public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas,
electric and water systems are located and constructed to minimize or eliminate
flood damage.
         (c)   Adequate drainage is provided to reduce exposure to flood
hazards; in Zones AH and AO, adequate drainage paths shall be provided to guide
floodwater around and away from structures.
      (2)   Where any portion of proposed subdivisions, including manufactured
home parks and subdivisions, lies within a flood hazard area, the following
shall be required:
         (a)   The flood hazard area, including floodways, coastal high hazard
areas, and Coastal A Zones, and base flood elevations, as appropriate, shall be
delineated on tentative subdivision plats.
         (b)   Residential building lots shall be provided with adequate
buildable area outside the floodway.
         (c)   The design criteria for utilities and facilities set forth in
these regulations and appropriate codes shall be met.
   B.   Site improvement.
      (1)   Encroachment in floodways. Development, land disturbing activity,
and encroachments in floodways shall not be authorized unless it has been
demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic analyses required in accordance
with §
147-16(C)(1) of these regulations, that the proposed encroachment will not
result in any increase in the base flood level during occurrence of the base
flood discharge. If Section 105.3(1) is satisfied, proposed elevation,
addition, or reconstruction of a lawfully existing structure within a floodway
shall also be in accordance with §
147-22(F)(2) of this chapter and the floodway requirements of N.J.A.C. 7:13.
      (2)   Prohibited in floodways. The following are prohibited activities:
         (a)   The storage of unsecured materials is prohibited within a
floodway pursuant to N.J.A.C. 7:13.
         (b)   Fill and new structures are prohibited in floodways per N.J.A.C.
7:13.
      (3)   Sewer facilities. All new and replaced sanitary sewer facilities,
private sewage treatment plants (including all pumping stations and collector
systems) and on-site waste disposal systems shall be designed in accordance
with the New Jersey septic system regulations contained in N.J.A.C. 14A and
N.J.A.C. 7:9A, the UCC Plumbing Subcode (N.J.A.C. 5:23) and Chapter 7, ASCE 24,
to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwater into the facilities and
discharge from the facilities into flood waters, or impairment of the
facilities and systems.
      (4)   Water facilities. All new and replacement water facilities shall be
designed in accordance with the New Jersey Safe Drinking Water Act (N.J.A.C. 7:
10) and the provisions of Chapter 7, ASCE 24, to minimize or eliminate
infiltration of floodwater into the systems.
      (5)   Storm drainage. Storm drainage shall be designed to convey the flow
of surface waters to minimize or eliminate damage to persons or property.
      (6)   Streets and sidewalks. Streets and sidewalks shall be designed to
minimize potential for increasing or aggravating flood levels.
      (7)   Limitations on placement of fill. Subject to the limitations of
these regulations, fill shall be designed to be stable under conditions of
flooding including rapid rise and rapid drawdown of floodwater, prolonged
inundation, and protection against flood-related erosion and scour. In addition
to these requirements, when intended to support buildings and structures (Zone
A only), fill shall comply with the requirements of the UCC (N.J.A.C. 5:23).
Proposed fill and encroachments in flood hazard areas shall comply with the
flood storage displacement limitations of N.J.A.C. 7:13.
      (8)   Hazardous materials. The placement or storage of any containers
holding hazardous substances in a flood hazard area is prohibited unless the
provisions of N.J.A.C.7:13 which cover the placement of hazardous substances
and solid waste is met.
   C.   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   General. All manufactured homes installed in flood hazard areas
shall be installed pursuant to the Nationally Preemptive Manufactured Home
Construction and Safety Standards Program (24 CFR 3280).
      (2)   Elevation. All new, relocated, and replacement manufactured homes
to be placed or substantially improved in a flood hazard area shall be elevated
such that the bottom of the frame is elevated to or above the elevation
specified in §
147-22(F)(2).
      (3)   Foundations. All new, relocated, and replacement manufactured
homes, including substantial improvement of existing manufactured homes, shall
be placed on permanent, reinforced foundations that are designed in accordance
with Section R322 of the Residential Code.
      (4)   Anchoring. All new, relocated, and replacement manufactured homes
to be placed or substantially improved in a flood hazard area shall be
installed using methods and practices which minimize flood damage and shall be
securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse and lateral movement. This requirement is in addition to
applicable State and local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
      (5)   Enclosures. Fully enclosed areas below elevated manufactured homes
shall comply with the requirements of §
147-22(F)(2).
      (6)   Protection of mechanical equipment and outside appliances.
Mechanical equipment and outside appliances shall be elevated to or above the
elevation of the bottom of the frame required in §
147-22(F)(2) of these regulations.
         (a)   Exception. Where such equipment and appliances are designed and
installed to prevent water from entering or accumulating within their
components and the systems are constructed to resist hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and stresses, including the effects of buoyancy, during the
occurrence of flooding up to the elevation required by §
147-22(F)(2), the systems and equipment shall be permitted to be located below
that elevation. Electrical wiring systems shall be permitted below the design
flood elevation provided they conform to the provisions of NFPA 70 (National
Electric Code).
   D.   Recreational vehicles.
      (1)   Placement prohibited. The placement of recreational vehicles shall
not be authorized in coastal high hazard areas and in floodways.
      (2)   Temporary placement. Recreational vehicles in flood hazard areas
shall be fully licensed and ready for highway use and shall be placed on a site
for less than 180 consecutive days.
      (3)   Permanent placement. Recreational vehicles that are not fully
licensed and ready for highway use, or that are to be placed on a site for more
than 180 consecutive days, shall meet the requirements of §
147-22(F)(2) for habitable buildings.
   E.   Underground and above ground storage tanks. Underground and above-
ground tanks shall be designed, constructed, installed, and anchored in
accordance with ASCE 24 and N.J.A.C. 7:13.
   F.   Other development and building work.
      (1)   General requirements for other development and building work. All
development and building work, including man-made changes to improved or
unimproved real estate for which specific provisions are not specified in these
regulations or the Uniform Construction Code (N.J.A.C. 5:23), shall:
         (a)   Be located and constructed to minimize flood damage;
         (b)   Meet the limitations of §
147-16(C)(1) of this chapter when located in a regulated floodway;
         (c)   Be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement
resulting from hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads, including the effects of
buoyancy, during the conditions of flooding up to the Local Design Flood
Elevation determined according to §
147-6;
         (d)   Be constructed of flood damage-resistant materials as described
in ASCE 24 Chapter 5;
         (e)   Have mechanical, plumbing, and electrical systems above the
Local Design Flood Elevation determined according to §
147-6 or meet the requirements of ASCE 24 Chapter 7 which requires that
attendant utilities are located above the Local Design Flood Elevation unless
the attendant utilities and equipment are:
            [1]   Specifically allowed below the Local Design Flood Elevation;
and
            [2]   Designed, constructed, and installed to prevent floodwaters,
including any backflow through the system from entering or accumulating within
the components.
         (f)   Not exceed the flood storage displacement limitations in fluvial
flood hazard areas in accordance with N.J.A.C. 7:13; and
         (g)   Not exceed the impacts to frequency or depth of offsite flooding
as required by N.J.A.C. 7:13 in floodways.
      (2)   Requirements for habitable buildings and structures.
         (a)   Construction and elevation in A Zones not including Coastal A
Zones.
            [1]   No portion of a building is located within a V Zone.
            [2]   No portion of a building is located within a Coastal A Zone,
unless a licensed design professional certifies that the building's foundation
is designed in accordance with ASCE 24, Chapter 4.
            [3]   All new construction and substantial improvement of any
habitable building (as defined in Section 201) located in flood hazard areas
shall have the lowest floor, including basement, together with the attendant
utilities (including all electrical, heating, ventilating, air-conditioning and
other service equipment) and sanitary facilities, elevated to or above the
Local Design Flood Elevation as determined in §
147-6, be in conformance with ASCE Chapter 7, and be confirmed by an Elevation
Certificate.
            [4]   All new construction and substantial improvements of non-
residential structures shall:
                [a]   Have the lowest floor, including basement, together with
the attendant utilities (including all electrical, heating, ventilating, air-
conditioning and other service equipment) and sanitary facilities, elevated to
or above the Local Design Flood Elevation as determined in §
147-6, be in conformance with ASCE Chapter 7, and be confirmed by an Elevation
Certificate; or
               [b]   Together with the attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, be designed so that below the Local Design Flood Elevation, the
structure:
                  [i]   Meets the requirements of ASCE 24 Chapters 2 and 7; and
                  [ii]   Is constructed according to the design plans and
specifications provided at permit application and signed by a licensed design
professional, is certified by that individual in a Floodproofing Certificate,
and is confirmed by an Elevation Certificate.
            [5]   All new construction and substantial improvements with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor shall be used solely for parking of
vehicles, building access, or storage in an area other than a basement and
which are subject to flooding. Enclosures shall:
               [a]   For habitable structures, be situated at or above the
adjoining exterior grade along at least one entire exterior wall, in order to
provide positive drainage of the enclosed area in accordance with N.J.A.C. 7:
13; enclosures (including crawlspaces and basements) which are below grade on
all sides are prohibited;
               [b]   Be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood
forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters
unless the structure is non-residential and the requirements of
147-22(F)(2)(a)[4][b] are met;
               [c]   Be constructed to meet the requirements of ASCE 24 Chapter
2;
               [d]   Have openings documented on an Elevation Certificate; and
               [e]   Have documentation that a deed restriction has been
obtained for the lot if the enclosure is greater than six feet in height. This
deed restriction shall be recorded in the Office of the County Clerk or the
Registrar of Deeds and Mortgages in which the building is located, shall
conform to the requirements in N.J.A.C. 7:13, and shall be recorded within 90
days of receiving a Flood Hazard Area Control Act permit or prior to the start
of any site disturbance (including pre-construction earth movement, removal of
vegetation and structures, or construction of the project), whichever is
sooner. Deed restrictions must explain and disclose that:
                  [i]   The enclosure is likely to be inundated by floodwaters
which may result in damage and/or inconvenience;
                  [ii]   The depth of flooding that the enclosure would
experience to the Flood Hazard Area Design Flood Elevation; and
                  [iii]   The deed restriction prohibits habitation of the
enclosure and explains that converting the enclosure into a habitable area may
subject the property owner to enforcement.
      (3)   Garages and accessory storage structures. Garages and accessory
storage structures shall be designed and constructed in accordance with the
Uniform Construction Code.
   (4)   Fences. Fences in floodways that have the potential to block the
passage of floodwater, such as stockade fences and wire mesh fences, shall meet
the requirements of §
147-16(C)(1) of these regulations. Pursuant to N.J.A.C. 7:13, any fence located
in a floodway shall have sufficiently large openings so as not to catch debris
during a flood and thereby obstruct floodwaters, such as barbed-wire, split-
rail, or strand fence. A fence with little or no open area, such as a chain
link, lattice, or picket fence, does not meet this requirement. Foundations for
fences greater than six feet in height must conform with the Uniform
Construction Code. Fences for pool enclosures having openings not in
conformance with this section but in conformance with the Uniform Construction
Code to limit climbing require a variance as described in Section 107 of this
chapter.
      (5)   Retaining walls, sidewalks, and driveways. Retaining walls,
sidewalks and driveways that involve placement of fill in floodways shall meet
the requirements of §
147-16(C)(1) of these regulations and N.J.A.C. 7:13.
      (6)   Swimming pools. Swimming pools shall be designed and constructed in
accordance with the Uniform Construction Code. Above-ground swimming pools and
below-ground swimming pools that involve placement of fill in floodways shall
also meet the requirements of §
147-16(C)(1) of these regulations. Above-ground swimming pools are prohibited
in floodways by N.J.A.C. 7:13.
      (7)   Roads and watercourse crossings.
         (a)   For any railroad, roadway, or parking area proposed in a flood
hazard area, the travel surface shall be constructed at least one foot above
the Flood Hazard Area Design Elevation in accordance with N.J.A.C. 7:13.
         (b)   Roads and watercourse crossings that encroach into regulated
floodways or riverine waterways with base flood elevations where floodways have
not been designated, including roads, bridges, culverts, low-water crossings
and similar means for vehicles or pedestrians to travel from one side of a
watercourse to the other side, shall meet the requirements of §
147-16(C)(1) of these regulations.
   G.   Temporary structures and temporary storage.
      (1)   Temporary structures. Temporary structures shall be erected for a
period of less than 180 days. Temporary structures shall be anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse or lateral movement resulting from hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy, during conditions of the base flood. Fully
enclosed temporary structures shall have flood openings that are in accordance
with ASCE 24 to allow for the automatic entry and exit of flood waters.
      (2)   Temporary storage. Temporary storage includes storage of goods and
materials for a period of less than 180 days. Stored materials shall not
include hazardous materials.
      (3)   Floodway encroachment. Temporary structures and temporary storage
in floodways shall meet the requirements of §
147-16(C)(1) of these regulations.
   H.   Utility and miscellaneous Group U.
      (1)   Utility and miscellaneous Group U. In accordance with Section 312
of the International Building Code, Utility and miscellaneous Group U includes
buildings and structures that are accessory in character and miscellaneous
structures not classified in any specific occupancy in the Building Code,
including, but not limited to, agricultural buildings, aircraft hangars
(accessory to a one- or two-family residence), barns, carports, communication
equipment structures (gross floor area less than 1,500 sq. ft.), fences more
than six feet (1,829 mm) high, grain silos (accessory to a residential
occupancy), livestock shelters, private garages, retaining walls, sheds,
stables, tanks and towers.
      (2)   Flood loads. Utility and miscellaneous Group U buildings and
structures, including substantial improvement of such buildings and structures,
shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement resulting
from flood loads, including the effects of buoyancy, during conditions up to
the Local Design Flood Elevation as determined in §
147-6.
      (3)   Elevation. Utility and miscellaneous Group U buildings and
structures, including substantial improvement of such buildings and structures,
shall be elevated such that the lowest floor, including basement, is elevated
to or above the Local Design Flood Elevation as determined in §
147-6 and in accordance with ASCE 24. Utility lines shall be designed and
elevated in accordance with N.J.A.C. 7:13.
      (4)   Enclosures below base flood elevation. Fully enclosed areas below
the design flood elevation shall be constructed in accordance with §
147-22(F)(2) and with ASCE 24 for new construction and substantial
improvements. Existing enclosures such as a basement or crawlspace having a
floor that is below grade along all adjoining exterior walls shall be
abandoned, filled-in, and/or otherwise modified to conform with the
requirements of N.J.A.C. 7:13 when the project has been determined to be a
substantial improvement by the Floodplain Administrator.
      (5)   Flood-damage resistant materials. Flood-damage-resistant materials
shall be used below the Local Design Flood Elevation determined in §
147-6.
      (6)   Protection of mechanical, plumbing, and electrical systems.
Mechanical, plumbing, and electrical systems, equipment and components,
heating, ventilation, air conditioning, plumbing fixtures, duct systems, and
other service equipment, shall be elevated to or above the Local Design Flood
Elevation determined in §
147-6.
         (a)   Exception: Electrical systems, equipment and components, and
heating, ventilating, air conditioning, and plumbing appliances, plumbing
fixtures, duct systems, and other service equipment shall be permitted to be
located below the Local Design Flood Elevation provided that they are designed
and installed to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components and to resist hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and stresses,
including the effects of buoyancy, during the occurrence of flooding to the
Local Design Flood Elevation in compliance with the flood-resistant
construction requirements of ASCE 24. Electrical wiring systems shall be
permitted to be located below the Local Design Flood Elevation provided they
conform to the provisions of NFPA 70 (National Electric Code).
CHAPTER 151.
FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS
[HISTORY: Adopted by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton 9-
13-1971 by Ord. No. 10-1971 as Ch. 127 of the 1971 Code. Amendments noted where
applicable.]
   
§ 151-1.   License required.
   
§ 151-2.   Fees.
   
§ 151-3.   Term of license; application; time period for compliance.
   
§ 151-4.   Suspension or revocation of license.
   
§ 151-5.   Interpretation.
   
§ 151-6.   Violations and penalties.
§ 151-1. License required.
Editor's Note: Amended at time of adoption of Code (see
Ch. 1, General Provisions, Art. I). It shall be unlawful for any person or any
body corporate to conduct a retail food establishment as defined in and
governed by N.J.A.C. 8:24-1.1 et seq. without first having procured a license
from the local Board of Health so to do or without complying with any or all of
the provisions concerning operation and maintenance of the same as contained in
the aforementioned provisions.
§ 151-2. Fees.
Editor's Note: Amended at time of adoption of Code (see
Ch. 1, General Provisions, Art. I). The annual fees for licenses for each
retail food establishment shall be as adopted from time to time by ordinance.
§ 151-3. Term of license; application; time period for compliance.
Editor's Note: Amended at time of adoption of Code (see
Ch. 1, General Provisions, Art. I). All applications shall run from January 1
to December 31 of each given year. All applications for licenses under this
chapter shall be in writing to the Secretary of the Board of Health on such
forms as are designated by the Board of Health. All establishments covered by
the provisions mentioned in §
151-1 in operation on the effective date of this chapter shall have 10 days
from said effective date to apply for said license before any complaints for
violations shall issue.
§ 151-4. Suspension or revocation of license.
   A.   Any license issued under the terms and provisions of this chapter may
be suspended or revoked by the Board of Health of this municipality for the
violation by the licensee of any provision of this chapter or N.J.A.C. 8:24-1.1
et seq. or whenever it shall appear that the business, trade, calling,
profession or occupation of the person, firm or corporation to whom such
license was issued is conducted in a disorderly or improper manner, or in
violation of any law of the United States, the State of New Jersey or any
ordinance of this municipality, or that the person or persons conducting the
retail food establishment is of an unfit character to conduct the same, or that
the purpose for which the license has been issued is being used for a purpose
foreign to that for which the license was issued.
   B.   A license issued under the terms and provisions of this chapter shall
not be revoked, canceled or suspended until a hearing thereon shall have been
had by the Board of Health. Written notice of the time and place of such
hearing shall be served upon the licensee at least three days prior to the date
set for such hearing. Such notice shall also contain a brief statement of the
grounds to be relied upon for revoking, canceling or suspending such license.
Notice may be given either by personal delivery thereof to the person to be
notified or be deposited in the United States Post Office in a sealed envelope,
postage prepaid, addressed to such person to be notified at the business
address appearing upon said license. At the hearing before the Board of Health
the person aggrieved shall have an opportunity to answer and may thereafter be
heard, and upon due consideration and deliberation by the Board of Health, the
complaint may be dismissed, or if the governing body concludes that the charges
have been sustained and substantiated, it may revoke, cancel or suspend the
license held by the licensee.
   C.   If any such license shall have been revoked, neither the holder thereof
nor any person acting for him/her, directly or indirectly, shall be entitled to
another license to carry on the same business within the town unless the
application for such license shall be approved by the Board of Health.
§ 151-5. Interpretation.
   No provision of this chapter shall be applied so as to impose any unlawful
burden on either interstate commerce or any activity of the state or federal
government.
§ 151-6. Violations and penalties.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any of the provisions of
this chapter shall, upon conviction, be subject to one or more of the
following: a fine of not more than $1,000, imprisonment for a period not to
exceed 90 days or a period of community service not to exceed 90 days, and each
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, and each day the same is
violated, shall be deemed and taken to be a separate and distinct offense.
CHAPTER 154.
FUNDRAISING
[HISTORY: Adopted by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton as
indicated in article histories. Amendments noted where applicable.]
ARTICLE I.
Use of Town Name, Personnel, Logo, Equipment or Symbols
   
§ 154-1.   Purpose.
   
§ 154-2.   Consent of Mayor and Council required.
   
§ 154-3.   Filing of written request; required information.
   
§ 154-4.   Violations and penalties.
   
§ 154-5.   Enforcement.
Article I.
Use of Town Name, Personnel, Logo, Equipment or Symbols
[Adopted 2-14-1994 by Ord. No. 3-1994]
§ 154-1. Purpose.
   Fundraising is a viable means to ensure the financial integrity of many
local civic, social and fraternal organizations. The Town of Hammonton wants to
encourage fundraising but wants to ensure that it is done in an environment
that is void of fraud or suspicion. It is the purpose of this article that
guidelines shall be established for the use of the official name of the town or
any of its departments or components in any fundraising activity.
§ 154-2. Consent of Mayor and Council required.
   No individual or organization shall be permitted to use the official name of
the town, the town name, the name of any town employee in their official
capacity, the name of any town department, the logo of the town or any
department or any other symbol related to the town in any fundraising effort
without first obtaining the consent of the Mayor and Council. The use may be
either direct communication, mailing, telephone solicitation or any other means
employed to induce the public to make donations of money or contributions of
any kind.
§ 154-3. Filing of written request; required information.
   If an individual or organization desires to use the official name of the
town, the town name, the name of any town employee in their official capacity,
the name of any town department, the logo of the town or any department or any
other symbol related to the town in a fundraising effort, a written request
must be made to the Mayor and Council at least 14 days prior to the use of any
of the aforementioned, and said request is to be filed in the Town Clerk/
Administrator's office and presented to the Mayor and Council at the next
subsequent Council meeting. The request must contain the name of the individual
or organization doing the fundraising, the type of fundraising activity, the
duration of the activity and the exact use of the town name(s) specified in
this article which will be used. The Mayor and Council's decision shall be set
forth in a resolution, to be filed in the town's minutes.
§ 154-4. Violations and penalties.
   A.   If an individual uses a name or symbol specified in this article
without first obtaining the permission of the Mayor and Council, that person
shall be deemed to have violated this article and shall be subject to one or
more of the following: a fine of not more than $1,000, imprisonment for a
period not to exceed 90 days or a period of community service not to exceed 90
days.
   B.   The sentence, upon conviction, shall be within the discretion of the
judge presiding over the matter. In addition to the penalties above, the judge
shall issue an order that the individual or organization shall immediately
cease all fundraising activities. If any individual or organization is found to
have engaged in such activities after being ordered to cease, the individuals
may be subject to the same penalties specified above upon conviction.
§ 154-5. Enforcement.
   This article shall be enforced by the local Police Department, the local
Zoning Officer or upon complaint brought by any citizen. Upon the complaint
being filed, the matter will be brought before the Municipal Court for hearing.
CHAPTER 157.
GAMES OF CHANCE
[HISTORY: Adopted by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton as
indicated in article histories. Amendments noted where applicable.]
ARTICLE I.
Raffles
   
§ 157-1.   Operation on Sunday.
   
§ 157-2.   License data.
ARTICLE II.
Bingo
   
§ 157-3.   Operation on Sunday.
   
§ 157-4.   License data.
ARTICLE III.
Issuances of Licenses
   
§ 157-5.   Delegation of authority.
   
§ 157-6.   Compliance with standards.
   
§ 157-7.   Denial of license; review.
Article I.
Raffles
[Adopted 6-13-1971 by Ord. No. 10-1971 as Art. I of Ch. 100 of the 1971 Code]
§ 157-1. Operation on Sunday.
   Games of chance may be conducted under any license issued by the Mayor and
Common Council pursuant to the Raffle Licensing Law (N.J.S.A. 5:8-58) on
Sunday, in the Town of Hammonton, County of Atlantic, State of New Jersey.
§ 157-2. License data.
   The license issued for the holding, operating and conducting of such games
of chance, by the Mayor and Common Council, shall provide that said games of
chance may be conducted on Sunday.
Article II.
Bingo
[Adopted 9-13-1971 by Ord. No. 10-1971 as Art. II of Ch. 100 of the 1971 Code]
§ 157-3. Operation on Sunday.
   Games of chance may be conducted under any license issued by the Mayor and
Common Council pursuant to the provisions of the Bingo Licensing Law, Laws
1954, Chapter 6, Section 1 et seq. (N.J.S.A. 5:8-31), on the first day of the
week, commonly known and designated as Sunday, in the Town of Hammonton,
Atlantic County, New Jersey.
§ 157-4. License data.
   The license to be issued for the holding, operating and conducting of such
games of chance, by the Mayor and Common Council, shall provide that such games
of chance may be conducted on the first day of the week, commonly known and
designated as Sunday.
Article III.
Issuances of Licenses
[Adopted 4-27-2009 by Ord. No. 6A-2009]
§ 157-5. Delegation of authority.
   The Municipal Clerk is delegated the authority to approve and grant raffle
and bingo licenses to be held in the Town of Hammonton.
§ 157-6. Compliance with standards.
   The issuance of raffle and bingo licenses by the Municipal Clerk will comply
with N.J.A.C. 13:47 and any other laws or regulations of the State of New
Jersey and the Legalized Games of Chance Control Commission.
§ 157-7. Denial of license; review.
   In the event the Municipal Clerk denies a bingo or raffle license for any
reason, that application and reason for denial of license shall be reviewed by
the Administration Committee prior to issuing the denial of license to the
applicant.
CHAPTER 162.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS CLEANUP AND REMOVAL
[HISTORY: Adopted by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton 10-
28-2002 by Ord. No. 38-2002. Amendments noted where applicable.]
   
§ 162-1.   Purpose.
   
§ 162-2.   Definitions.
   
§ 162-3.   Assignment of liability.
   
§ 162-4.   Schedules of fees.
   
§ 162-5.   Hearing upon reasonableness of assessment.
   
§ 162-6.   Liability of attorney's fees and collection costs.
§ 162-1. Purpose.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the recovery of costs for the
cleanup and removal of hazardous substances within the Town of Hammonton either
by intentional or unintentional acts and hold those responsible for such
discharges financially obligated to the Town of Hammonton for any expenditures
for labor, materials and use of equipment.
§ 162-2. Definitions.
   As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
indicated:
   CLEANUP AND REMOVAL COSTS
   All costs associated with a discharge, as defined herein, within the
boundaries of the Town of Hammonton, which shall include labor and material for
the removal of hazardous substances or taking of reasonable measures to prevent
or mitigate damages to the public health, safety or welfare of the residents of
the Town of Hammonton, including real property, both private and public.
   DISCHARGE
   Any intentional or unintentional act or omission resulting in the release,
spill, leak, emission, dumping, or disposal of hazardous substances into the
waters or lands within the Town of Hammonton, or outside the Town of Hammonton
when damage may result to the waters or lands within the Town.
   HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE
   All elements and compounds, including petroleum products, as set forth in
N.J.S.A. 58:10-23.11b, as amended, except that sewage and sewage sludge sh3all
be considered hazardous substances for the purposes of this chapter.
   PERSON
   Any individual, public or private corporation, companies, association,
societies, firms, partnerships or joint-stock companies.
§ 162-3. Assignment of liability.
   After due investigation by the Town of Hammonton, any person who shall be
found to have discharged hazardous substances within the Town of Hammonton
shall be held strictly liable for all cleanup and removal costs incurred by the
Town of Hammonton and its agents, servants and employees. Said person shall
receive written notification of the amount due. Payment is required to be made
to the Town of Hammonton within 30 days of the date of notice.
§ 162-4. Schedules of fees.
   A.   The following fees shall be imposed:
      (1)   Hazardous Materials Technician: $30 per hour.
      (2)   Fire fighters: $20 per hour.
      (3)   Use of fire apparatus: $100 per hour.
   B.   The within fee schedule may be amended and/or supplemented by
resolution of the Mayor and Council on an annual basis.
§ 162-5. Hearing upon reasonableness of assessment.
   Upon assessment of cleanup and removal costs, the person assessed may,
within 10 days of receipt of such notice of assessment, make a written request
for a hearing before the Township Committee. The hearing shall deal exclusively
with the reasonableness of the amount assessed. Liability will not be an issue.
§ 162-6. Liability of attorney's fees and collection costs.
   The person responsible for the discharge shall be liable for all reasonable
attorney's fees and costs incurred in the collection of cleanup and removal
cost due to failure of the responsible person to remit payment as required
herein.
CHAPTER 165.
HOUSING STANDARDS
[HISTORY: Adopted by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton 12-
13-1982 by Ord. No. 20-1982. Amendments noted where applicable.]
   
§ 165-1.   Construction Code Official designated.
   
§ 165-2.   Determination that dwellings are unfit for habitation.
   
§ 165-3.   Adoption of standards.
   
§ 165-4.   Procedure for complaints.
   
§ 165-5.   Order to repair; removal or demolition by town.
   
§ 165-6.   Service of complaints or orders.
   
§ 165-7.   Powers and duties of Construction Code Official.
   
§ 165-8.   Construal of provisions.
GENERAL REFERENCES
   Fair-share housing obligation — See
Ch. 3, Art. II.
   Uniform construction codes — See
Ch. 115.
   Property maintenance — See
Ch. 211.
   Rent control — See
Ch. 217.
§ 165-1. Construction Code Official designated.
   The Construction Code Official of the Town of Hammonton be and is hereby
designated as the officer to exercise the powers prescribed by this chapter and
shall serve in such capacity without any additional salary.
§ 165-2. Determination that dwellings are unfit for habitation.
Editor's Note: Amended at time of adoption of Code (see
Ch. 1, General Provisions, Art. I). For the purpose of this chapter, the
Construction Code Official may determine that a dwelling is unfit for human
habitation if he/she finds that conditions exist in such dwelling which are
dangerous or injurious to the health or safety of the occupants of such
dwelling, the occupants of neighboring dwellings or other residents of the Town
of Hammonton. Such conditions may include the following, without limiting the
generality of the foregoing: defects therein increasing the hazards of fire,
accident or other calamities; lack of adequate ventilation, light or sanitary
facilities; and dilapidation, disrepair, structural defects or uncleanliness;
failure to comply with the requirements of the Building Code or the certificate
of occupancy.
§ 165-3. Adoption of standards.
Editor's Note: Amended at time of adoption of Code (see
Ch. 1, General Provisions, Art. I). Pursuant to the provisions of P.L. 1946, c.
21, (N.J.S.A. 40:49-5.1 et seq.), N.J.A.C. 5:28-1.1 et seq. is hereby accepted,
adopted and established as a standard to be used as a guide in determining the
fitness of a building for human habitation or occupancy or use. A copy of
N.J.A.C. 5:28-1.1 et seq. is annexed to this chapter, and three copies of the
same have been placed on file in the office of the Town Clerk/Administrator and
are available to all persons desiring to use and examine the same.
§ 165-4. Procedure for complaints.
Editor's Note: Amended at time of adoption of Code (see
Ch. 1, General Provisions, Art. I). Whenever a petition is filed with the
Construction Code Official by a public authority as defined in N.J.S.A. 40:48-
2.4 or by at least five residents of the municipality charging that any
dwelling is unfit for human habitation as herein defined or whenever it appears
to the Construction Code Official, on his/her own motion, that any dwelling is
unfit for human habitation, as herein defined, the Construction Official shall,
if preliminary investigation discloses a basis for such charges, issue and
cause to be served upon the owner of and parties in interest in such dwelling a
complaint stating the charges in that respect and containing a notice that a
hearing will be held before the Construction Code Official or designated agent
at a place therein fixed and not less than seven days nor more than 30 days
after the serving of said complaint, that the owner and parties in interest
shall be given the right to file an answer to the complaint and to appear in
person or otherwise and give testimony at the time and place fixed in the
complaints and that the rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law or equity
shall not be controlling in hearings before the Construction Code Official.
§ 165-5. Order to repair; removal or demolition by town.
   If after such notice and hearing the Construction Code Official determines
that the dwelling under consideration is unfit for human habitation, as herein
defined, he/she shall state in writing the findings of fact in support of such
determination and shall issue and cause to be served upon the owner thereof and
parties in interest an order requiring:
   A.   The repair, alteration or improvement of the said building to be made
by the owner, within a reasonable time, which shall be set forth in the order
or at the option of the owner to vacate or to have said building vacated and
closed within the time set forth in the order.
   B.   If the building is in such condition as to make it dangerous to the
health and safety of persons on or near the premises and the owner fails to
repair, alter or improve the said building within the time specified in the
order, that the owner remove or demolish the said building within a reasonable
time as specified in the said order of removal.
   C.   That if the owner fails to comply with an order to repair, alter or
improve or, at the option of the owner, to vacate and close the building, the
Construction Code Official may cause such building to be repaired, altered or
improved or to be vacated and closed; that the Construction Code Official may
cause to be posted on the main entrance of any building so closed a placard
with the following words: "This building is unfit for human habitation or
occupancy or use; the use or occupation of this building is prohibited and
unlawful."
   D.   That if the owner fails to comply with an order to remove or demolish
the building, the Construction Code Official may cause such building to be
removed or demolished or may contract for the removal or demolition thereof
after advertisement for and receipt of bids therefor.
   E.   That the amount of the cost of the filing of legal papers, expert
witnesses' fees, search fees and advertising charges incurred in the course of
any proceeding taken under this chapter determined in the favor of the
municipality and the cost of such repairs, alterations or improvements or of
vacating and closing or of removal or demolition, if any, or the amount of the
balance thereof remaining after deduction of the sum, if any realized from the
sale of materials derived from such building or from any contract for removal
or demolition thereof, shall be a municipal lien against the real property upon
which such cost was incurred. If the building is removed or demolished by the
Construction Code Official, he/she shall sell the materials of such building.
There shall be credited against the cost of the removal or demolition thereof
the proceeds of any sale of such materials or any sum derived from any contract
for the removal or demolition of the building. If there are no such credits or
if the sum total of such costs exceeds the total of such credits, a detailed
statement of the aforesaid costs and the amount so due shall be filed with the
Municipal Tax Assessor or other custodian of the records of tax liens, and a
copy thereof, shall be forthwith forwarded to the owner by certified mail. If
the total of the credits exceed such costs, the balance remaining shall be
deposited in the Superior Court by the Construction Code Official, shall be
secured in such manner as may be directed by such court and shall be disbursed
according to the order or judgment of the court to the persons found to be
entitled thereto by final order or judgment of such court; provided, however,
that nothing in this section shall be construed to impair or limit in any way
the power of the municipality to define and declare nuisances and to cause
their removal or abatement, by summary proceedings or otherwise. Any owner or
party in interest may, within 30 days from the date of the filing of the lien
certificate, proceed in a summary manner in the Superior Court to contest the
reasonableness of the amount or the accuracy of the costs set forth in the
municipal lien certificate. Editor's Note: Amended at time of adoption of Code
(see
Ch. 1, General Provisions, Art. I).
§ 165-6. Service of complaints or orders.
   Complaints or orders issued by the Construction Code Official pursuant to
this chapter shall be served upon persons either personally or by certified
mail, but if the whereabouts of such persons is unknown and the same cannot be
ascertained by said Construction Code Official in the exercise of reasonable
diligence and the said Construction Code Official shall make an affidavit to
that effect, then the serving of such complaint or order upon such persons may
be made by publishing the same once each week for two successive weeks in a
newspaper circulating in the Town of Hammonton. A copy of such complaint or
order shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises affected by the
complaint or order, and a copy of such complaint or order shall be duly
recorded or lodged for record with the county recording officer of the county
in which the dwelling is located.
§ 165-7. Powers and duties of Construction Code Official.
   The Construction Code Official is hereby authorized and empowered to
exercise such powers as may be necessary or convenient to carry out and
effectuate the purposes and provisions of this chapter, including the
following, in addition to others herein granted:
   A.   To investigate the dwelling conditions in the Town of Hammonton in
order to determine which dwellings therein are unfit for human habitation.
   B.   To administer oaths, affirmations, examine witnesses and receive
evidence.
   C.   To enter upon premises for the purpose of making examination, provided
that such entries shall be made in such a manner as to cause the least possible
inconvenience to the persons in possession.
   D.   To appoint and fix the duties of such officers, agents and employees as
he/she deems necessary to carry out the purpose of this chapter.
   E.   To delegate any of his/her functions and powers under this chapter to
such officers and agents as he/she may designate.
§ 165-8. Construal of provisions.
   A.   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to abrogate or impair the
power of the municipality or any officer or department to enforce any
provisions of its Charter or its ordinances or regulations, nor to prevent or
punish violations thereof, and the powers conferred by this chapter shall be in
addition and supplemental to the powers conferred upon the city by any other
law or ordinance.
   B.   Any action taken using revenues derived from the local property tax
shall be taken only after advertisement for, and receipt of, bids therefor,
pursuant to the provisions of the Local Public Contracts Law (N.J.S.A. 40A:11-
1 et seq.) unless the action is necessary to prevent imminent danger to life,
limb or property. Editor's Note: Added at time of adoption of Code (see
Ch. 1, General Provisions, Art. I).
CHAPTER 168.
INSURANCE
[HISTORY: Adopted by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton as
indicated in article histories. Amendments noted where applicable.]
ARTICLE I.
Fire Insurance Claims
   
§ 168-1.   Payment to claimant prohibited until charges due paid.
   
§ 168-2.   Payment of liens by insurance company required; appeal.
   
§ 168-3.   Payment by installments; payment to insured by insurance company.
   
§ 168-4.   Prevalence of claim; exception.
   
§ 168-5.   Construal of provisions.
GENERAL REFERENCES
   Fire prevention — See
Ch. 144.
Article I.
Fire Insurance Claims
[Adopted 6-25-1979 by Ord. No. 7-1979]
§ 168-1. Payment to claimant prohibited until charges due paid.
Editor's Note: Amended at time of adoption of Code (see
Ch. 1, General Provisions, Art. I). It is determined that the payment to a
claimant by any insurance company of any claim in excess of $2,500 is
prohibited for fire damages on any real property located within the
municipality pursuant to any fire insurance policy issued or renewed after the
adoption of this article and after the filing of this article with the State
Commissioner of Insurance. Payment shall be prohibited until such time as
anticipated demolition costs and all taxes and assessments and all other
municipal liens or charges due and payable, appearing on the official
certificate of search, shall have been paid either by the owner of such real
property or by the insurance company, pursuant to the provisions of §
168-2 of this article, or the municipality submits to the insurance company a
copy of a resolution adopted pursuant to §
168-3 of this article. No change in such an ordinance shall take effect until
filed with the Commissioner.
§ 168-2. Payment of liens by insurance company required; appeal.
Editor's Note: Amended at time of adoption of Code (see
Ch. 1, General Provisions, Art. I). Unless a resolution is received pursuant to
§
168-3 of this article by an insurance company writing fire insurance policies
in the Town of Hammonton, such insurance company is hereby authorized and
required, prior to the payment of any claims for fire damages in excess of
$2,500, to pay the Town of Hammonton the amount of anticipated demolition costs
and the liens appearing on the official certificate and such other recorded
liens or related charges as may be certified to the insurance company;
provided, however, that if an appeal is taken on the amount of any lien or
charge, other than an appeal on the assessed valuation of real property
pursuant to N.J.R.S. 54:3-21, the insurance company shall withhold 75% of the
full amount of the lien or charge being contested pending termination of all
proceedings, at which time such moneys and all interest accruing thereon at a
rate paid on interest bearing accounts in banking institutions or savings and
loan associations in the state shall be disbursed in accordance with the final
order or judgment of the court.
§ 168-3. Payment by installments; payment to insured by insurance company.
   The governing body of the Town of Hammonton, in which the fire-damaged
property is located, may enter into agreement with the owner of any fire-
damaged property to pay in full all delinquent taxes, assessments or other
municipal liens by installments pursuant to N.J.R.S. 54:5-19 or for the
redemption of the tax sale lien by installment payments pursuant to Article 7
of Chapter 5 of Title 54 of the Revised Statutes, if the governing body of the
Town of Hammonton is satisfied that the claim for fire damages is to be used to
restore or improve the fire-damaged property. An insurance company receiving a
certified copy of a resolution of agreement from the governing body of the Town
of Hammonton is authorized to make full payment on the claim to the insured
person.
§ 168-4. Prevalence of claim; exception.
   A claim made in accordance with the provisions of this article shall be
paramount to any other, except that the claim of a holder of a mortgage on the
fire-damaged property, where the fire insurance policy at the time of the loss
listed the mortgagee as a named insured, in which event the claim of the
mortgagee to the proceeds shall be paramount to the municipal lien under this
act only to the extent of the amount due and payable to the mortgagee under the
mortgage contract.
§ 168-5. Construal of provisions.
   Nothing in this article shall be construed:
   A.   To obligate an insurance company for any amount in excess of the value
of the fire insurance policy on the property or the amount of the liability of
the insurance company there under;
   B.   Except as provided in the case of appeals under §
168-2 of this article, to obligate the insurance company for any liens not
appearing on the official certificate or any certified changes submitted by the
bonded official;
   C.   To affect the authority of the Town of Hammonton to enforce a municipal
lien under any other law of this state; or
   D.   To obligate an insurance company for the payment of demolition costs or
anticipated costs, as the case may be, if those costs did not appear on an
official certificate or a certified change submitted by the bonded official.
Editor's Note: Added at time of adoption of Code (see
Ch. 1, General Provisions, Art. I).
CHAPTER 170
CONTROL OF THE GROWTH OF INVASIVE PLANT SPECIES
   §
170-1.   Definition of invasive plants.
   §
170-2.   Control of growth.
   §
170-3.   Inspections.
   §
170-4.   Violations and penalties.
[HISTORY: Adopted 9-23-2013 by Ord. No. 020-2013]
§ 170-1.   Definition of invasive plants.
   All native and non-native vines and vegetation that grow out of place and
are competitive, persistent, and pernicious. These plants may damage trees,
vegetation, or structures. Examples include but are not limited to bamboo
(spreading or running type), ragweed, multi flora rose, kudzu-vine and poison
ivy or oak as well as the invasive plants species lists developed by the New
Jersey Species Strike Team and the New Jersey Forestry Association.
§ 170-2.   Control of growth.
   All persons must control the growth of invasive plants. Failure to control
the spread of such vegetation beyond the boundaries of a resident's property is
a violation of this chapter.
§ 170-3.   Inspections.
   All places and premises in the Town of Hammonton shall be subject to
inspection by the enforcing officer. Such inspections shall be performed by
such person, persons or agency duly authorized and appointed by the Town of
Hammonton. Such inspection shall be made if that official has reason to believe
that any section of this chapter is being violated.
§ 170-4.   Violations and penalties.
   Whenever an invasive plant, as defined by this chapter, is found on any plot
of land, lot or any other premises or place, a violation notice shall be given
to the owner, in writing, to remove or abate the same within such time as shall
be specified therein, taking into account the nature of the specific invasive
species.
   The cost of abatement shall be borne by the property owner.
   If the owner fails to comply with such notice within the time specified
therein, the enforcing official may remove or otherwise control the invasive
plant species and the town may thereafter recover the cost of such removal from
the property owner and place a lien on the property to recover the cost of
invasive plant removal.
CHAPTER 172.
JUNKYARDS
[HISTORY: Adopted by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton 9-
13-1971 by Ord. No. 10-1971 as Ch. 108 of the 1971 Code. Amendments noted where
applicable.]
   
§ 172-1.   Definitions.
   
§ 172-2.   Approval of use by Board of Adjustment.
   
§ 172-3.   (Reserved)
   
§ 172-4.   Regulations.
   
§ 172-5.   Renewal of licenses; hearing.
   
§ 172-6.   Suspension and revocation of license; hearing.
   
§ 172-7.   Violations and penalties.
   
§ 172-8.   Location restriction.
   
§ 172-9.   Inspection; administration.
   
§ 172-10.   Refund of fees.
   
§ 172-11.   Alternate violations and penalties.
GENERAL REFERENCES
   Business registration — See
Ch. 109.
   Fences — See
Ch. 137.
   Land development — See
Ch. 175.
§ 172-1. Definitions.
   As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
indicated:
   JUNKYARD
   A place where old metal or material of any kind, including, but not by way
of excluding, disabled vehicles not held for sale in parts or as junk metal or
materials, paper, glass, rags, bags or other old materials, is collected,
bought, sold, stored or dealt in.
   PERSON
   Includes partnerships and corporations; the masculine gender shall include
the feminine and the neuter genders; and the single number shall include the
plural number.
§ 172-2. Approval of use by Board of Adjustment.
   No junkyard shall henceforth be established on any premises unless and until
approval for such use is obtained from the Board of Adjustment pursuant to the
provisions of N.J.S.A. 40:55D-70. The Board of Adjustment, in its review, shall
request an opinion from the Planning Board as to the relationship of the
proposed use to surrounding uses and the effect such proposed use may have on
any adopted plans of the Planning Board of any long-range goals established by
the Planning Board, and shall consider such items as the location of the
proposed facility, size of operation, setbacks, fences, buffer areas, noise,
fire hazards and drainage. No such facility shall be permitted to be
established on a lot containing less than three acres. Such facility shall be
set back from all property lines at least 35 feet; shall have a solid fence on
all sides with a minimum height of 10 feet; and shall include plans for access
to the site by at least one fifteen-foot driveway. In no case shall any
junkyard be permitted to be established or maintained in any area within the
limits of the Town of Hammonton other than within an industrial zone as
classified by Chapter 175, Land Development.
§ 172-3. (Reserved)
Editor's Note: Former § 172-3, Application for license; fee; expiration, was
repealed 6-26-2006 by Ord. No. 10-2006. See
Ch. 109, Business Registration.
§ 172-4. Regulations.
   All licensed junkyards shall comply with the following regulations:
   A.   No car or part of a car shall be kept, stored or stacked in such a
manner that rainwater would collect and remain in any of the parts thereof for
a period longer than 48 hours.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to stack, pile or place motor vehicles, parts of
motor vehicles or other junk or materials upon such premises in such a manner
as to create a place for the harboring or breeding of mice, rats or other
vermin, or to stack, pile or place junk above the height of the boundary fence
surrounding the premises.
   C.   All yards or places where such business is or shall be conducted shall
be enclosed by a fence at least 10 feet high and of a type and construction as
shall be approved by the Building Inspector of the Town of Hammonton. Editor's
Note: See
Ch. 137, Fences.
   D.   It shall be unlawful to burn any automobile or automobile parts or
other junk or materials on the premises without application first being made to
the Fire Chief of the Town of Hammonton, who shall, in writing, approve or
disapprove said application, and if approved, shall designate the time for such
burning, which shall be under the Chief's supervision, provided that such
burning is not otherwise prohibited by any statutes of the State of New Jersey.
   E.   It shall be unlawful to hammer or pound any metal or other materials on
said premises between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. from Monday to
Saturday, inclusive, or at any time on Sundays.
   F.   Any inoperable vehicle stored in a licensed junkyard shall have all
gasoline removed from said vehicle within one hour after said vehicle is so
stored.
   G.   No license issued pursuant to the terms of this chapter shall be
assigned or transferred without the prior approval of the Council of the Town
of Hammonton. Any application for transfer of a junkyard license secured
pursuant to this chapter to a new applicant shall be considered for all
purposes in the same manner as a new application for said license.
§ 172-5. Renewal of licenses; hearing.
   A.   The Town of Hammonton, by issuing said license, reserves unto itself
the right to refuse the renewal of any existing license upon a finding by the
Mayor and Council that the operation of said junkyard at the premises used for
said purpose is detrimental to the health, safety and general welfare of the
public. The granting of a license under this chapter shall not be construed for
any purpose a permission to the licensee to maintain any condition which would
constitute a public or private nuisance.
   B.   Should the town determine on the hearing of the application for renewal
of the existing license that there is probable cause for refusing to renew said
license, the Town Clerk/Administrator is to immediately notify the applicant
that the Town of Hammonton will hold a hearing on whether or not said license
should be renewed. Said notification should inform the applicant of the time
and date and the place of the hearing, which hearing shall be held within not
less than seven nor more than 14 days from the date of service of said notice.
The applicant shall then have an opportunity to be heard on the issue of
whether or not said license should be renewed.
   C.   The Town Clerk/Administrator shall also notify all property owners
within 1,000 feet of the subject junkyard of the time and place and date of
said hearing.
   D.   All of the said notices shall be sent certified mail, return receipt
requested.
§ 172-6. Suspension and revocation of license; hearing.
   A.   Upon any violation of the provisions of this chapter by a licensee, the
Town of Hammonton shall have the right to serve on said licensee a notice that
a hearing will be held by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton
for the purpose of determining whether or not the licensee's junkyard license
should not be revoked. Said notice shall set forth the particular violations
complained of and shall set a date for the hearing, not less than 10 days nor
more than 30 days after the service of said notice of hearing.
   B.   The Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton shall have the
right to revoke or suspend the license of any licensee after the hearing as set
forth above should it find the licensee guilty of having committed any or all
of the violations complained of.
§ 172-7. Violations and penalties.
   Any person who, by himself/herself or by his/her agent, servant, Clerk/
Administrator or employee, shall establish, operate and maintain a junkyard, as
herein defined, without a license as required by this chapter, or who, having
had the license revoked, shall continue to establish or operate or maintain a
junkyard upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to one or more of the
following: a fine of not more than $1,000, imprisonment for a period not to
exceed 90 days or a period of community service not to exceed 90 days, in the
discretion of the Municipal Judge before whom said person is convicted.
§ 172-8. Location restriction.
   No license issued hereunder shall entitle such licensee to operate there
under at any premises or location other than the location or premises specified
in said license.
§ 172-9. Inspection; administration.
   All licensed premises shall at all time be subject to such rules and
regulations as may hereafter be made by the Mayor and Council of the Town of
Hammonton, and shall be subject to inspection by the Building Inspector or any
of his, her or their agents. The Building Inspector of the Town of Hammonton
shall have the responsibility of administering this chapter and making all
complaints under this chapter.
§ 172-10. Refund of fees.
   There shall be no refund to a licensee of any of the license fees upon
either the surrender or the revocation of a license granted hereunder.
§ 172-11. Alternate violations and penalties.
   All penalties imposed under this chapter for violations thereof shall be
independent of one another, and the Town of Hammonton shall have the option of
whether to prosecute a violator in the Hammonton Municipal Court under §
172-7 of this chapter or whether to move for revocation of the licensee's
license, if such he/she has, under §
172-6, or both. The invoking of sanctions under §
172-6, or criminal penalties under §
172-7, shall not be a bar to a subsequent proceeding under either section.
CHAPTER 180.
LAUNDERETTES
[HISTORY: Adopted by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton 9-
13-1971 by Ord. No. 10-1971 as Ch. 112 of the 1971 Code. Amendments noted where
applicable.]
   
§ 180-1.   Definitions.
   
§ 180-2.   (Reserved)
   
§ 180-3.   Condition of premises; manner of operation.
   
§ 180-4.   Noise.
   
§ 180-5.   Inspections by Board of Health.
   
§ 180-6.   Suspension or revocation of license.
   
§ 180-7.   Violations and penalties.
GENERAL REFERENCES
   Business registration — See
Ch. 109.
   Sewer connection fees — See
Ch. 226, §
226-2.
   Laundry facilities in trailer parks — See
Ch. 264.
   Water connection fees — See
Ch. 264, § 264-23.
§ 180-1. Definitions.
   The following words, when used in this chapter, shall have the following
meaning:
   LAUNDERETTE
   An establishment or place of business conducted for the purpose of washing,
cleaning, drying and laundering clothes and other washable materials that may
be brought to said establishment or place of business by customers and wherein
the work is done in machines, coin-operated or otherwise, located on the
premises, by the customers themselves or by or under the supervision of the
owners or operators of said establishment or place of business for said
customers, and shall include a Laundromat, wash-o-mat and similar names and
types under which laundering of the self-service type is carried on.
   PERSON
   Includes a corporation, association, organization, firm and partnership as
well as an individual.
§ 180-2. (Reserved)
Editor's Note: Former § 180-2, License required; application; expiration; fee,
was repealed 6-26-2006 by Ord. No. 11-2006. See
Ch. 109, Business Registration.
§ 180-3. Condition of premises; manner of operation.
   The entire premises devoted to the operation of the launderette and all
machines used in connection therewith shall be kept in a clean and sanitary
condition. The floor shall be kept clean and dry. The premises shall be
adequately ventilated and provided with sufficient natural or artificial light.
The walls of said premises shall be covered with nonabsorbent paint, cement or
other impervious materials. All plumbing work shall at all times conform to the
provisions of the Plumbing Code Editor's Note: See
Ch. 115, Construction Codes, Uniform. of the town and shall always be kept in a
good condition and state of repair. Each launderette shall furnish to the
public or its customers suitable rest rooms and sanitary facilities so as to
prevent nuisances and unsanitary conditions which are detrimental to the
health, welfare and safety of the public. Said launderette shall be operated in
such a manner as to always comply in all respects with the requirements and
regulations of the Fire Department, Board of Health, Building Code, Plumbing
Code and Zoning Ordinance of the town.
§ 180-4. Noise.
   No machinery used in the operation of a launderette shall be operated in
such manner as to cause unnecessary or unreasonable noise or vibration to the
annoyance of residents in the surrounding neighborhood or to the detriment of
the well-being of the neighborhood or to buildings and premises in the
neighborhood.
§ 180-5. Inspections by Board of Health.
   The Board of Health of the town shall, at least once a month, check each
licensed premises to see that the business is being conducted and operated
within the provisions of this chapter. The Board may make more frequent
inspections in its discretion.
§ 180-6. Suspension or revocation of license.
   Licenses granted hereunder may be suspended or revoked at any time by the
Common Council upon conviction of the holder thereof of a violation of any
provisions of this chapter.
§ 180-7. Violations and penalties.
   Any person violating or failing to comply with any of the provisions of this
chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to one or more of the
following: a fine of not more than $1,000, imprisonment for a period not to
exceed 90 days or a period of community service not to exceed 90 days, at the
discretion of the Judge. Each succeeding violation shall be construed to be a
new violation.
CHAPTER 182.
(RESERVED)
[Former Ch. 182, Licensing of Businesses, adopted 1-27-2003 by Ord. No. 2-2003,
was repealed 2-23-2004 by Ord. No. 1-2004. See now Ch. 109, Business
Registration.]
CHAPTER 184.
LITTERING
[HISTORY: Adopted by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton as
indicated in article histories. Amendments noted where applicable.]
ARTICLE I.
Depositing of Litter and Handbills
   
§ 184-1.   Word usage and definitions.
   
§ 184-2.   Littering prohibited; use of receptacles.
   
§ 184-3.   Use of town landfill.
   
§ 184-4.   Business owners to keep premises free of litter.
   
§ 184-5.   Littering in bodies of water.
   
§ 184-6.   Dropping litter from aircraft.
   
§ 184-7.   Litter on private property; maintenance of receptacles.
   
§ 184-8.   Responsibility of property owner.
   
§ 184-9.   Littering on vacant lots.
   
§ 184-10.   Removal of litter from private property by town.
   
§ 184-11.   Litter in commercial and industrial places.
   
§ 184-12.   Litter from pets.
   
§ 184-13.   Distribution of handbills in public places.
   
§ 184-14.   Placing handbills on vehicles.
   
§ 184-15.   Depositing handbills on vacant private premises.
   
§ 184-16.   Distribution of handbills prohibited where posted.
   
§ 184-17.   Distributing handbills on inhabited private premises.
   
§ 184-18.   Posting notices in certain public places.
   
§ 184-19.   Balloons, sky lanterns and aerial luminary lanterns.
   §
184-20.   Presumption of violation; issuance of summons; continuing
responsibility; exceptions.
   §
184-21.   Violations and penalties.
ARTICLE II.
Clean Communities Program
   
§ 184-22.   Definitions.
   
§ 184-23.   Litter receptacles and servicing required.
   
§ 184-24.   Prohibited acts.
   
§ 184-25.   Violations and penalties.
   
§ 184-26.   Enforcement.
   §
184-27.   Scope.
GENERAL REFERENCES
   Deposit of dog excrement — See
Ch. 82, §
82-21.
   Parks and recreation areas — See
Ch. 200, 200-4A.
   Property maintenance — See
Ch. 211.
   Abandoned refrigerators — See
Ch. 214.
   Solid waste — See
Ch. 241.
Article I.
Depositing of Litter and Handbills
[Adopted 10-12-1987 by Ord. No. 11-1987]
§ 184-1. Word usage and definitions.
[Amended 12-16-2019 by Ord. No. 28-2019]
   A.   Word usage. When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the
present tense in this chapter include the future, words used in the plural
number include the singular number, and words used in the singular number
include the plural number. The word "shall" is always mandatory and not merely
directory.
   B.   Definitions. As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have
the meanings indicated:
   AERIAL LUMINARY LANTERN – Any device designed to be airborne upon release
into the environmental regardless of fuel source including sky lanterns.
   AUTHORIZED PRIVATE RECEPTACLE – A litter storage and collection receptacle.
   BALLOON – A bag made of thin rubber or other like material inflated with air
or with a lighter-than-air gas.
   COMMERCIAL HANDBILL – Any printed or written matter, any sample or device,
dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, paper, booklet or any other printed or
otherwise reproduced original or copies of any matter of literature which:
      (1)   Advertises for sale any merchandise, product, commodity or thing.
      (2)   Directs attention to any business or mercantile or commercial
establishment or other activity for the purpose of either directly or
indirectly promoting the interest thereof by sales.
      (3)   Directs attention to or advertises any meeting, theatrical
performance, exhibition or event of any kind for which an admission fee is
charged for the purpose of private gain or profit.
      (4)   While containing reading matter other than advertising matter, is
predominantly and essentially an advertisement and is distributed or circulated
for advertising purpose or for the private benefit and gain of any person so
engaged as advertiser or distributor.
   GARBAGE – Putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   LITTER – Garbage, refuse and rubbish, as defined herein, and all other waste
material which, if thrown or deposited as herein prohibited, tends to create a
danger to public health, safety and welfare.
   NEWSPAPER – Any newspaper of general circulation, as defined by general law,
any newspaper duly entered with the United States Postal Service in accordance
with federal statute or regulation and any newspaper filed and recorded with
any recording officer as provided by general law. In addition thereto,
"newspaper" shall mean and include any periodical or current magazine regularly
published with not less than four issues per year and sold to the public. The
term "newspaper" shall not include publications delivered free of charge, not
at the request of the property owner, which consist primarily of advertising
material. Such publications are, for the purpose of this article, to be
considered commercial handbills.
   NONCOMMERCIAL HANDBILL – Any printed or written matter, any sample or
device, dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet newspaper, magazine, paper booklet
or any other printed or otherwise reproduced original copies of any matter of
literature not included in the aforesaid definitions of a commercial handbill
or newspaper.
   PARK – A park, reservation, playground, recreation center or any other
public area in the town, owned or used by the town and devoted to active or
passive recreation.
   PERSON – Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   PRINCIPAL ADVERTISER – In a commercial handbill, the person, firm or
corporation whose advertising message occupies a substantial amount of the
advertising space in the handbill, such that it appears to be the sponsor of
the handbill.
   PRIVATE PREMISES – Any dwelling house, building or other structure designed
or used, either wholly or in part, for private residential purposes, whether
uninhabited or temporarily or continuously inhabited or vacant, including but
not limited to any yard, grounds, walk, driveway, porch, steps, vestibule or
mailbox belonging or appurtenant to such dwelling, house, building or other
structure.
   PUBLIC PLACE – Any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys or other
public ways, paved or unpaved, and any and all public parks, squares, spaces,
grounds and buildings.
   REFUSE – All putrescible and nonputrescible solid wastes, except body
wastes, including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals,
abandoned automobiles and solid market and industrial wastes.
   RUBBISH – Nonputrescible solid wastes consisting of both combustible and
noncombustible wastes, such as paper, wrappings, cigarettes, cardboard, tin
cans, yard clippings, wood, glass, bedding, crockery and similar materials.
   SKY LANTERNS – Airborne paper lanterns that are constructed of oiled rice
paper on a bamboo frame, and contain a small candle or fuel cell composed of a
waxy flammable material.
   TOWN – The Town of Hammonton.
   VEHICLE – Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, including devices used exclusively upon
stationary rails or tracks.
§ 184-2. Littering prohibited; use of receptacles.
   No person shall throw or deposit litter in or upon any street, sidewalk or
other public place within the town except in public receptacles for collection.
Editor's Note: Former § 114-3, Placement of litter in receptacles; § 114-6,
Throwing litter from vehicles; and § 114-7, Litter caused by uncovered vehicle,
which followed this section, were deleted at time of adoption of Code (see
Ch. 1, General Provisions, Art. I).
§ 184-3. Use of town landfill.
   No person shall throw or deposit litter in, at or about the town landfill
except within the confines of said landfill or at a location specified herein,
if a town employee is present and specifies a location, nor shall any person
throw or deposit litter at said landfill or attempt to do so, except during the
hours permitted, as established by the Sanitary Landfill Supervisor or his/her
designee in the Department of Public Works.
§ 184-4. Business owners to keep premises free of litter.
   No person owning or occupying a place of business shall sweep into or
deposit in any gutter, street or other public place within the town the
accumulation of litter from any building or lot or from any public or private
sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying places of business within the
town shall keep their business premises free of litter.
§ 184-5. Littering in bodies of water.
   No person shall throw or deposit litter in any fountain, pond, stream or any
other body of water within the town.
§ 184-6. Dropping litter from aircraft.
   No person, in any aircraft, shall throw out, drop or deposit within the town
any litter, handbill or any other object.
§ 184-7. Litter on private property; maintenance of receptacles.
   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied or unoccupied
private property within the town, whether owned by such person or not, except
that the owner or person in control of private property may maintain authorized
private receptacles for collection in such a manner that litter will be
prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any street,
sidewalk or other public place or upon any private property.
§ 184-8. Responsibility of property owner.
   The owner or person in control of any property shall at all times maintain
the premises free of litter; provided, however, that this section shall not
prohibit the storage of litter in authorized private receptacles for
collection.
§ 184-9. Littering on vacant lots.
   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open or vacant private
property within the town, whether owned by such person or not.
§ 184-10. Removal of litter from private property by town.
   A.   Notice to remove. The Code Enforcement Officer or his/her duly
designated agent is authorized and empowered to notify the owner of any private
premise or vacant land, or the tenant or agent of such owner, to dispose
properly of litter located on such owner's property which is dangerous to
public health, safety or welfare. Notice shall be by registered or certified
mail, return receipt requested, addressed to said property owner or his/her
agent or tenant at his/her last known address or served personally upon said
owner, tenant or agent.
   B.   Action upon noncompliance. Upon the failure, neglect or refusal of any
owner, tenant or agent so notified to dispose properly of said litter within 10
days after receipt of written notice specified in Subsection A of this section,
or within 10 days after the date of such notice in the event that it is
returned to the town by the United States Postal Service because of inability
to make delivery thereof, provided that the notice was properly addressed to
the last known address of the owner, tenant or agent, the Code Enforcement
Officer or his/her duly designated agent is authorized and empowered to pay for
disposing of such litter or to order its disposal by the town.
   C.   When the town has effected the removal of dangerous litter or has paid
for its removal, the actual cost thereof shall, unless paid by the owner prior
thereto, be charged to the owner of the property on the next regular tax bill
forwarded to the owner by the town. The charge shall be due and payable by the
owner at the time set for payment of the tax bill.
   D.   Where the full amount due the town is not paid by the owner within 30
days after the disposal of such litter as specified in Subsections A and B of
this section, then, and in that case, the Code Enforcement Officer shall
certify the cost thereof to the Town Council, which shall examine the
certificate and, if found to be correct, shall cause the cost as shown thereon
to be charged against said lands. The amount so charged shall constitute a lien
on the property and shall remain in full force and effect for the amount due in
principal and interest, plus costs of court, if any, for collection, until
final payment has been made. Said costs and expenses shall be collected in the
manner fixed by law for the collection of taxes and shall be subject to a
delinquent penalty at the same rate as in the case of taxes in the event that
they are not paid in full on or before the date the tax bill upon which the
charge appears becomes delinquent. The certification of the Code Enforcement
Officer in accordance with the provisions hereof shall be prima facie evidence
that all legal formalities have been complied with and that the work has been
done properly and satisfactorily and shall be full notice to every person
concerned that the amount of the statement, plus interest, constitutes a charge
against the property designated or described in the statement and that the same
is due and collectible as provided by law.
§ 184-11. Litter in commercial and industrial places.
   No person shall throw or deposit litter in or upon any commercial or
industrial place except in approved receptacles. Persons owning or in control
of commercial or industrial places must provide receptacles for litter of
sufficient size to be adequate for the area. Owners or tenants are completely
responsible for the policing of the premises. Upon complaint of any citizen or
town official of trash or litter, if it can be determined from which store or
place of business the trash originated, the owner(s) or tenant(s) will be held
responsible.
§ 184-12. Litter from pets.
   The owner of any animal that violates this article shall be subject to the
same penalty as provided for violations generally.
§ 184-13. Distribution of handbills in public places.
   No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial handbill in
or upon any sidewalk, street or other public place within the town, nor shall
any person hand out, distribute or sell any commercial handbill in any public
place; provided, however, that it shall not be unlawful for any person to hand
out or distribute, without charge to the receiver thereof, any noncommercial
handbill to any person willing to accept it.
§ 184-14. Placing handbills on vehicles.
   No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial handbill in
or upon any vehicle; provided, however, that it shall not be unlawful in any
public place for a person to hand out or distribute, without charge to the
receiver thereof, a noncommercial handbill to any occupant of a vehicle who is
willing to accept it.
§ 184-15. Depositing handbills on vacant private premises.
   No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial handbill in
or upon any private premises which are temporarily or continuously uninhabited
or vacant.
§ 184-16. Distribution of handbills prohibited where posted.
   No person shall throw, deposit or distribute any commercial or noncommercial
handbill upon any private premises if requested by anyone thereon not to do so
or if there is placed on said premises in a conspicuous position near the
entrance thereof a sign bearing the words "No Trespassing," "No Peddlers or
Agents," "No Advertisement" or any similar notice, indicating in any manner
that the occupants of said premises do not desire to be molested or have their
rights of privacy disturbed or to have any such handbills left upon such
premises.
§ 184-17. Distributing handbills on inhabited private premises.
   A.   No person shall throw, deposit or distribute or cause to be thrown,
deposited or distributed any commercial or noncommercial handbill in or upon
private premises which are inhabited if the owner of said premises has either
posted said premises as specified in §
184-16 or notified the publisher or distributor of said handbill, by certified
mail, return receipt requested, that no handbills are to be delivered to said
premises. In the case of premises which are not posted and for which no notice
has been sent, a person may place or deposit handbills thereupon, being careful
to secure the same and prevent such handbill from being blown or drifted about
such premises or sidewalks or streets or other public places; mailboxes may not
be so used when so prohibited by federal postal law or regulations.
   B.   Exemption for mail and newspapers. The provisions of § §
184-16 and
184-17A shall not apply to the distribution of mail by the United States, nor
to newspapers, as defined herein, except that newspapers shall be placed on
private property in such a manner as to prevent their being carried or
deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk or other public place or
upon private property.
   C.   The provisions of §§
184-16 and
184-17A shall not apply to the distribution of any noncommercial handbill, the
entire content of which consists of solely religious written matter.
§ 184-18. Posting notices in certain public places.
   No person shall post or affix any notice, poster or other paper or device
calculated to attract the attention of the public to any lamppost, public
utility pole or shade tree or upon any public structure or building, except as
may be authorized or required by law.
§ 184-19. Balloons, sky lanterns and aerial luminary lanterns.
[Added 12-16-2019 by Ord. No. 28-2019]
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or organization
to intentionally release, organize the release of, or intentionally cause to be
released untethered sky lanterns or aerial luminary lanterns or similar
devices.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or organization
to intentionally release, organize the release of, or intentionally cause to be
released balloons inflated with air or a gas that is lighter-than-air within
the Town of Hammonton except:
      (1)   Balloons released for a specific scientific or meteorological
purpose by a governmental agency pursuant to a governmental contract or by a
recognized educational institution;
      (2)   Balloons which are tethered and retrieved by the releaser;
      (3)   Hot air balloons which are designed to be and which are recovered;
and
      (4)   Balloons which are released indoors and which are not subject to be
released into the atmosphere.
§ 184-20. Presumption of violation; issuance of summons; continuing
responsibility; exceptions.
   A.   There shall be a rebut table presumption that an owner or person in
control of any private property has violated this article and failed to keep
and maintain the premises free of litter, as the term is used in this article,
if the litter, as defined herein, remains on the property and is not removed
for a period in excess of 24 hours.
   B.   No notice or warning by or to any person is required prior to the
issuance of a summons or complaint for any violation of this article; however,
nothing herein shall be deemed to prevent the issuance of said notice or
warning permitting a reasonable time period for the removal of litter prior to
the issuance of said summons or complaint.
   C.   The fact of the charging or conviction of any person for the throwing
or depositing of litter in violation of this article shall not relieve the
owner or person in control of any private property of the responsibility to
keep and maintain the property free of litter in accordance with the provisions
of this article.
   D.   The provisions of this article shall not apply to the offices and
employees of the Town Department of Public Works in the exercise of their trash
collection activities; nor shall the provisions hereof apply to the deposit and
maintenance of litter in a location, suitably enclosed in a secured trash
dumpster, trash can or trash bag, along the street line, suitable for town or
other authorized trash collection, for a period not to exceed one day.
§ 184-21. Violations and penalties.
Any person, firm, corporation or other entity convicted of a violation of this
article, or any section hereof, shall be subject to one or more of the
following: a fine of not more than $1,000, imprisonment for a period not to
exceed 90 days or a period of community service not to exceed 90 days. In
addition, any person, firm, corporation or other entity convicted of a
violation of this article shall pay all expenses incurred for the removal of
said litter. Each day that any violation hereunder shall continue shall be
deemed a separate offense or violation.
Article II.
Clean Communities Program
[Adopted 2-26-1990 by Ord. No. 3-1990; amended in its entirety 3-26-1990 by
Ord. No. 10-1990]
§ 184-22. Definitions.
For the purposes and use in this article, the following term, phrases, words
and their deviations shall have the meanings given herein:
   LITTER – Any used or consumed substance or waste material measuring less
than one cubic foot which has been discarded, whether made of aluminum, glass,
plastic, rubber, paper or other natural or synthetic material, or any
combination thereof, including but not limited to any bottle, jar or can or any
top, cap or detachable tab of any bottle, jar or can, any lighted or unlighted
cigarette, cigar, match or any flaming or glowing material or any garbage,
trash, refuse, debris, rubbish, grass clippings or other lawn or garden waste,
newspaper, magazines, glass, metal, plastic or paper containers or other
packaging or construction material, but does not include the waste of the
primary processes of mining or other extraction processes, logging, sawmilling,
farming, or manufacturing.
   LITTER RECEPTACLE – A container suitable for the depositing of litter.
   SOLID WASTE – Garbage, refuse and other discarded materials resulting from
industrial, commercial and agricultural operations, and from domestic and
community activities, and shall include all other waste materials, including
liquids, except for liquids which are treated in the public sewage treatment
plants and except for solid animal and vegetable wastes collected by swine
producers licensed by the State Department of Agriculture to collect, prepare
and feed such wastes to swine on their own farms.
   TOWN PROPERTY – Any land, water or building owned by and controlled or
leased, occupied and controlled by the Town of Hammonton, including any land or
water used for recreation or conservation purposes and any street, road,
highway, alley, sidewalk or other right-of-way.
§ 184-23. Litter receptacles and servicing required.
Litter receptacles and their servicing are required at the following public
places which exist in the Town of Hammonton, including sidewalks used by
pedestrians in active retail commercially zoned areas, such that at a minimum
there shall be no single linear quarter mile without a receptacle; buildings
held out for the use by the public, including schools, government buildings and
railroad and bus stations; parks; drive-in restaurants; all street vendor
locations; self-service refreshment areas; construction sites; gasoline service
station islands; shopping centers; parking lots; campgrounds and trailer parks;
marinas, boat moorage and fueling stations; boat launching areas; public and
private piers operated for public use; beaches and bathing areas; at special
events to which the public is invited, including but not limited to sporting
events, parades, carnivals and circuses, and the event sponsor shall be
responsible for providing and servicing the receptacles such that adequate
containerization is available.
§ 184-24.  Prohibited acts.
   A.   Storage of vehicles. It shall be unlawful for any residential property
owner to park or permit the parking of any vehicle on his or her residential
lawn.
   B.   Inoperable vehicles. It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or
permit the keeping of on streets, vacant lots and residential lawns, except in
a fully enclosed structure, any motor vehicle, trailer or semi trailer which is
missing tires, wheels, engine or any essential parts; or which displays
extensive body damage or deterioration; or which does not display a current,
valid state license; or which is wrecked, disassembled or partially
disassembled.
   C.   Uncovered vehicles. It shall be unlawful for any vehicle to be driven,
moved, stopped or parked on any highway unless such a vehicle is constructed or
loaded to prevent any of its load from dropping, sifting, leaking or otherwise
escaping there from. Any person operating a vehicle from which any glass,
liquid or objects have fallen or escaped, which could cause an obstruction,
damage a vehicle or otherwise endanger travelers or public property shall
immediately cause the public property to be cleaned of all glass, liquid or
objects and shall pay the costs thereof.
   D.   Littering.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, drop, discard or
otherwise place any litter upon town property other than in a litter
receptacle.
      (2)   With respect to any litter thrown from a conveyance, whether in
motion or not, when such conveyance is on town property, there shall be rebut
table presumption that the registered owner of the conveyance, if present in
the conveyance, or, in his/her absence, the driver of the conveyance, is
presumed to be responsible for any violation of this section, if:
         (a)   A bundle, object, article or debris of any nature is thrown or
dropped from the conveyance by the occupant of the conveyance;
         (b)   There are two or more occupants in the conveyance; and
         (c)   It cannot be determined which occupant of the conveyance is the
violator.
   E.   Illegal dumping. It shall be unlawful for any person to discard or dump
any solid waste in any place not specifically designated and authorized
pursuant to N.J.S.A. 13:1E-1 et seq. for the purposes of solid waste
collection, storage or disposal.
§ 184-25. Violations and penalties.
Any person convicted of violating this article shall be subject to one or more
of the following: a fine of not more than $1,000, imprisonment for a period not
to exceed 90 days or a period of community service not to exceed 90 days. If
the violation is of a continuing nature, each day during which it continues
constitutes a separate and distinct offense.
§ 184-26. Enforcement.
This article shall be enforceable by any law enforcement officer and by any
Town of Hammonton Police Special Services Unit officer, including the Hammonton
Fire Marshal.
§ 184-27. Scope.
Nothing in this article is intended to nor shall be construed to limit the
jurisdiction of the Atlantic County Division of Public Health or the Department
of Environmental Protection to enforce violations of the Solid Waste Management
Act (N.J.S.A. 13:1E-1 et seq.). The County Environmental Code, nor limit the
jurisdiction of law enforcement officials to prosecute for the violation of
statutes not covered by the terms of this article.
CHAPTER 190.
NOISE
[Adopted 12-16-2019 by Ord. No. 30-2019. Former Ch. 190, Noise, which consisted
of Art. I, Compression Release Engine Brakes, adopted 7-25-2005 by Ord. No. 28-
2005, was repealed 12-19-2005 by Ord. No. 44-2005.]
ARTICLE I
Noise
   §
190-1.   Applicability.
   §
190-2.   Definitions.
   §
190-3.   Noise prohibited at certain times.
   §
190-4.   Prohibited acts.
   §
190-5.   Exceptions.
   §
190-6.   Violations and penalties.
   §
190-7.   Noise prohibited at all times.
ARTICLE I
Noise
§ 190-1. Applicability.
[Added 12-16-2019 by Ord. No. 30-2019]
It is hereby found and declared that:
   A.   The making and creation of loud, unnecessary or unusual noises within
the limits of the Town of Hammonton is a condition which has existed for some
time and the extent and volume of noises is increasing;
   B.   The making, creation or maintenance of loud, unnecessary, unnatural or
unusual noises which are prolonged, unusual or unnatural in their time, place
and use affect and are detrimental to the public health, comfort, convenience,
safety, welfare and prosperity of the residents of the Town of Hammonton.
   C.   The necessity in the public interests for the provisions and
prohibitions hereinafter contained is declared as a matter of legislative
determination and public policy, and it is further declared that the provisions
and prohibitions hereinafter contained are in pursuant of and for the purpose
of securing and promoting the public health, comfort, convenience, safety,
welfare and peace and quiet of the Town of Hammonton and its inhabitants.
§ 190-2. Definitions.
[Added 12-16-2019 by Ord. No. 30-2019]
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated:
   SOUND-AMPLIFYING EQUIPMENT – Any machine or device for the amplification of
the human voice, music, or any other sounds, but not be construed as including
standard automobile radios when used and heard only by occupants of the
vehicles in which they are installed, or warning devices on authorized
emergency vehicles, or horns or other devices used only for traffic safety
purposes.
   SOUND TRUCK – Any motor vehicle, horse-drawn vehicle or any other means of
conveyance whatsoever, having mounted thereon, or attached hereto, any sound-
amplifying equipment.
§ 190-3. Noise prohibited at certain times. 
[Added 12-16-2019 by Ord. No. 30- 2019; amended 2-22-2021 by Ord. No. 002-2021]
It shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue or use to be made or
continued any loud, unnecessary or unusual noise or any noise which either
annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace or
safety of others within the limits of the Town of Hammonton. Such noise is
prohibited, except as set forth in §
190-4A.(12), between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m., on Monday, Tuesday,
Wednesday, Thursday and Friday; and the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. on
the days of Saturday and Sunday, in a manner as to be plainly audible at a
distance of 50 feet from the building, structure, vehicle, or place in which
the noise is emanating shall be prima face evidence of a violation of this
section.
§ 190-4. Prohibited acts.
[Added 12-16-2019 by Ord. No. 30-2019]
   A.   The following acts are hereby declared to be examples of loud,
disturbing and unnecessary noises in violation of this article, but said
enumerations shall not be deemed to be exclusive:
      (1)   Radios; televisions; phonographs. The using, operating, or
permitting to be played, used or operated, of any radio-receiving set,
television, musical instrument, phonograph or other machine or device for the
producing or reproducing of sound in such manner as to disturb the peace, quiet
and comfort of the neighboring inhabitants or with louder volume than is
necessary for convenient hearing for the person or persons who are in the room,
vehicle or chamber in which the machine or devices is operated and who are
voluntary listeners.
      (2)   Loudspeakers; amplifiers for advertising. The using, operating, or
permitting to be played, used or operated, of any radio-receiving set, musical
instrument, phonograph, loudspeaker, sound amplifier or other machine or device
for the producing or reproducing of sound which is cast upon the public streets
for the purposes of commercial advertising, or attracting the attention of the
public to any building or structure.
      (3)   Yelling; shouting. Yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling or singing
on the public streets, particularly between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00
a.m., on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday; and the hours of 11:
00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. on the days of Saturday and Sunday, or at any other time
or place so as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of persons in
any office, dwelling, apartment or other type of residence or of any persons in
the vicinity.
      (4)   Animals.
      (a)   Notwithstanding the provisions of any chapter in the Town of
Hammonton Code, the keeping of any animals or birds which, by causing frequent
or long continued noise, shall disturb the comfort or response of any person in
the vicinity, but nothing herein contained is intended to apply to a dog pound
of kennel licensed in accordance with this Code. See also, §§
82-20 and
82-21 of the Ordinances of the Town of Hammonton.
      (5)   Horns; signaling devices. The sounding of any horn or signaling
device on any automobile, motorcycle, bus, streetcar or other vehicle, except
when required by law, or when necessary to give timely warning of the approach
of the vehicle, or as a warning of impending danger to persons driving other
vehicles, or of persons upon the street: the creation by means of any signaling
device of any unreasonably loud or harsh sound, or for any unnecessary period
of time; the use of any signaling device except one operated by hand or
electrically; the use of any horn, whistle or other device operated by engine
exhaust; and the use of any signaling device when traffic is held up for any
reason.
      (6)   Steam whistles. The blowing of any steam whistle attached to any
stationary boiler, except to give notice of the time to begin or stop work, or
as a warning of danger, or as a signal or warning in connection with civil
defense, fire or ambulance calls, or upon request of the proper municipal
authorities.
      (7)   Exhaust. The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any
internal combustion engine, except through an adequate muffler or other device
which will effectively prevent loud or excessive noises therefrom. (See
N.J.S.A. 39:3-70 for the State law regarding muffler requirements on motor
vehicles and Chapter 6, Watercraft Noise Control, 7:6-6.1 of the New Jersey
Rules and Regulations). This restriction includes, by way of example and not by
way of limitation, internal combustion engines powering motor vehicles,
motorboats, watercrafts, vessels, chain saws and lawnmowers).
      (8)   Defect in vehicle or load. The use of any automobile, motorcycle or
vehicle so out of repair, so loaded or in such manner as to create loud and
unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling or other noise.
      (9)   Schools; courts; churches; hospitals. The creation of any excessive
noise on any street adjacent to any school, institution of learning, church or
court while the same is in use, or adjacent to any hospital which unreasonably
interferes with the working of the institution or which disturbs or unduly
annoys patients in the hospital, provided conspicuous signs are displayed in
such street indicating that the same is a school, hospital or court street.
      (10)   Drums. The use of any drums or other instrument or device for the
purpose of attracting attention by creation of noise of any performance, show
or sale.
      (11)   Hawkers; peddlers. The shouting and crying of peddlers, hawkers,
and vendors which disturb the peace and quiet of the neighborhood.
      (12)   Pile drivers; hammers. The operation other than between the hours
of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m., Monday through Saturday, of any pile driver, steam
shovel, bulldozer or other earthmoving machinery, pneumatic hammer, derrick,
steam or electric hoist or other appliance, the use of which is attended by
loud or unusual noise.
      (13)   Miscellaneous night noises. The "warming up" of diesel motors of
motor vehicles, except when located at an existing, operating commercial or
industrial business operation; creation of loud or excessive noise in
connection with loading or unloading of any vehicle; the repair, erection or
demolition of any building, the operation of any lawn mower, weed-cutting
device or other lawn equipment or the creation of any other loud or raucous
sound or noise between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m., Monday through
Friday and 11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. Saturday and Sunday, in proximity of any
dwelling, residence or other inhabited buildings.
   B.   The above enumeration is only intended to give typical illustrations of
prohibited noise and shall not be construed as exclusive.
§ 190-5. Exceptions.
[Added 12-16-2019 by Ord. No. 30-2019]
Nothing herein contained shall be construed to apply to:
   A.   The use of bells or chimes by churches in church activities.
   B.   Activities of the municipal departments in the performance of their
duties, drills, public demonstrations, or disaster warning, alert or alarm
systems.
   C.   Publicly sponsored activities on public streets, sidewalks, in the
public parks, playgrounds or public buildings under the permission or authority
of the municipal officials.
   D.   The playing of a band or orchestra in a hall or building or in the open
air during a publicly sponsored performance.
   E.   Any public utility as defined in Title 48 of the New Jersey Statutes,
or to any employees of a public utility when the public utility or its
employees are engaged in performing work to prevent the threatened interruption
of its services, or to terminate the interruption of its service rendered to
its customers.
   F.   The use of school bells, alarms or sound amplifiers by schools.
   G.   Parades conducted in compliance with the Ordinances of the Town of
Hammonton.
   H.   Activities or event approved by Town Council through Resolution or
Ordinance.
   I.   Refrigeration units attached to commercial vehicles required for the
transportation of those goods that require same.
§ 190-6. Violations and penalties.
[Added 12-16-2019 by Ord. No. 30-2019]
   A.   Violation of any provision of this chapter shall be cause for a
Municipal Court summons to be issued by the Police Department, Code Enforcement
Official, or any member of the general public who is affected by excessive
noise.
   B.   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this article or
any Order promulgated hereunder shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine
of not more than $2,000.00, imprisonment for not more than 90 days and/or a
period of community service for not more than 90 days. Each violation of any
provisions of this article and each day that such violation shall continue
shall be deemed to be a separate and distinct offense.
§ 190-7. Noise prohibited at all times.
[Added 2-22-2021 by Ord. No. 002-2021]
   Notwithstanding §
190-3, it shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue or use to be made
or continued any loud or disturbing noise that significantly interferes with
the public peace, the public comfort or the public convenience of others within
the Town of Hammonton, at any time. It shall be prima facie evidence of a
violation of this Section if the noise is plainly audible at a distance of
1,320 feet (0.25 miles) from the building, structure, vehicle or place in which
the noise is emanating. The exceptions set forth in §
190-5 shall be applicable to this §
190-7. Any person who shall violate this §
190-7 shall be subject to the violations and penalties set forth in §
190-6.
CHAPTER 193.
OBSCENITY
[HISTORY: Adopted by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton 10-
27-1980 by Ord. No. 21-1980. Amendments noted where applicable.]
   
§ 193-1.   Distribution or display prohibited.
   
§ 193-2.   Definitions.
   
§ 193-3.   Submission of materials to Review Committee; time limit for
decision.
   
§ 193-4.   Violations and penalties.
   
§ 193-5.   Interpretation and enforcement.
§ 193-1. Distribution or display prohibited.
   The commercial distribution or commercial display of obscene materials or
acts to anyone, particularly minors and including consenting adults, is hereby
prohibited.
§ 193-2. Definitions.
   As used in this chapter, the following words shall have the meanings
indicated:
   COMMERCIAL DISPLAY
   The exhibition of obscene material, which is obscene to the senses of
another person, for valuable consideration, whether the valuable consideration
is paid by the recipient of the exhibition or by another. Where obscene
material is exhibited incident to another commercial transaction, it is a
commercial display, whether or not the parties state that the valuable
consideration is paid in part for the obscene exhibit.
   COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION
   Any transfer or possession, whether temporary or permanent, for any valuable
consideration, whether the valuable consideration is paid by the recipient of
the obscene material or by another. Where obscene material is transferred
incident to another commercial transaction, it is a commercial distribution,
whether or not the parties state that the valuable consideration is paid in
part for the obscene material.
   OBSCENE MATERIALS AND ACTS
   A.   FILMS and MOVING PICTURES — A film or moving picture is obscene if,
when considered as a whole, its calculated purpose or dominate effect is:
      (1)   Substantially to arouse sexual desires, whether natural or
unnatural, and if the probability of this effect is so great as to outweigh
whatever other merits the film may possess.
      (2)   To portray acts of sexual immorality or lewdness as profitable,
desirable, acceptable or proper behavior.
      (3)   To advocate the illegal use of narcotics or habit-forming drugs.
   B.   PHOTOGRAPHS, PAINTINGS or ILLUSTRATIONS — A photograph, painting or
illustration is obscene if it portrays human sexual intercourse, homosexual
acts, sadistic sexual acts, sexual acts between man and beast or human sexual
organs. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a photograph, painting or illustration
which portrays human sexual organs is not obscene if it is part of a medical
textbook or it is a work of art, the original or a copy of which has been
displayed by a museum receiving public funds or the subject of which is the
human body as a whole without particular emphasis on its sexual parts and, if
considered as a whole, its calculated purpose or dominate effect is not to
substantially arouse sexual desires, whether natural or unnatural, so as to
outweigh whatever other merits it may possess.
   C.   BOOKS and MAGAZINES — A book or magazine containing photographs,
paintings or illustrations of the type defined as obscene in Subsection B above
is obscene if, considered as a whole, its calculated purpose or dominate effect
is substantially to arouse sexual desires, whether natural or unnatural, and if
the probability of this effect is so great so as to outweigh whatever other
merits it may possess. A book or magazine containing no photographs, paintings
or illustrations shall not be considered obscene for purposes of this chapter.
   D.   OBJECTS — An object is obscene if it is by itself a recognizable
reproduction of a sexual organ or if some part of it consists of a recognizable
reproduction of sexual organs substantially exaggerated in size or appearance.
   E.   ACTS — An act is obscene if it involves the naked display of sexual
organs or if it is explicitly suggestive of sexual acts or if it involves
sexual acts.
§ 193-3. Submission of materials to Review Committee; time limit for decision.
   A.   Any person desiring to make a commercial distribution or commercial
display of obscene materials and/or acts, as hereinabove defined, or which he/
she has reason to believe may be obscene, shall first submit it for inspection
by the Review Committee consisting of the Mayor, a consenting elected or
appointed official of the Town of Hammonton and a consenting resident of said
town who is registered to vote therein, the latter two to be appointed by and
serve at the pleasure of the Town Council without compensation, which Review
Committee shall act by a majority of the members thereof.
   B.   The applicant shall give the Review Committee written notice of his/her
intention to submit any obscene materials and/or acts for inspection. Said
notice shall be delivered to the Review Committee or to the Town Clerk/
Administrator and shall contain the applicant's name, address within the
municipality and telephone number where he/she can be reached during normal
business hours. Within 48 hours (Saturdays, Sundays and holidays excepted) of
receipt of said notice, the Review Committee shall make itself available to
said applicant during normal business hours for the purpose of inspecting and/
or reviewing the obscene materials and/or potentially obscene materials and/or
acts. The Review Committee shall notify the applicant of the appointed time,
either by telephone or by written notice left at the address within the
municipality stated by the applicant, when said review shall take place. The
failure of the applicant to cooperate in any way in arranging a time for
inspection within said forty-eight-hour period shall not relieve said applicant
of the duty to submit the materials for inspection as soon thereafter as
possible and prior to any commercial distribution or commercial display. The
applicant shall bring said obscene materials and/or acts and/or potentially
obscene materials and/or acts, together with any necessary projector, screen,
operating personnel and/or other required paraphernalia, to the Review
Committee or Town Clerk/Administrator at the Town Hall for the Town of
Hammonton, whereupon the applicant shall demonstrate and/or otherwise permit
inspection of said obscene materials and/or acts and/or potentially obscene
materials and/or acts by the Review Committee. Within 72 hours (Saturdays,
Sundays and holidays excepted) of the determination of said inspection, the
Review Committee shall either inform the applicant in writing of its
disapproval or approval of the materials and/or acts inspected and that it may
or may not be commercially distributed or commercially displayed without fear
of prosecution under this chapter or that the municipality will seek to have
the same enjoined if necessary because of its obscene character, whichever
shall be the decision of the Review Committee.
   C.   It shall be a violation of this section to make commercial distribution
or commercial display of any material submitted for inspection as hereinabove
set forth prior to the expiration of said seventy-two-hour period. Nothing
contained herein shall prevent the applicant from making commercial
distribution or commercial display of said materials and/or acts after the end
of said seventy-two-hour period, subject to any judicial restraints imposed and
subject further to any penalties set forth hereafter in this chapter, should
said materials and/or acts ultimately be adjudged obscene by a court of law.
§ 193-4. Violations and penalties.
   Anyone having violated any section of this chapter shall be subject to one
or more of the following: a fine of not more than $1,000, imprisonment for a
period not to exceed 90 days or a period of community service not to exceed 90
days. Each separate film, moving picture, photograph, painting, illustration,
book, magazine, object and/or act (and each issue of them) which is
commercially distributed or commercially displayed in violation of this chapter
shall constitute a separate offense under this chapter. Each separate
commercial distribution or commercial display, whether to different persons or
to the same person, in violation of this chapter shall constitute a separate
offense under this chapter.
§ 193-5. Interpretation and enforcement.
   Notwithstanding any other section, clause or provision of this chapter to
the contrary, the definitions of "obscene" and "obscenity," for all purposes of
interpretation and enforcement of this chapter, shall be construed in
accordance with and in no event more strictly than the criteria set forth by
the state statutes or case law of the State of New Jersey, effective as of the
date of the passage of this chapter, as the same may be from time to time
amended as supplemented, as well as in accordance and not more strictly
construed than judicial interpretations thereof pursuant to the Constitution of
the United States and of the State of New Jersey finally concluded in courts of
jurisdiction sufficient to render decisions on constitutional questions having
general application.
CHAPTER 195.
(RESERVED)
[Former Ch. 195, Open Space and Recreation, adopted 3-22-1999 by Ord. No. 2-
1999, as amended, was repealed 8-28-2006 by Ord. No. 16-2006]
CHAPTER 197.
PARKING, OFF-STREET
[HISTORY: Adopted by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton as
indicated in article histories. Amendments noted where applicable.]
ARTICLE I.
Authority
   
§ 197-1.   Authority to regulate vehicular and pedestrian traffic in public
parking places.
   
§ 197-2.   Authority to preserve public safety and welfare.
   
§ 197-3.   Authority of Police and Fire Departments.
ARTICLE II.
Handicapped Parking Zones
   
§ 197-4.   Restricted parking zones designated.
   
§ 197-5.   Violations and penalties.
GENERAL REFERENCES
   Parking of motor vehicles in parks — See
Ch. 200.
   Taxicabs — See
Ch. 257.
   Vehicles and traffic — See
Ch. 271.
Article I.
Authority
[Adopted 1-28-1980 by Ord. No. 1-1980]
§ 197-1. Authority to regulate vehicular and pedestrian traffic in public
parking places.
   In addition to the powers conferred to a municipality under N.J.S.A. 39:4-
197 concerning the adoption of ordinances for the regulation of entrances to
and exits from parking yards, the governing body of the Town of Hammonton may
make, amend, repeal and enforce ordinances to regulate vehicular and pedestrian
traffic and the parking of vehicles in parking yards and parking places which
are open to the public or to which the public is invited, whether maintained or
operated separately or in conjunction with any business or enterprise.
§ 197-2. Authority to preserve public safety and welfare.
   The Town of Hammonton may establish requirements for placement and types of
lighting and signs, regulate and control noisy or boisterous persons or things,
require installation and maintenance of internal traffic directional lines and
take such other action as may be reasonably required to preserve and safeguard
public health, safety, morals and welfare.
§ 197-3. Authority of Police and Fire Departments.
Editor's Note: Amended at time of adoption of Code (see
Ch. 1, General Provisions, Art. I). The governing body of the Town of Hammonton
shall authorize the officials in charge of the Fire and Police Departments to
exercise exclusive municipal control of traffic in public parking yards,
parking places and fire areas.
Article II.
Handicapped Parking Zones
[Adopted 7-9-1984 by Ord. No. 12-1984]
§ 197-4. Restricted parking zones designated.
   Pursuant to N.J.S.A. 39:4-197(3)c, there are hereby designated restricted
parking spaces for use by persons who have been issued special vehicle
identification cards by the Division of Motor Vehicles, pursuant to the
provisions of Section 2 of Chapter 280 of the Laws of 1949 (N.J.S.A. 39:4-205)
and Section 1 of Chapter 202 of the Laws of 1977 (N.J.S.A. 39:4-197.5), in the
following locations:
Location Number of Spaces
Location                                         Number of Spaces
Atlantic County Library                          2
Hammonton Shopping Plaza                         8
James way Shopping Plaza                         8
New Jersey Employment Office                     4
Hammonton Town Hall                              1
Hammonton Middle School, Vine Street             1
Hammonton Elementary School                      1
Hammonton High School                            1
Kessler Hospital                                 8
Wendy's                                          2
Ponderosa                                        2
Burger King                                      2
McDonald's                                       1
First Federal Savings and Loan (Bellevue Avenue) 1
Hammonton Cold Cuts                              1
Hammonton Motor Inn                              6
Bagliani's Market                                2
 
§ 197-5. Violations and penalties.
[Added 7-9-1984 by Ord. No. 13-1984; amended 6-28-2004 by Ord. No. 13-2004]
   The fine for unauthorized parking in a restricted parking space pursuant to
Chapter 197 shall be $250 for the first offense and a fine of $250, plus a
maximum of 90 days' community service for all subsequent offenses.
CHAPTER 200.
PARKS AND RECREATION AREAS
[HISTORY: Adopted by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton 3-9-
1981 by Ord. No. 4-1981. Amendments noted where applicable.]
   
§ 200-1.   Purpose.
   
§ 200-1A.   Definitions.
   
§ 200-2.   Hours of operation.
   
§ 200-3.   Permits for special events required.
   
§ 200-4.   Prohibited conduct.
   
§ 200-5.   Parking of motor vehicles.
   
§ 200-6.   Enforcement.
   
§ 200-7.   Permit fees.
   
§ 200-8.   Field scheduling.
   
§ 200-9.    Violations and penalties.
   
§ 200-10.   Construal of provisions.
   
§ 200-11.   “Adopt-a-Park” program.
GENERAL REFERENCES
   Board of Park Commissioners — See
Ch. 6, Art. II.
   Waterfowl near Hammonton Lake — See
Ch. 82, Art. III.
   Boats on Hammonton Lake — See
Ch. 99.
   Curfew at Hammonton Lake Park — See
Ch. 119.
§ 200-1. Purpose.
   It is hereby declared to be for the best interest, health, safety and
general welfare of the residents and citizens of the Town of Hammonton that
rules and regulations be promulgated and enacted for the control of public
parks and recreation areas in the Town of Hammonton.
§ 200-1A. Definitions.
[Added 3-26-2018 by Ord. No. 010-2018]
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the
meanings indicated:
   DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION — Duly appointed personnel of the Town,
including the Director of Parks and Recreation and their designated staff
members.
   PARK(S)/RECREATION AREA(S) — Includes but is not limited to a park,
playground, recreation or senior center or any other public area owned or used
by the Town or local authorized government agencies and devoted to active or
passive recreation.
   BOARD OF PARK COMMISSION — The Board of Park Commission is responsible for
guiding the administrative policy of Hammonton Town park(s) and recreation area
(s) as well as steering future development of facilities to serve the residents
of Hammonton.
§ 200-2. Hours of operation.
[Amended 3-26-2018 by Ord. No. 010-2018]
   A.   Except for unusual and unforeseen emergencies, parks shall be open to
the public every day of the year during designated hours. The opening and
closing hours for each individual park shall be posted therein for public
information and shall be determined from time to time by the Board of Park
Commissioners.
   B.   Any section or part of any park may be declared closed to the public by
the Board of Park Commissioners at any time and for any interval of time,
either temporarily or at regular and stated intervals (daily or otherwise) and
either entirely or merely to certain uses, as the Board of Park Commissioners
shall find reasonably necessary.
   C.   Hours. The following hours of use have been established:
      (1)   11th Street Park: sunrise to sunset.
      (2)   Front Street Park: sunrise to sunset.
      (3)   Veterans Park: sunrise to sunset.
      (4)   Hammonton Lake Park: sunrise to sunset; except for the ball fields
until 11:00 p.m.
      (5)   Hammonton Recreation Complex: sunrise to sunset; except for lighted
fields until 11:00 p.m.
      (6)   Key Club Park: sunrise to sunset.
      (7)   Centennial Drive Playgrounds: sunrise to sunset.
   D.   Exceptions. The provisions of this chapter shall not be applicable
when:
      (1)   A function is being held or is being sponsored by the Town for a
religious, school, civic or properly supervised event or program.
      (2)   A supervised social meeting, gathering or assemblage for which a
property permit has been issued.
   E.   Rules and regulations. The following rules and regulations are hereby
established, and it shall be unlawful to violate any of the said rules and
regulations:
      (1)   No person shall act in a loud, indecent, obscene or offensive
manner.
      (2)   No person shall revel, disport or behave in a noisy and boisterous
manner, emitting loud cries and other noises, so as to inconvenience others, or
otherwise disrupt and disturb the public peace and dignity within the park(s)
and recreation area(s) defined or such adjacent areas. Use of profane, loud,
threatening, insulting, indecent and abusive language is prohibited.
      (3)   No person shall drive and/or operate mini-bikes, motor scooters,
motorbikes, go-carts, swamp buggies and snowmobiles and any other similar type
of motor-driven vehicle within the park(s) and recreation area(s). Golf carts
(gas and electric) are permitted for use by Category I, II, and III
organizations with the approval of the Hammonton Park Commission.
      (4)   The starting or maintenance of an open fire or fires in the park(s)
and recreation area(s) at any time during the entire year is prohibited.
      (5)   Pets brought into the park(s) and recreation area(s) shall be
confined or under direct control and on a leash. All pet owners must abide by
Town regulations and are responsible for cleaning up after their pet(s).
Animals trained to assist the disabled are permitted in all areas.
      (6)   No person shall carry or possess firearms of any description, or
air rifles, spring guns, bow and arrows, slings or any other forms of weapons
potentially inimical to wildlife and dangerous to human safety, or any
instrument that can be loaded with and fire blank cartridges, or any kind of
trapping device. Shooting into park(s) and recreation area(s) from beyond park
boundaries is forbidden.
      (7)   The Recreation Commission shall be authorized to establish any
other rules and regulation governing parks which it deems appropriate.
      (8)   No person shall engage in smoking of any kind or use tobacco
products while in any park(s) and recreation area(s) listed in Ordinance No.
036-2014. Smoking is defined as the act of lighting by fire by any means, and/
or the act of inhaling, exhaling, burning, or the carrying of any lit smoke
product, including, but not limited to, a cigarette, cigar, pipe, electronic
smoking device, tobacco, weed, plant or other vegetation or similar material.
"Tobacco products" encompasses all smokeless tobacco, including, but not
limited to, chewing tobacco, loose-leaf tobacco, tobacco pellets, plug tobacco,
twist or rope tobacco, dipping tobacco and dissolvable tobacco.
      (9)   The Director of Parks and Recreation, in conjunction with the Board
of Park Commissioners, reviews and approves all park(s) and recreation area(s)
use requests for the Town. The Department of Parks and Recreation then works
with its sponsored youth organizations and permitted groups to schedule the use
of all fields and facilities located in Hammonton Town park(s) and recreation
area(s).
      (10)   Field closure for maintenance to preserve the quality of Hammonton
Town park(s) and recreation area(s) to allow for appropriate rest and repair of
turf areas will be identified by the Director of Parks and Recreation and their
designated staff members. Mandatory field closure periods will be identified by
park(s) and/or recreation area(s). The closed park(s) and/or recreation area(s)
will be identified by posted signs and/or fencing and the organization's
contact person will be notified. Consequences for not adhering to the field
closure periods will result in the following:
         (a)   First offense: written warning to the organization
representative. Security deposit will be forfeited and retained by the Town of
Hammonton.
         (b)   Second offense: a monetary penalty of $500 will be imposed and
must be paid to the Town of Hammonton. Use of facilities will be suspended
until such time as the penalty is paid in full and any or all future permitted
use will be canceled.
         (c)   Third offense: hearing before the Hammonton Town Parks and
Recreation Commission with a potential loss of the field use permit for the
organization.
      (11)   Athletic fields may be closed due to inclement weather or
saturated conditions. If a field is to be determined closed or deemed
unplayable by Hammonton Town authorized staff on weekdays, notice will be sent
to the appropriate league/organization contact person via email by 2:00 p.m.
that day. At later weekday times and weekends, each organization is required to
cancel its permitted activity if injury may result to participants or if damage
to the playing surface or facility may occur. Users must notify the Director of
Parks and Recreation, or designated staff member, if the organization closed
the field so other users questioning whether to close their fields can be so
advised. If there is any doubt, the field should be closed and all activities
canceled. Consequences for not adhering to the above closure requirements will
result in the consequences for offenses stated above in Subsection 11. Field
use is prohibited in the following circumstances:
         (a)   It is closed for renovation or repair;
         (b)   Water is standing on the field;
         (c)   Soil is frozen;
         (d)   The soil is wet and "spongy";
         (e)   Grass can be dislodged from the field easily;
         (f)   Steady rain is falling;
         (g)   A lightning/electrical storm is occurring; and
         (h)   The field is deemed unplayable by staff from the Department of
Parks and Recreation and/or Public Works due to other unforeseen condition or
vandalism.
      (12)   All managers, coaches, or persons in charge of a group using the
park(s) and recreation area(s) will be responsible for the conduct of all
participants, spectators and others connected with the activity, including
visiting teams and opponents. Group users must inform their participants of the
conduct rules. Users must clean up after themselves (i.e., trash, recycling,
etc.) and managers, coaches, or persons in charge of a group must inspect the
park(s) and recreation area(s) before leaving. All trash must be placed in
proper receptacles. Users are expected to leave the park(s) and recreation area
(s) in the same or better condition in which it was found.
      (13)   Warm-ups for the next scheduled event must be performed so as not
to interfere with existing event and so as not to endanger the welfare of all
participants, spectators and facilities.
      (14)   Use or possession of alcoholic beverages or controlled substances
of any kind are prohibited.
      (15)   No field user may put down lines, significantly or permanently
alter, or make any changes to a park and/or recreation area.
      (16)   The Town may remove any article or property found in a park(s) and
recreation area(s) after hours of operation at the owner's expense.
      (17)   No person or organization shall post by any means or erect or
cause to be erected any sign, placard, advertisement, or inscription, in any
Town park(s) and recreation area(s), without authorization from the Department
of Parks and Recreation.
§ 200-3. Permits for special events required.
[Amended 3-26-2018 by Ord. No. 010-2018]
   Permits for special events in parks shall be obtained by application to the
Board of Park Commissioners in accordance with the following procedures:
   A.   A person seeking issuance of a permit hereunder shall file an
application with the Board of Park Commissioners stating:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant.
      (2)   The name and address of the person, persons, corporation or
association sponsoring the activity, if any.
      (3)   The day and hours for which the permit is desired.
      (4)   The park or portion thereof for which such permit is desired.
      (5)   Any other information which the Board of Park Commissioners shall
find reasonably necessary to a fair determination as to whether a permit should
be issued hereunder.
   B.   Standards for issuance of a use permit by the Board of Park
Commissioners shall include the following findings:
      (1)   That the proposed activity or use of the park will not unreasonably
interfere with or detract from the general public employment of the park.
      (2)   That the proposed activity and use will not unreasonably interfere
with or detract from the general public enjoyment of the park.
      (3)   That the proposed activity and use will not unreasonably interfere
with or detract from the promotion of public health, welfare, safety and
recreation.
      (4)   That the proposed activity or uses that are reasonably anticipated
will not include violence, crime or disorderly conduct.
      (5)   That the proposed activity will not entail extraordinary or
burdensome expense or police operation by the town.
      (6)   That the facilities desired have not been reserved for other use at
the date and hour requested in the application.
   C.   Use of Facility. Applications for park(s) and recreation area(s) use
are issued in priority order by category in which the organization or event is
placed. A Category I user/event has priority over Category II, III and IV user/
event, etc. Permits must be available for review at time of field use.
Department of Parks and Recreation will make every reasonable effort to treat
all organizations, teams, and individuals using Town facilities in a fair and
equitable manner. All parties must comply with federal and state anti-
discrimination laws. Permits for park(s) and recreation area(s) use are issued
by priority as listed below and according to policies contained herein. Park(s)
and recreation area(s) use permits should be carried by the permittee at all
times, during scheduled use of the park(s) and recreation area(s) and must be
presented upon request. These permits are nontransferable and may not be passed
on to other user groups. All field users must adhere to their designated
activity, times, locations and dates of assigned use. Authorized permits will
only be distributed after all required documentation has been submitted. All
organized sports activity must have an authorized permit for use of Town
athletic fields.
   D.   Use categories:
      (1)   Category I permit/use: Hammonton Town programs and events. Any
Hammonton Town-sanctioned program and/or special event.
      (2)   Category II permit/use: recognized and sponsored Hammonton Town
youth sports organizations.
         (a)   Hammonton Town Little League Baseball Association.
         (b)   Hammonton Town Bulldogs Basketball Association.
         (c)   Hammonton Town Wrestling Association.
         (d)   Hammonton Town Youth/Adult Baseball and Softball Associations.
         (e)   Hammonton Town HYSA Soccer Association.
         (f)   Hammonton Town Men's Softball Association.
         (g)   Hammonton Hawks Football and Cheerleading Association.
         (h)   Other Hammonton Town Youth Organization approved at a formal
meeting by Hammonton Park Commission.
      (3)   Category III permit/use: Hammonton Town School District. Programs,
events, and/or activities officially sanctioned, coordinated and sponsored by
the Hammonton School District.
      (4)   Category IV permit/use: Hammonton Town nonprofit organizations/
Hammonton Town church groups/Hammonton Town Boy and Girl Scout groups. St.
Josephs Elementary, Middle and High School. Nonprofit organizations, entities,
individuals or groups for the purpose of providing recreational services
primarily to Hammonton Town residents must show proof of nonprofit
certification. Organization address of record is a Hammonton Town address. Team
rosters must show 75% or higher Hammonton Town residents.
      (5)   Category V permit/use: Non-Town nonprofit organizations. Nonprofit
organizations, entities, individuals or groups for the purpose of providing
recreational services, must show proof of nonprofit certification. For all
teams with fewer than 75% Hammonton Town residents.
      (6)   Category VI permit/use: independent organizations. Organizations,
entities, individuals or groups for the purpose of providing recreational
services who do not operate as a commercial enterprise or business and can't
provide verifiable proof of operating on a nonprofit basis as defined herein.
      (7)   Category VII permit/use: Commercial. Organizations, entities,
individuals or groups for the purpose of providing recreational services that
are operated as a for-profit commercial enterprise.
   E.   To qualify as a nonprofit organization in Category IV or V above, the
organization must be registered as a not-for-profit corporation with the State
of New Jersey. Nonprofit organizations are those organizations that have
evidence of Federal 501(c) filing and state nonprofit status.
   F.   Priority is given within a particular sport's designated "season." In-
season sports have equal status to each other; out of season sports have equal
status to each other.
   G.   In the event of special cases or circumstances (such as decisions on
"last-minute" completed applications with no time to go through the process
described above), the Director of Parks and Recreation will use their best
discretion for park(s) and recreation area(s) use, and have the support of the
Quality of Life Committee of Hammonton Town Council.
   H.   Appeal. Within five days after the receipt of an application, the Board
of Park Commissioners shall apprise an applicant in writing of its reasons for
refusing a permit, and any aggrieved person shall have the right to appeal to
the Town Council by serving written notice thereof on the Town Clerk/
Administrator within five days of said refusal. A copy of said notice shall
also be served on the Board of Park Commissioners within the same time, and
said Board of Park Commissioners shall immediately forward the application and
the reasons for its refusal to the Town Council, which shall consider the
application under the standards set forth under Subsection B hereof and shall
sustain or overrule the Park Commission's decision within 10 days from the
receipt of the appeal by the Town Clerk/Administrator. The decision of the Town
Council shall be final.
   I.   A permittee shall be bound by all park rules and regulations and all
applicable ordinances fully as though the same were inserted in said permits.
   J.   The person or persons to whom a permit is issued shall be liable for
all loss, damage or injury sustained by any person whatever by reason of the
negligence of the person or persons to whom such permit shall have been issued.
The Board of Park Commissioners shall have the right to require any permittee
to submit evidence of liability insurance covering injuries to members of the
general public arising out of such permitted activities in such amounts as may
from time to time be determined by the Commission prior to the commencement of
any activity or issuance of any permit.
   K.   Revocation. The Board of Park Commissioners shall have the authority to
revoke a permit upon a finding of violation of any rule or ordinance or upon
good cause shown.
§ 200-4. Prohibited conduct.
   A.   No person in a public park and recreation area shall:
      (1)   Willfully mark, deface, disfigure, injure, tamper with or displace
or remove any buildings, bridges, tables, benches, fireplaces, railings,
pavings or paving materials, waterlines or other public utilities or parts or
appurtenances thereof, signs, notices or placards, whether temporary or
permanent, monuments, stake posts or other boundary markers or other structures
or equipment, facilities or park property or appurtenances whatsoever, either
real or personal.
      (2)   Fail to cooperate in maintaining rest rooms and washrooms in a neat
and sanitary condition. No person over the age of six years shall use the rest
rooms and washrooms designated for the opposite sex.
      (3)   Dig or remove any soil, rock, sand, stones, trees, shrubs or plants
or other wood or materials or make any excavation by tool, equipment, blasting
or other means or agency.
      (4)   Construct or erect any building or structure of whatever kind,
whether permanent or temporary, or run or string any public service utility
into, upon or across such lands, except on special written permit issued
hereunder.
      (5)   Damage, cut, carve, transplant or remove any tree or plant or
injure the park or pick the flowers or seed of any tree or plant, dig in or
otherwise disturb grass areas or in any other way injure the natural beauty or
usefulness of any area.
   (6)   Hunt, molest, harm, frighten, kill, trap, pursue, chase, tease, shoot
or throw missiles at any animal, wildlife, reptile or bird; nor remove or
possess the young of any wild animal or the eggs or nest or young of any
reptile or bird.
[Amended 11-18-2013 by Ord. No. 027-2013]
      (7)   Throw, discharge or otherwise place or cause to be placed in the
waters of any fountain, pond, lake, stream or other body of water in or
adjacent to any park or any tributary stream, storm sewer or drain flowing into
such water any substance, matter or thing, liquid or solid, which will or may
result in the pollution of said waters. Editor's Note: See
Ch. 184, Littering, Art. II, Clean Communities Program.
      (8)   Have brought in or shall dump in, deposit or leave any bottles,
broken glass, ashes, paper, boxes, cans, dirt, rubbish, waste, garbage or
refuse or other trash. No such refuse or trash shall be placed in any waters in
or contiguous to any park or left anywhere on the grounds thereof but shall be
placed in the proper receptacles, where these are provided. Where receptacles
are not provided, all such rubbish or waste shall be carried away from the park
by the person responsible for its presence and properly disposed of elsewhere.
      (9)   Drive any vehicle on any area except where there are paved park
roads or parking areas or such areas as may on occasion be specifically
designated as temporary areas by the Board of Park Commissioners.
      (10)   Park a vehicle in other than an established or designated parking
area, and such shall be in accordance with posted directions there and at and
with the instruction of any attendant who may be present.
      (11)   Ride a bicycle without reasonable regard to the safety of others.
      (12)   Swim, bathe or wade in any waters or waterways in or adjacent to
any park, except in such waters and at such places as are provided therefor and
in compliance with such regulations as are herein set forth or may be
hereinafter adopted; nor shall any person frequent any waters or places
customarily designated for the purpose of swimming or bathing or congregate
thereat when such activities are prohibited by the Board of Park Commissioners
upon a finding that such use of the water would be dangerous or otherwise
inadvisable.
      (13)   Frequent any waters or places designated for the purposes of
swimming or bathing or congregate thereat except between such hours of the day
as shall be designated by the Board of Park Commissioners for such purposes for
each individual site.
      (14)   Erect, maintain, use or occupy on or in any beach or bathing area
any tent, shelter or structure of any kind unless there shall be an
unobstructed view into said tent, shelter or structure from at least two sides;
nor shall any guy wire, rope or extension brace or support be connected or
fastened from any such structure to any other structure, stake, rock or other
object outside thereof.
      (15)   Dress or undress on any beach or in any vehicle, toilet or other
place, except in such bathing houses or structures as may be provided for that
purpose.
      (16)   Bring into or operate any boat, raft or other watercraft, whether
motor-powered or not, upon any waters except at places designated for boating
by the Board of Park Commissioners. Such activity shall be in accordance with
applicable regulations as are now or may hereafter be adopted. Editor's Note:
See
Ch. 99, Boats on Hammonton Lake.
      (17)   Navigate, direct or handle any boat in such a manner as to
unjustifiably or unnecessarily annoy or frighten or endanger the occupant of
any other boat.
      (18)   Launch, dock or operate any boat of any kind on any water between
the closing hour of the park at night and the opening hour of the park the
following morning; nor shall any person be on or remain on or in any boat
during said closed hours of the park.
      (19)   Fish in any waters except in waters designated by the Board of
Park Commissioners for that use and under such regulations and restrictions as
have or may be prescribed by the Park Commissioner.
      (20)   Fish in any area where bathing is permitted.
      (21)   Carry or possess firearms of any description or air rifles, spring
guns, bows and arrows, slings or any other forms of weapons potentially
inimical to wildlife and dangerous to human safety or any instrument that can
be loaded with and fire blank cartridges or any kind of trapping device.
Shooting into park areas from beyond park boundaries is forbidden. Editor's
Note: See
Ch. 141, Firearms.
      (22)   Violate the regulation that use of individual fireplaces, together
with tables and benches, follows the generally accepted rule of "first come,
first served."
      (23)   Use any portion of the picnic area or any of the buildings or
structures therein for the purpose of holding picnics to the exclusion of other
persons; nor shall any person use such areas and facilities for an unreasonable
time if the facilities are crowded.
      (24)   Leave a picnic area before the fire is completely extinguished and
before all trash is placed in the disposal receptacles, where provided. If no
such trash receptacles are available, then trash shall be carried away from the
park area by the picnicker to be properly disposed of elsewhere.
      (25)   Set up tents, shacks or any other temporary shelter for the
purpose of overnight camping, nor shall any person leave in a park after
closing hours any movable structure or special vehicle to be used or that could
be used for such purpose, such as a house trailer, camp trailer, camp-wagon or
the like, except in those areas designated by the Board of Park Commissioners
for those purposes.
   B.   While in a public park or recreation area, all persons shall conduct
themselves in a proper and, orderly manner, and, in particular, no person
shall:
      (1)   Bring alcoholic beverages or drink same at any time therein.
[Amended 8-24-2009 by Ord. No. 19-2009]
      (2)   Have in his/her possession or set or otherwise cause to explode or
discharge or burn any firecrackers, torpedo rockets or other fireworks,
firecrackers or explosives of flammable material, or discharge them or throw
them into any such areas from lands or highways adjacent thereto. This
prohibition includes any other substance or compound, mixture or article that
in conjunction with any other substance or compound would be dangerous from any
of the foregoing standpoints. At the discretion of the Board of Park
Commissioners, permits may be given for conducting properly supervised
fireworks in designated park areas.
      (3)   Permit any dog or other domestic animal into areas marked "Domestic
Animals Prohibited in This Area." In areas in which dogs are permitted, they
shall be supervised and controlled. Horseback riding shall be prohibited.
      (4)   Enter into or loiter or remain in any pavilion or any other park
structure or section thereof which may be reserved and designated by the Board
of Park Commissioners for the use of the opposite sex. Exception is made for
children under six years of age.
      (5)   Solicit alms or contributions for any purpose, whether public or
private. Editor's Note: See
Ch. 204, Peddling and Soliciting.
      (6)   Build or attempt to build a fire except in such areas and under
such regulations as may be designated by the Board of Park Commissioners. No
person shall drop, throw or otherwise scatter lighted matches, burning
cigarettes or cigars, tobacco paper or other flammable material within any park
or on any highways, roads or streets abutting or contiguous thereto.
      (7)   Enter an area posted as "Closed to the Public"; nor shall any
person use or abet in the use of any area in violation of posted notices.
      (8)   Gamble or participate in or abet any game of chance except in such
areas and under such regulations as may be designated by the Board of Park
Commissioners.
      (9)   Go onto the ice or any of the waters except such areas as are
designated as skating fields, provided that a safety signal is displayed.
      (10)   Use threatening, abusive, insulting or indecent language or engage
in any disorderly conduct or behavior tending to breach the public peace.
Editor's Note: See
Ch. 202, Peace and Good Order.
      (11)   Fail to produce and exhibit any permit from the Board of Park
Commissioners he/she claims to have upon request of any authorized person who
shall desire to inspect the same for the purpose of enforcing compliance with
any ordinance or rule.
      (12)   Disturb or interfere unreasonably with any person or party
occupying any area or participating in any activity under the authority of a
permit.
      (13)   Expose or offer for sale any article or thing; nor station or
place any stand, car or vehicle for the transportation, sale or display of any
such article or thing. Exception is here made as to any regularly licensed
concessionaire acting by and under the authority and regulation of the Board of
Park Commissioners.
      (14)   Paste, glue, tack or otherwise post any sign, placard,
advertisement or inscription whatever; nor shall any person erect or cause to
be erected any sign whatever on any public lands or highways or roads adjacent
to a park.
      (15)   Prevent any person or group from using any park or playground or
any of its facilities or interfere with such use in compliance with this
chapter and the rules applicable to such use.
      (16)   Fail to obey or interfere with any police officer, town official
or employee in the proper performance of his/her duties.
      (17)   Endanger the life and safety of any person by any conduct or act.
      (18)   Attempt to use any playing field or other area which has been
reserved for use by some other person, firm, corporation or group.
      (19)   Attempt to gain entry to a special event without paying the
required admission fee.
§ 200-5. Parking of motor vehicles.
   No owner or driver shall cause or permit a vehicle to stand outside
designated parking spaces, except for a reasonable time to take up or discharge
passengers or equipment. No motor vehicle shall be parked in said park areas
from 1/2 hour after sunset until sunrise, except as otherwise permitted by the
Board of Park Commissioners.
§ 200-6. Enforcement.
   A.   The Board of Park Commissioners and park attendants shall, in
connection with their duties imposed by law, diligently enforce the provisions
of this chapter.
   B.   The Board of Park Commissioners and any park attendant shall have the
authority to eject from the park area any person or persons acting in violation
of this chapter.
   C.   The Board of Park Commissioners and any park attendant shall have the
authority to seize and confiscate any property, thing or device in the park, or
used, in violation of this chapter.
   D.   This chapter shall also be enforced by the Police Department of the
Town of Hammonton.
§ 200-7. Permit Fees.
[Added 3-26-2018 by Ord. No. 010-2018]
   Hammonton Town Park(s) and Recreation Area(s) permit fees by category:
   A.   Category I, II, III, IV are permitted for use at no charge.
   B.   Category V and VI:
      (1)   Field use: $50 per hour per field/three-hour block minimum.
      (2)   Field use with/lights: $100 per hour per field/three-hour block
minimum.
   C.   Category VII:
      (1)   Field use: $100 per hour per field/three-hour block minimum.
      (2)   Field use with/lights: $200 per hour per field/three-hour block
minimum.
§ 200-8. Field scheduling.
[Added 3-26-2018 by Ord. No. 010-2018]
   A.   The first step to securing a park and/or recreation area is to complete
a use of facility application. The allocation of park(s) and recreation area(s)
will be determined by the Director of Parks and Recreation according to the
priority of use established in Permits Section, Permits, and provided that the
criteria listed are met.
      (1)   The Department of Parks and Recreation may schedule fields and
facilities at any time for Town sponsored programs, events and activities.
      (2)   Category II applicant's facility use of park(s) and recreation area
(s). Application for the spring and summer season (February 15 through August
31) is to be submitted by December 31. Field use approvals for Category II will
be voted upon at the January Recreation Commission meeting.
      (3)   Category II applicant's facility use of park(s) and recreation area
(s). Application for the fall season (September 1 through November 30) is to be
submitted by May 31. Field use approvals for Category II will be voted upon at
the June Recreation Commission meeting.
      (4)   All Categories III through VII applicants may submit a facility use
of park(s) and recreation area(s) application no more than 60 days prior to
start date of use. Additionally, applications for facility use of fields
between April 1 and August 31 will be accepted up to January 31. Permits will
be issued for groups that apply according to category rankings. Applications
for facility use of park(s) and recreation area(s) between September 1 and
November 15 will be accepted up to June 30. Permits will be issued for groups
that apply according to category rankings and any policy contained herein.
      (5)   Field use applications may be submitted past the dates stated
above, no later than seven business days prior to date of use requested and
will be considered based on remaining park(s) and recreation area(s)
availability.
      (6)   Restrictions include:
         (a)   Park(s) and recreation area(s) use permits will be issued to all
applicants in Categories III through VII between the dates of April 1 and
November 30 annually. No use outside of these dates for above category groups
will be allowed.
         (b)   All Hammonton Town park(s) and recreation area(s) will be
permitted for use a maximum of six days a week to ensure they receive some rest
and reduce wear and tear.
         (c)   Athletic fields may not be scheduled for more than eight hours
of use in a day. The Director of Parks and Recreation may make exception to
this rule in case of tournament play. During the months of July and August, all
athletic fields will be permitted for use no more than six hours daily, with a
maximum use of four consecutive hours. A mandatory rest period of two hours
will be imposed between approved use of the field(s) or area(s).
         (d)   The Town will leave park(s) and recreation area(s) use times
open, un-scheduled and available for informal use by the general public.
   B.   To minimize field wear and maintenance and ensure the safety of
participants, park(s) and recreation area(s) may be retired from play after
each season to allow rehabilitation/ regrowth of the turf. The Director of
Public Works, Director of Recreation or the Recreation Commission may close any
Hammonton Town park(s) and recreation area(s) for the upcoming season based
upon a review of conditions and required maintenance to ensure playability. The
Town may cancel individual activities on any given day depending on weather and
current park(s) and recreation area(s) conditions. In case of permitted date of
use, canceled due to weather or park(s) and recreation area(s) conditions, the
Director of Parks and Recreation will assist the organization in obtaining one
alternate date at no additional cost, provided the date of park(s) and
recreation area(s) use is not booked previously by any another permitted group.
§ 200-9. Violations and penalties.
[Amended 3-26-2018 by Ord. No. 010-2018]
   Each and every violation shall be considered a separate violation. Any
person who is convicted of violating the provisions of this chapter within one
year of the date of a previous violation and who was fined for the previous
violation may be sentenced by the Court to an additional fine as a repeat
offender. The additional fine imposed as a repeat offender shall not be less
than the minimum or exceed the maximum fine provided herein, and same shall be
calculated separately from the fine imposed for the violation of this chapter.
§ 200-10. Construal of provisions.
   This chapter is in addition to and not in derogation of any other ordinance
involving or affecting any of the subject matters in this chapter.
§ 200-11. “Adopt-a-Park” program.
[Added 8-25-2014 by Ord. No. 017-2014]
   In order to promote greater public participation in the life of the
community and the operation of town facilities, there is hereby established an
"Adopt-a-Park" program, to be administered under the auspices of the town's
Park and Recreation Department.
   A.   Any individual citizen, group of citizens, family, civic organization,
or business may apply for sponsorship of a park or area of a park within the
town, taking responsibility for certain tasks aimed at maintaining the park or
area of said park in a clean, attractive, safe fashion. The Town Business
Manager, in consultation with the Recreation Leader, and the Board of Park
Commissioners, shall develop an application covering rules for the program, and
shall recommend an appropriate sponsorship fee structure to Mayor and Town
Council for approval.
   B.   Approved sponsors commit to assisting the town's Public Works
Department in the care and maintenance of parks by performing, at least four
times each year, some or all of the following tasks, as appropriate for the
area adopted:
      (1)   Removing litter and recyclable materials.
      (2)   Clearing brush and invasive plants.
      (3)   Mulching trees and garden beds.
      (4)   Planting trees, shrubs and flowers.
      (5)   Painting and minor repair of facilities and equipment.
      (6)   Care and maintenance of playground equipment.
      (7)   Care and maintenance of walking trails and tracks.
   C.   The town will supply bags and other material that will be used to
maintain parks. Sponsors will perform their cleanup with appropriate clothing
including rain gear and gloves.
   D.   Sponsors will be publicly recognized for their efforts through the
prominent placement of a sign, to be purchased and installed by the town,
declaring their sponsorship.
   E.   Upon signing a "Hold Harmless Agreement" with the Town of Hammonton,
all sponsorships shall be valid for a period of five years, and shall be
renewable, with the current sponsor having right of first refusal. Failure to
agree to renew a sponsorship within a reasonable period of time from the
individual or group to assume sponsorship of the subject park.
   F.   Each sponsor shall agree, at a minimum, to the following stipulations:
      (1)   To conduct all activities in a safe and responsible manner.
      (2)   To comply with all park rules and regulations.
      (3)   To notify the town, through the Recreation Leader, Business
Administrator or Park Commission, regarding their decision to resign or not
renew the sponsorship in writing.
      (4)   To supply sufficient advance notice of scheduled work to the
Director of Public Works and the Recreation Leader.
      (5)   To assign a person in charge of volunteers. This "crew chief" will
be responsible for signing volunteers in and out, as well as ensuring that all
volunteers comply with relevant safety requirements.
      (6)   To ensure that all volunteers under the age of 18 have close and
appropriate adult supervision at all times.
      (7)   To wear clothing (including shoes and gloves) appropriate for the
work and weather.
      (8)   To report any and all damage to park grounds or facilities, and any
accidents, to the Town Clerk within 24 hours of occurrence.
      (9)   To sign a "Hold Harmless Agreement" with the Town of Hammonton.
   G.   Individuals or groups that are unable to commit to actual work on a
park may provide funding or materials as an in-kind contribution. These
donations will also qualify for recognition through sign placement, although
the term of acknowledgement shall carry a one-year term.
CHAPTER 202.
PEACE AND GOOD ORDER
[HISTORY: Adopted by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton 8-
23-1999 by Ord. No. 18-1999. Amendments noted where applicable.]
   
§ 202-1.   Title.
   
§ 202-2.   Purpose.
   
§ 202-3.   Prohibited acts.
   
§ 202-4.   Enforcement.
   
§ 202-5.   Violations and penalties.
   
§ 202-6.   Construal of provisions.
GENERAL REFERENCES
   Curfew — See
Ch. 119.
   Parks and recreation areas — See
Ch. 200.
§ 202-1. Title.
   This chapter shall be entitled "Peace and Good Order."
§ 202-2. Purpose.
   The purpose and intent of this chapter is to establish standards of conduct
for persons in public places and along town streets and sidewalks.
§ 202-3. Prohibited acts.
[Amended 9-11-2023 by Ord. 013-2023]
   A.   No person shall sleep or camp in or on the street, sidewalks, public
pavilions, public parks or other public places in the Town of Hammonton at any
time. The term "camp" or "camping" under this Chapter shall mean the use of
public property as a temporary or permanent place of dwelling, lodging or
residence, or as a living accommodation.
   B.   (Reserved)1
1.   Editor's Note: Former § 202-3B, regarding drunk or intoxicated persons in
a public place, was repealed 7-27-2009 by Ord. No. 14-2009.
   C.   No person shall solicit alms or contributions for any purpose in public
places or upon any town street or sidewalk.
   D.   No person shall disturb or interfere unreasonably with any person or
party occupying any area or participating in any public activity under the
authority of a permit in a public place, town street or sidewalk.
   E.   No person shall expose or offer for sale any article or thing, nor
shall he/she station or place any stand, car or vehicle for transportation,
sale or display of any such article or thing except as may be permitted
consistent with Chapter 204, Peddlers, Solicitors and Transient Merchants.
   F.   No person shall paste, glue, tack or otherwise post any sign, plaque or
advertisement or inscription whatever, nor shall any person cause or cause to
be erected any sign whatever on any public land or upon any town street or
sidewalk.
   G.   (Reserved)2
2.   Editor's Note: Former § 202-3G, regarding failure to obey a police
officer, town official, or employee, was repealed 10-24-2011 by Ord. No. 19-
2011.
   H.   (Reserved) 3
3.   Editor's Note: Former § 202-3H, regarding loitering in a public place, was
repealed 10-24-2011 by Ord. No. 19-2011.
   I.   (Reserved) 4
4.   Editor's Note: Former § 202-3I, regarding prostitution, was repealed 10-
24-2011 by Ord. No. 19-2011.
§ 202-4. Enforcement.
   This chapter shall be enforced by the Police Department of the Town of
Hammonton.
§ 202-5. Violations and penalties.
   Any person or persons found to be violation of a provision of this chapter
or any rule or regulation promulgated pursuant hereto in the Hammonton
Municipal Court, upon conviction shall be subject to one or more of the
following: a fine of not more than $1,000, imprisonment for a period not to
exceed 90 days or a period of community service not to exceed 90 days.
§ 202-6. Construal of provisions.
   This chapter is in addition to and not in derogation of any other ordinance,
statute or regulation involving or affecting any of the subject matters in this
chapter.
CHAPTER 204.
PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
[HISTORY: Adopted by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton as
indicated in article histories. Amendments noted where applicable.]
ARTICLE I.
Noncommercial Solicitation
   
§ 204-1.   Purpose.
   
§ 204-2.   Term defined.
   
§ 204-3.   Application and license requirement.
   
§ 204-4.   Hours of noncommercial solicitation.
   
§ 204-5.   Violations and penalties.
ARTICLE II.
Soliciting in Roadways
   
§ 204-6.   Purpose.
   
§ 204-7.   Filing of request.
   
§ 204-8.   Approval or denial of request.
   
§ 204-9.   Minors in roadways prohibited.
   
§ 204-10.   Compliance with state statutes.
   
§ 204-11.   Compliance of ordinance with state statutes.
   
§ 204-12.   Violations and penalties.
ARTICLE III.
Peddlers, Hawkers, Vendors, Solicitors, Canvassers, Food Trucks, Door to Door
Vendor, Seasonal Sales Vendors and Special Event Vendors
   
§ 204-13.   Title.
   
§ 204-14.   Purpose.
   
§ 204-15.   Definitions.
   
§ 204-16.   (Reserved)
   
§ 204-17.   License required.
   
§ 204-18.   Application for seasonal sales vendor license.
   
§ 204-19.   Application for peddler, hawker, vendor, solicitor, food truck
vendor, door to door vendor, canvasser and special event vendor license.
   
§ 204-20.   Investigation and issuance; hearing upon disapproval.
   
§ 204-21.   Fees.
   
§ 204-22.   Duration of license.
   
§ 204-23.   Revocation of license.
   
§ 204-24.   Enforcement.
   
§ 204-25.   Effect on existing licenses.
   
§ 204-26.   Violations and penalties.
   
§ 204-27.   Exceptions.
   
§ 204-28.   Food trucks prohibited.
   
§ 204-29.   All sales prohibited.
   
§ 204-30.   Appeal for food trucks.
Article I.
Noncommercial Solicitation
[Adopted 7-26-1993 by Ord. No. 18-1993]
§ 204-1. Purpose.
   During the past years there have been a number of lawsuits brought against
municipalities by noncommercial groups which seek to do door-to-door
solicitations. The federal courts have rendered, pursuant to the United States
Constitution and principles based on case law, that noncommercial solicitations
are distinguishable from commercial solicitation. It is the purpose of this
article to amend the town ordinance so that it complies with federal law.
§ 204-2. Term defined.
" Noncommercial solicitation" is any individual, group, nonprofit association,
nonprofit corporation, charitable organization or like body that solicits or
canvasses the community for contributions for a nonprofit organization or
charitable cause.
§ 204-3. Application and license requirement.
   Noncommercial solicitation shall be allowed, pursuant to this article, so
long as the application is made pursuant to §
204-18 of this chapter, except under no circumstances will the fingerprinting
of noncommercial solicitors or canvassers be required, and a license is issued
pursuant to §
204-17. Nothing in this article shall prevent the Mayor and Council from
waiving the license fee required pursuant to this amendment.
§ 204-4. Hours of noncommercial solicitation.
   All noncommercial solicitation shall take place between the hours of 9:00
a.m. and 9:00 p.m., unless the solicitor's or canvasser's presence is expressly
requested by the individual solicited by appointment.
§ 204-5. Violations and penalties.
   A person convicted of violating the provisions of this article shall be
subject to one or more of the following: a fine of not more than $1,000,
imprisonment for a period not to exceed 90 days or a period of community
service not to exceed 90 days.
Article II.
Soliciting in Roadways
[Adopted 7-28-1997 by Ord. No. 14-1997]
§ 204-6. Purpose.
   The Town of Hammonton shall permit charitable organizations as defined in
Section III of P.L. 1994, c.16 (N.J.S.A. 45:17A-20), to solicit contributions
in the roadways and highways of the Town of Hammonton in accordance with the
provisions contained herein.
§ 204-7. Filing of request.
   All charitable organizations herein who wish to solicit contributions in the
roadways and highways of the Town of Hammonton shall file a request with the
Town Clerk/Administrator and the Hammonton Police Department (Deputy Chief of
Police), specifying the following information:
   A.   Name of organization.
   B.   Address of organization.
   C.   Telephone number of organization.
   D.   Contact person of organization.
   E.   Location of proposed charitable solicitation.
   F.   Dates and times of proposed charitable solicitation.
   G.   If said request involves a county roadway and/or highway, a copy of an
authorization from the Atlantic County Board of Chosen Freeholders to permit
said charitable solicitation.
   H.   If said request involves a state roadway and/or highway, a copy of an
authorization from the State of New Jersey Commissioner of Transportation to
permit said charitable solicitation.
   I.   List of all proposed safety regulations, safety devices and training
for individuals who shall participate in the charitable solicitation and/or a
report as to the procedures to be used to ensure the safety of the members of
the public who will be traversing the roadways and/or highways of the Town of
Hammonton.
§ 204-8. Approval or denial of request.
[Amended 2-24-2014 by Ord. No. 003-2014]
   All applications submitted to the Town Clerk shall be forwarded to the
Police Chief for official police background check of all applicants. The
application so endorsed shall be forthwith returned to the Town Clerk.
§ 204-9. Minors in roadways prohibited.
   In no event shall any charitable organization requesting authorization from
the Town of Hammonton for said charitable solicitation use any individual under
the age of 18 years to perform any function or task associated with the said
charitable solicitation in any roadway.
§ 204-10. Compliance with state statutes.
   Any charitable organization requesting authorization from the Town of
Hammonton for said charitable solicitation shall comply with all the terms and
conditions of N.J.S.A. 39:4-60, as amended by P.L. 1997, Chapter 82, approved
April 30, 1997.
§ 204-11. Compliance of ordinance with state statutes.
   This article is adopted pursuant to N.J.S.A. 39:4-60, as amended by P.L.
1997, Chapter 82, approved April 30, 1997.
§ 204-12. Violations and penalties.
   A person convicted of violating the provisions of this article shall be
subject to one or more of the following: a fine of not more than $1,000,
imprisonment for a period not to exceed 90 days or a period of community
service not to exceed 90 days.
Article III.
Peddlers, Hawkers, Vendors, Solicitors, Canvassers, Food Trucks, Door to Door
Vendor, Seasonal Sales Vendors and Special Event Vendors
[Adopted 9-22-1997 by Ord. No. 18-1997; amended in its entirety 10-25-2004 by
Ord. No. 25-2004]
§ 204-13. Title.
[Amended 1-23-2017 by Ord. No. 001-2017]
   This article shall be entitled "Peddlers, Hawkers, Vendors, Solicitors,
Canvassers, Food Trucks, Door to Door Vendor and Seasonal Sales Vendors."
§ 204-14. Purpose.
   The purpose and intent of this article is to establish regulations relative
to intermittent, temporary and part-time sales of goods and merchandise. This
article also establishes regulations during specified seasonal time periods,
defined as Christmas, Valentine's Day, Easter, and Mothers' Day, and to
prohibit seasonal sales in all residential zone classifications as set forth in
the Zoning Code of the Town of Hammonton. Editor's Note: See
Ch. 175, Land Development. This article also prohibits stationary vendors from
selling merchandise and goods outdoors. This article sets forth the
application/approval process for seasonal sales vendors. Furthermore, this
article is to preserve Town aesthetics and zoning, alleviate traffic
congestion, protect against pedestrian and motor vehicle accidents, and
generally protect the health, safety and welfare of the public of the Town of
Hammonton.
§ 204-15. Definitions.
[Amended 1-23-2017 by Ord. No. 001-2017; 6-20-2022 by Ord. No. 012-2022]
   As used in this article, the following terms shall have the meanings
indicated:
   DOOR TO DOOR VENDOR
   Any person, whether or not a resident of the Town of Hammonton who travels
on foot and/or by vehicle to visit private homeowners to discuss or hand out
information that may result in a sale.
   FOOD TRUCK VENDOR
   Any person, whether or not a resident of the Town of Hammonton who travels
in a self sustained food truck to be parked at a specific location (pre-
approved by the Town Clerk and Police Chief) to sell food, approved by Board of
Health, to patrons.
   PEDDLER, HAWKER, AND VENDOR
   Any person, whether or not a resident of the Town of Hammonton, either by
foot, by vehicle, or by any matter, means or method, who shall go from house to
house, place to place, or street to street, conveying or transporting goods,
products, wares, merchandise, food or drink, or any product thereof, offering
or exposing the same for sale, or making sales and delivering articles to
purchasers, or who engages in any of the foregoing activities from a stationary
location on the street or other public place.
   SOLICITOR or CANVASSER
   Any person, whether or not a resident of the Town of Hammonton, who goes
from place to place or street to street, whether on foot or by conveyance of
any kind, nature or sort, soliciting, taking or attempting to take orders for
the sale of services, goods, wares, merchandise, food or drink or any products
thereof, or property of any kind or nature whatsoever, for future performance
or delivery, whether or not such individual has, carries or exposes for sale a
sample of the subject of such order, and whether or not he is collecting
advance payments on such sales or orders, or who engages in any of the
foregoing activities from a stationary location on the street or other public
place.
   SEASONAL SALES VENDOR
   A person who sells goods and/or merchandise for a specified, limited purpose
and period of time, at a location owned by and/or leased by the person.
   NONPROFIT SEASONAL SALES VENDOR
   Any nonprofit, religious, charitable, educational, civic or veteran
organization or fire company which is located within the boundaries of the Town
of Hammonton and sells goods and merchandise at a specific location either
owned by the nonprofit organization or having the written consent of the owners
of the property to conduct seasonal sales activities within the Town of
Hammonton.
   MERCHANDISE (peddler, hawker, vendor, solicitor, or canvasser)
   Includes all goods, wares, foods, fruits, vegetables, farm products,
beverages, food products, books, magazines, periodicals, arts, crafts, and all
kinds of articles of personal property for personal and/or domestic use.
   MERCHANDISE (seasonal sales vendor)
   Includes Christmas trees, Christmas wreaths, Christmas grave blankets,
Christmas arts and crafts, Valentine flowers, Easter flowers, Easter baskets,
Mothers' Day flowers, Mothers' Day baskets, and other article of arts and
crafts related to the seasonal sales activity for these specific days.
   PERSON
   Any individual, partnership, partner, corporation or corporations or similar
business entity.
   SEASONAL SALES TIME PERIOD
   A specific time period to sell goods and/or merchandise as follows:
   A.   Christmas: a total time period not to exceed 31 days in the month of
December, including Christmas Day.
   B.   Valentine's Day: a time period not to exceed seven days in the month of
February, including Valentine's Day.
   C.   Easter: a time period not to exceed 14 days, including Easter.
   D.   Mother's Day: a time period not to exceed seven days, including
Mother's Day, in the month of May.
SPECIAL EVENT — Any special event sanctioned by resolution of Hammonton Town
Council, except the Hammonton Food Truck Festival which shall be governed by
those provisions of this Chapter 204 applicable to food trucks.
SPECIAL EVENT VENDOR — Any person, whether or not a resident of the Town of
Hammonton, either by foot, by vehicle, or by any matter, means or method, who
shall convey or transport goods, products, wares, merchandise, food or drink,
or any product thereof, offering or exposing the same for sale, or making sales
and delivering goods to purchasers, or who engages in any of the foregoing
activities from a stationary location at a Town special event.
§ 204-16. (Reserved) 
   [Editor’s note: Former § 204-16, Fixed location sales prohibited; exception,
was repealed 1-23-2017 by Ord. No. 001-2017]
§ 204-17. License required.
[Amended 1-23-2017 by Ord. No. 001-2017; 6-20-2022 by Ord. No. 012-2022]
   It shall be unlawful for any hawker, peddler, vendor, solicitor, canvasser,
food truck vendor, door to door vendor, seasonal sales vendor, or special event
vendor, as defined herein, to engage in activity within the Town of Hammonton
without first obtaining a license in accordance with the provisions of this
article.
§ 204-18. Application for seasonal sales vendor license.
   Any activities involving the sale of merchandise as defined under
"merchandise (seasonal sales vendor)" in this article shall be required to
obtain a seasonal sales license. Applicants for a licenses under this article
shall file a sworn application with the Town Clerk, in duplicate. Complete
applications for seasonal sales licenses must be submitted 30 days prior to the
actual specified time period for conducting a seasonal sales activity. An
application determined to be incomplete upon review shall be returned to the
applicant. The following information shall be required and sworn to:
   A.   Name, address, and telephone number of the organization and/or business
applying for a license under the provisions of this section.
   B.   Name, address, telephone number and description of those individuals to
be employed by and engaged in a seasonal sales activity.
   C.   The block and lot location of the property to be utilized in conducting
a seasonal sales activity.
   D.   Social security numbers and driver's license numbers of individuals of
the organization and/or business, engaged in the seasonal sales.
   E.   Social security numbers and driver's license numbers of individuals
engaged in seasonal sales for the organization and/or business applying for a
license to conduct said activities.
   F.   The length of time for which the right to do business is desired by the
organization and/ or business applying for the license, as per §
204-15 of this article, which defines seasonal sales period.
   G.   Photographs of the individuals employed by the organization and/or
business applying for a license, taken within 60 days immediately prior to the
filing of the application.
   H.   Fingerprints of the individuals employed by the organization and/or
business applying for the license, obtained by the Chief of Police.
   I.   A statement indicating whether or not the individuals employed by the
organization and/or business applying for a license have been convicted of any
crime, disorderly persons offense or violation of any municipal ordinance, as
well as describing the nature of the events and the punishment or penalty
assessed therefor.
   J.   A list of previous licenses issued by the Town of Hammonton and other
licenses which have been applied for and issued by other municipalities.
   K.   A statement that the time of seasonal sales shall be between the hours
of 9:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.
   L.   Submission of a property survey of the lot(s) to be utilized to be
prepared by a New Jersey licensed professional engineer or surveyor. A hand-
drawn sketch plat may be submitted in lieu of a survey plat, as determined by
the Town Clerk. The purpose of the survey plat and/or sketch plat is to
determine if the proposed use of the property location is sufficient for the
intended purpose of conducting seasonal sales. The following information must
be set forth on the survey and/or sketch plat submitted:
      (1)   Location of and quantities of merchandise to be stored and
displayed on the lot(s).
      (2)   Location of on-site parking, as well as off-site parking associated
with the site location.
      (3)   Location of curb cut access to indicate proper ingress and egress
of the site to evaluate and prevent traffic hazards, congestion or excessive
interference with normal traffic movements on adjacent public streets.
      (4)   Location of Temporary signs in accordance with regulations set
forth in the Zoning Code of the Town of Hammonton.
   M.   A statement that no temporary signs advertising the seasonal sales
activity shall be placed on any tree, telegraph, electric, light or public
utility pole or upon rocks or other natural features located within the public
right-of-way; a statement that all temporary signs shall be located on the
site.
   N.   A statement that no more than four temporary signs shall be created,
and that temporary signs shall not exceed six square feet in area nor exceed
four feet in height.
   O.   A statement that temporary signs may not be erected prior to 48 hours
of the designated seasonal sales activity and must be removed within 48 hours
after the time period stated and licensed for conducting a seasonal sales
activity.
   P.   A statement that no sign shall be erected that is of such character,
form, shape or color that it imitates or resembles any official traffic sign,
signal or device, or that has any characteristics which are likely to confuse
or dangerously distract the attention of the operator of a motor vehicle on a
public street.
   Q.   A statement that temporary signs shall be kept in a proper state of
repair, in accordance with the requirements of the Town's Building Code,
Property Maintenance Code, and other pertinent regulations. Signs which fall
into such a state of disrepair as to become unsightly or to pose a threat to
public safety may be removed by the Town at the owner's expense under proper
notification by the Town.
   R.   A statement that no temporary sign shall be erected within or project
over the right-of-way of any public street or sidewalk. No temporary signs
placed on the site shall be located in such a fashion that would affect the
site visibility of the motoring public as determined by the Chief of Police or
his designee.
   S.   A statement as to how the site shall be maintained during the
designated time period, as well as a statement indicating how trash, refuse and
other materials will be disposed of other than through normal solid waste
collection services provided by the Town of Hammonton. All debris, materials,
trash, etc., must be removed from the site within 48 hours following the
expiration of the license issued by the Town of Hammonton.
   T.   A certification from the Town of Hammonton Tax Collector that all taxes
have been paid and are current on the site.
   U.   Proof of registration with the New Jersey Division of Taxation and a
copy of a valid certificate of authority to collect sales taxes.
§ 204-19. Application for peddler, hawker, vendor, solicitor, food truck
vendor, door to door vendor, canvasser and special event vendor license.
[Amended 1-23-2017 by Ord. No. 001-2017; 6-20-2022 by Ord. No. 012-2022]
   Applicants for a license for a peddler, hawker, vendor, solicitor, food
truck vendor, door to door vendor, canvasser and special event vendor under
this article shall file with the Town Clerk/Administrator an application, in
duplicate, on forms to be provided by the Town Clerk/Administrator, that shall
provide the following information, all of which shall be sworn to:
   A.   Name, address and telephone number of the organization and/or business
applying for a license under the provisions of this section. The applicant(s)
must be the registered owner of the food truck, cart, vehicle or other
conveyance, the person named on Tax ID, the person named on certificate of
insurance and the person conducting the sale and he/she must be present at all
times. Any person who has provided false information on their application or
any person who has caused another person to provide false information on their
application, will be subject to a local fine of $1,000.00.
   B.   Name, address, telephone number and description of those individuals to
be employed by and engaged in peddling, hawking, soliciting, food truck
vending, door to door vending, or canvassing. The applicant(s) must be the
registered owner of the food truck, cart, vehicle or other conveyance, the
person named on Tax ID, the person named on certificate of insurance and the
person conducting the sale and he/she must be present at all times. Any person
who has provided false information on their application or any person who has
caused another person to provide false information on their application, will
be subject to a local fine of $1,000.00.
   C.   The place or places of residence of the organization and/or business
applying for a license, as well as those individuals engaged by the
organization and/or business in conducting peddling, hawking, vending,
soliciting and canvassing activities.
   D.   Social security numbers and driver's license numbers of individuals of
the organization and/or business engaged in the activities of peddling,
hawking, vending, soliciting and canvassing.
   E.   Social security numbers and driver's license numbers of individuals
engaged in peddling, hawking, vending, soliciting and canvassing for the
organization and/or business applying for a license to conduct said activities.
   F.   A brief description of the nature of the business, the goods to be sold
and the name and addresses of the principal office of the business as well as
the name and address of the agent designated to receive service of process in
the State of New Jersey of said organization and/or business applying for a
license under this article. The applicant shall also certify that no
merchandise being sold violates or otherwise infringes on any trademark,
copyright or official licensing rights of any other individual or entity, and
that the peddler, hawker, vendor, solicitor and/or canvasser engaging in the
sale of trademarked, copyrighted and/or licensed merchandise shall present at
the time of application, and maintain at the location of sale, satisfactory
written proof that it is an authorized seller of the merchandise and/or that it
has purchased the merchandise from a licensed vendor.
[Amended 9-13-2010 by Ord. No. 18-2010]
   G.   The length of time for which the right to do business is desired by the
organization and/or business applying for the license.
   H.   Current photo identification of each applicant is required.
   I.   Applicant shall submit a certificate of insurance to be approved by the
Town of Hammonton's Risk Management Consultant.
   J.   Veteran applicant shall submit proof of his/her New Jersey Residency,
State Issued Peddler License, Card #2765 Department of Defense Status DAV/
PERMANENT to be subject to veteran exception status.
   K.   The individuals employed by the organization and/or business applying
for a license shall be fingerprinted at the request of the Chief of Police.
   L.   A statement indicating whether or not the individuals employed by the
business applying for a license have been convicted of any crime, disorderly
persons offense or violation of any municipal ordinance, as well as describing
the nature of the events and the punishment or penalty.
   M.   Whether or not orders are to be solicited or taken for future delivery
of goods or performance of services by the organization and/or business
applying for a license.
   N.   The organization and/or business applying for a license shall list
previous licenses issued by the Town of Hammonton as well as other
municipalities wherein licenses have been applied for and issued by those
municipalities.
   O.   All vending units shall not be permitted to be in use and shall be off
the streets and sidewalks of the Municipality during the period from 9:00 p.m.
to 7:00 a.m. daily. Door to door sales are to be conducted between the hours of
9:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.
   P.   Proof of registration with the New Jersey Division of Taxation and a
copy of a valid certificate of authority to collect sales taxes.
   Q.   Detailed map with street names and Block and Lot location where food
truck will be parked.
   R.   Detailed description of the location where sales shall be conducted by
special event vendor, including street names, address(es) (if applicable),
block and lot location where special event vendor will be located.
§ 204-20. Investigation and issuance; hearing upon disapproval.
[Amended 1-23-2017 by Ord. No. 001-2017]
   A.   Upon receipt of such application, the original thereof shall be
referred immediately by the Town Clerk to the Chief of Police of the Town, who
shall cause to be made such investigation of the applicant's business as he
deems necessary for the protection of the public welfare.
   B.   Such investigation shall be completed within 21 days after receipt of
such application; and said Chief shall endorse thereupon his approval or
disapproval and, if disapproved, his reasons therefor, and he shall immediately
notify the applicant that his application has been disapproved. The application
so endorsed shall be forthwith returned to the Town Clerk. When the application
is approved by the Police Chief, the applicant shall be issued a license and a
parking sticker for the specified approved parking place in the case of a food
truck, cart or other conveyance. When approving parking place the Police Chief
shall take into consideration all laws including but not limited to those
pertaining to intersections and traffic flow in the requested area. All
licenses issued under
Chapter 204 shall expire one year from date of issuance.
[Amended 2-24-2014 by Ord. No. 003-2014]
   C.   If the application has been disapproved by the Chief of Police, such
applicant may file with the Town Clerk a request in writing for a hearing on
the ruling of the Chief of Police, and the Mayor and Town Council shall then
set a time and place for a hearing on such request, which hearing shall be
within 14 days after receipt of the written request therefor. At such hearing
the applicant shall have full and ample opportunity to present facts and
circumstances to support the issuance of a license in accordance with the
application, and the Mayor and Town Council shall then decide whether the
applicant should receive such license.
   D.   If the applicant has been approved by the Chief of Police, he shall
endorse his approval thereupon and shall promptly return it to the Town Clerk,
who, upon payment of the prescribed license fee as hereinafter set forth, shall
execute and deliver the license to the applicant. The Town Clerk shall keep a
record of all licenses issued, the fee received and of all complaints made, if
any, concerning such licensee.
§ 204-21. Fees.
[Amended 1-23-2017 by Ord. No. 001-2017; 6-20-2022 by Ord. No. 012-2022]
   A.   Registration fee. Each individual applicant, even if all working for
same business, for a seasonal sales vendor license or a peddler, hawker,
vendor, solicitor, canvasser, food truck and door to door license shall be
required to pay a non-refundable fee of $100.00 to the Town Clerk for police
investigation for each person who will be utilizing license and each vehicle,
food truck or other conveyance that will be used during the license term.
   B.   License fee. The Town's license fee for the issuance of a license
hereunder shall be as follows:
      (1)   Peddler, hawker, vendor, solicitor, canvasser, food truck and door
to door annual license fee: $500.00 per person making sales and per food truck,
vehicle or other conveyance used to make sales.
      (2)   Seasonal sales vendor: $300.
      (3)   Special event vendor: $25.
§ 204-22. Duration of license.
[Amended 1-23-2017 by Ord. No. 001-2017; 6-20-2022 by Ord. No. 012-2022]
   A.   A seasonal sales license and a peddler, hawker, vendor, solicitor, food
truck, door to door vendor, and canvasser license shall be for a period of one
year. A separate license shall be applied for each seasonal sales activity.
Licenses shall not be transferable and must be surrendered after expiration
before a new license and/or registration can be issued for each seasonal sales
activity.
   B.   A special event vendor license shall only be for the period of the
special event. A separate license shall be applied for each special event.
Special event vendor licenses shall not be transferable and must be surrendered
after expiration before a new special event license can be issued for a
separate/new special event.
§ 204-23. Revocation of license.
   A.   Licenses issued under this article may be revoked by the Chief of
Police or his designee after reasonable notice and hearing for any of the
following reasons:
      (1)   Misrepresentation or false statement contained in the application
for the license and registration of individuals engaged by the organization.
      (2)   Misrepresentation or false statement made in the cause of carrying
on activities regulated herein.
      (3)   Conviction of any crime or disorderly persons offense involving
moral turpitude.
      (4)   Conducting business in an unlawful manner and in violation of any
provision of this article or in such a manner as to constitute a breach of the
peace or to constitute a menace to health, safety or general welfare of the
public.
   B.   The revocation of a license shall be grounds for nonissuance of a
license for a period not to exceed two years.
   C.   Notice of hearing for revocation of a license shall be given in writing
setting forth the grounds of complaint and the time and place of hearing. Such
notice shall be served personally upon the licensee by means of a summons, or
by mail, postage prepaid, to the licensee at the address given by the licensee
in making application, at least five days prior to the date set for a hearing
in accordance with the provisions of this article. The hearing will be held
within 30 days of issuance of the notice of revocation.
§ 204-24. Enforcement.
   It shall be the duty of any police officer or code enforcement official of
the Town of Hammonton to enforce the provisions of this article.
§ 204-25. Effect on existing licenses.
[Amended 1-23-2017 by Ord. No. 001-2017]
   Any license which is operating under a current license term (to expire one
year from date of issuance) shall remain in full compliance under prior law
until the license expires at which time a new application with all regulations
contained herein must be made and approved.
§ 204-26. Violations and penalties.
   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this article shall, upon
conviction thereof, be subject to a fine not more than $1,000 or be imprisoned
for not more than 90 days, or both. Each day that a violation shall exist shall
be construed as a separate offense.
§ 204-27. Exceptions.
[Amended 1-23-2017 by Ord. No. 001-2017; 6-20-2022 by Ord. No. 012-2022]
   A.   This article shall not be construed as to apply to the selling of any
item or article at wholesale to dealers of such articles or items, or to the
delivery of milk, eggs, bread, butter, newspapers, or to other articles or
items of food or merchandise of a type which are generally considered as
household necessities and that are commonly delivered to a house at intervals
of a week or less.
   B.   A veteran with proper credentials is not subject to payment of fees or
location of sale restrictions but is subject to police investigation and all
other sections herein. The veteran making application must be the registered
owner of the food truck, cart or vehicle or other conveyance, the person named
on Tax ID, the person named on certificate of insurance and the person
conducting the sale and he/she must be present at all times. Any person using a
veteran to make application on their behalf, will be guilty of a crime in the
fourth degree per N.J.S.A. 45:24-9 and subject to a local fine of $1,000.00.
   C.   Nonprofit groups.
      (1)   Any nonprofit religious, charitable, educational, political, civic
or veterans' organization, society, association or club desiring to sell any
item or merchandise as defined in §
204-15 for a religious, charitable, patriotic, educational, civil or
philanthropic purpose shall be exempt from the provisions of §§
204-17 and
204-19 of this article, provided there is a filed, sworn application, in
writing, with the Town Clerk, either by the individual if done on an individual
basis, or by the one in charge thereof if being done on a group basis by
numerous individuals as agents or employees, who shall give the following
information:
         (a)   Name of the individual or organization and the purpose of the
cause for which the permit is sought.
         (b)   Names and addresses of the individual officers and directors or
trustees of the organization and the addresses of such organization.
         (c)   The location or locations of the property to be utilized in
conducting the sales activity, if applicable.
         (d)   The length of time anticipated to conduct the activity.
         (e)   Proof of permission to use the property or location.
         (f)   A sketch plan of the site where the activity is to be conducted
in order for the Town to determine the safety of the location.
         (g)   Compliance with §
204-18M through R on use of temporary signs.
         (h)   A statement that the site will be maintained properly during the
activity and that any trash and/or refuse will be removed and properly disposed
of within 48 hours following use of the site.
         (i)   Submission of proof of nonprofit status under state regulations
and Internal Revenue Service regulation.
      (2)   Upon submission of the requirements found in Subsection C(1) above,
and upon being satisfied that such person is a bona fide representative of such
an organization or that such organization, as aforesaid, is bona fide, and that
the agents or representatives who shall conduct the transactions are approved
representatives, the Town Clerk shall issue a permit, without charge to such
organization, association or corporation, to operate in the Town. Such
organization shall supply its agents, representatives or employees with a badge
or ribbon containing the names of such organization, which shall be worn and
conspicuously displayed on the front of the clothing of such agent,
representative or employee.
   D.   All event coordinators and veteran attendees shall be subject to
N.J.S.A. 45:24-9. The Municipal Clerk shall notify the event coordinator of
this law upon Mayor and Council's approval of the special event.
   E.   Per N.J.S.A. 45:24-9 any licensee who shall sell or transfer such
license shall be guilty of a crime of the fourth degree and punished
accordingly.
§ 204-28. Food trucks prohibited.
[Added 1-23-2017 by Ord. No. 001-2017]
   Food trucks shall be prohibited at all times in the following zones: HB,
DT1, DT3, DT4, GW1, GW2, GW3 but shall be permitted on private property not
located in those zones and on farms so long as the property owner has given
their permission.
§ 204-29. All sales prohibited.2  
[Added 1-23-2017 by Ord. No. 001-2017]
   All peddlers, hawkers, vendors, solicitors, canvassers, food truck, and door
to door sales are prohibited on municipal owned property.
2.   Editor’s Note: Former Article IV, §§ 204-30 —204-37, Special Event Vendor
Permit, was repealed 2-24-2014 by Ord. No. 003-2014.
§ 204-30. Appeal for food trucks.
[Added 2-26-2018 by Ord. No. 007-2018]
   A.    Town Council shall herein decide requests for variance relief from §
204-28.
   B.    In passing upon such applications, Town Council shall consider all
relevant factors, including, but not limited to:
      (1)   The suitability of the location for food trucks;
      (2)   Any danger to life and property;
      (3)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed food truck
to the community;
      (4)    The necessity for the food truck to be at that location;
      (5)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed food
truck;
      (6)   The compatibility of the proposed food truck with existing and
anticipated development; and
      (7)   The safety of access to the property where the food truck is to be
located.
   C.    Upon consideration of the factors set forth above in §
204-30(B) and the purposes of this section, Town Council may attach such
conditions to the granting of a variance as it deems necessary to further the
purposes of this section.
   D.    The affirmative vote of the majority of the full authorized membership
of Town Council shall be necessary to grant requests for variances under this
section.
CHAPTER 211.
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
[HISTORY: Adopted by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton 4-8-
1985 by Ord. No. 6-1985; amended in its entirety 3-14-1988 by Ord. No. 6-1988.
Subsequent amendments noted where applicable.]
ARTICLE I.
Property Maintenance Code
   
§ 211-1.   Adoption of standards.
   
§ 211-2.   Certificates of occupancy; inspections.
   
§ 211-3.   Certificate of continued occupancy inspection fee for change of
ownership or occupancy for commercial properties.
   
§ 211-4.   Construal of provisions.
ARTICLE II.
Penalties
   
§ 211-5.   Purpose.
   
§ 211-6.   Definitions.
   
§ 211-7.   Complaints.
   
§ 211-8.   Notices.
   
§ 211-9.   Health hazard violations.
   
§ 211-10.   Violations and penalties.
   
§ 211-11.   Enforcement.
   
§ 211-12.   Rights retained by municipality.
   
§ 211-13.   Liens.
ARTICLE III
Adoption of Standards
   
§ 211-14.   Definitions.
   
§ 211-15.   Registration requirements.
   
§ 211-16.   Access to vacant properties.
   
§ 211-17.   Responsible owner or agent.
   
§ 211-18.   Fee schedule.
   
§ 211-19.   Requirements of owners of vacant/abandoned properties.
   
§ 211-20.   Violations and penalties.
ARTICLE IV
Registration and Maintenance of Real Property by Mortgagees
   
§ 211-33.   Immunity of enforcement officer.
ARTICLE V
Registration of Foreclosure Mortgage Properties
   §
211-40.   Purpose and intent.
   §
211-41.   Definitions.
   §
211-42.   Applicability and jurisdiction.
   §
211-43.   Establishment of a registry.
   §
211-44.   Inspection and registration of real property under foreclosure.
   §
211-45.   Maintenance requirements.
   §
211-46.   Security requirements.
   §
211-47.   Provisions supplemental.
   §
211-48.   Public nuisance.
   §
211-49.   Additional authority.
   §
211-50.   Opposing, obstructing Enforcement Officer; penalty.
   §
211-51.   Immunity of Enforcement Officer.
   §
211-52.   Penalties.
   §
211-53.   Amendments
 
[HISTORY: Adopted by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton 4-8-
1985 by Ord. No. 6-1985; amended in its entirety 3-14-1988 by Ord. No. 6-1988.
Subsequent amendments noted where applicable.]
GENERAL REFERENCES
   Uniform construction codes — See
Ch. 115.
   Fences and barriers — See
Ch. 137.
   Hazardous fire conditions — See
Ch. 144, Art. I.
   Housing standards — See
Ch. 165.
   Junkyards — See
Ch. 172.
   Littering — See
Ch. 184.
   Abandoned refrigerators — See
Ch. 214.
   Solid waste — See
Ch. 241.
   Snow and ice removal — See
Ch. 247, Art. II.
   Trees — See
Ch. 267.
Article I.
Property Maintenance Code
§ 211-1. Adoption of standards.
[Amended 3-26-2004 by Ord. No. 11-2001; 2-25-2008 by Ord. No. 4-2008; 5-28-2013
by Ord. No. 008-2013]
   A.   A certain document, three copies of which are on file in the office of
the Town Clerk of the Town of Hammonton and the office of the Building
Official/Code Enforcement Officer, being marked and designated as International
Property Maintenance Code, 2024 edition, as published by the International Code
Council, be and is hereby adopted as the Property Maintenance Code of the Town
of Hammonton in the State of New Jersey for regulating and governing the
conditions and maintenance of all property, buildings and structures, by
providing the standards for supplied utilities and facilities and other
physical things and conditions essential to ensure that structures are safe,
sanitary and fit for occupation and use, and the condemnation of buildings and
structures unfit for human occupancy and use, and the demolition of such
existing structures as herein provided; providing for the issuance of permits
and collection of fees therefor; and each and all of the regulations,
provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said Property Maintenance Code
on file in the office of the Hammonton Construction Code Official, are hereby
referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this
chapter, with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any,
prescribed in Subsection C of this section.
[Amended 6-24-2024 by Ord. No. 013- 2024]
   B.   To the extent that any other regulation or ordinance requires more
strict standards than exists in the International Property Maintenance Code
2006, then the more strict standards shall apply within the Town of Hammonton.
   C.   The following sections are hereby revised:
      (1)   In Section 101.1 insert: "Town of Hammonton."
      (2)   In Section 103.5 insert: "Such fees are on file with the
Construction Code Official of the Town of Hammonton."
      (3)   In Section 302.4: insert: "six inches."
      (4)   In Section 304.14 insert: "April 1 through October 1."
      (5)   Delete Section 404.4.1 in its entirety and replace with the
following language:
 
 404.4.1 Room area. Every living room shall contain at least 120 square feet of
 floor area. Every bedroom occupied by one person shall contain at least 70
 square feet of floor area. Every bedroom occupied by more than one person
 shall contain at least 50 square feet of floor area for each occupant thereof.
 
      (6)   Delete Section 404.5 in its entirety and replace with the following
language and subsections:
         404.5 Overcrowding. The number of persons occupying a dwelling unit
shall not create conditions that, in the opinion of the Construction Code
Official or his designee, endanger the life, health, safety or welfare of the
occupants. Dwelling units shall not be occupied by more occupants than
permitted by the minimum area requirements of Table 404.5.
 
Table 404.5 Minimum Area Requirements
            [Minimum Area (square feet)]
Space       1-2 Occupants  3-5 Occupants 6-8 Occupants 9 or More Occupants
Living room No requirement 120           150           225
Dining room No requirement 80            150           200
 
 
Space    1 Occupant     2 or More Occupants
Bedrooms 70 square feet Additional 50 sq. feet per occupant*
*No more than 4 occupants per any bedroom.
 
         404.5.1 Sleeping area. The minimum occupancy area required by Table
404.5 shall not be included as a sleeping area in determining the minimum
occupancy area for sleeping purposes. All sleeping areas shall comply with
Sections 404.4 and 404.5. For health and fire safety reasons, no more than 4
persons may occupy any one bedroom, regardless of the square footage
requirements of such room. Under no circumstances shall any sleeping area be
permitted in a basement unless the basement, in the opinion of the Construction
Code Official or his designee, contains adequate emergency escape openings
sufficient under fire safety standards, and otherwise complies with all
requirements in the International Property Maintenance Code for sleeping and
living areas.
         404.5.2 Combined spaces. Combined living room and dining room spaces
shall comply with the requirements of Table 404.5 if the total area is equal to
that required for separate rooms and if the space is located so as to function
as a combination living room/dining room.
      (7)   Section 602.3 insert "October 1 through April 15."
      (8)   Section 602.4 insert "October 1 through April 15."
§ 211-2. Certificates of occupancy; inspections.
   Responsibilities of owners of all properties used for residential purposes,
as well as their agents and prospective occupants, shall be as follows:
   A.   No owner or his/her agent shall occupy, sell, rent, transfer, grant,
lease, let, mortgage with right of occupancy or otherwise dispose of the
ownership or occupancy, whether or not for a consideration and whether such
disposal of ownership or occupancy is temporary or permanent, of any dwelling,
apartment unit, condominium, duplex or triplex unit, hotel, motel, rooming
house, rooming unit, boardinghouse or premises on which the building is located
and is used for human occupancy, unless a certificate of occupancy, certifying
that the building and premises are in compliance with all other ordinances of
the Town of Hammonton, shall first be obtained from the Code Enforcement
Officer of the town. Such certificate of occupancy shall be granted or denied
within 10 days from the date of the application for the same. However, nothing
in this Section 211-2(A) shall require an owner to obtain a certificate of
continued occupancy when selling, renting or otherwise disposing of ownership
or occupancy of any residential dwelling.
[Amended 8-24-2020 by Ord. 010- 2020]
   B.   The Code Enforcement Officer shall cause to be prepared appropriate
application forms for such certificate of occupancy, which forms shall be
available at the office of the Code Enforcement Officer.
   C.   The Code Enforcement Officer shall also cause to be prepared
appropriate forms of such certificate of occupancy.
   D.   Fees.
[Amended 4-18-2011 by Ord. No. 5-2011; 8-24-2020 by Ord. 010-2020]
      (1)   The fee for each inspection of a condominium or town home shall be
$60.
      (2)   The fee for each inspection of all other residential dwellings
shall be $75.
   E.   Where preoccupancy inspections are performed by other agencies, the
findings of such surveys shall be deemed acceptable to the requirements of this
code. In such cases, the occupancy certificate shall be issued upon
presentation of pertinent documents, free of handling costs.
§ 211-3. Certificate of continued occupancy inspection fee for change of
ownership or occupancy for commercial properties.
[Amended 4-18-2011 by Ord. No. 5-2011]
   A.   No owner or his/her agent shall sell, rent, lease or otherwise dispose
of the ownership or change the occupancy of any property or portion thereof
utilized for commercial purposes without first obtaining a certificate of
continued occupancy from the Code Enforcement Officer of the Town of Hammonton.
   B.   The fee for each certificate of continued occupancy shall be $90.
   C.   Each commercial use within a building or structure or upon the property
shall constitute a separate commercial use subjecting same to an inspection and
fee.
§ 211-4. Construal of provisions.
[Amended 2-25-2008 by Ord. No. 4-2008]
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to affect any suit or proceeding
pending in any court, unless any of the violations contained therein are
ongoing violations which would be subject to the provisions of this chapter.
Article II.
Penalties
[Added 5-22-1989 by Ord. No. 18-1989]
§ 211-5. Purpose.
   It is deemed to be in the public interest and necessary for the enforcement
of Article I of this chapter that penalty provisions be inserted covering said
violations and classifying the same for purposes of said penalties. It is the
belief of the Mayor and Council that failure to have penalties in an ordinance
relating to violations of said code makes said ordinance ineffectual as an
instrument protecting the public from those who would violate the provisions of
said code.
§ 211-6. Definitions.
   As used in this article, the following terms shall have the meanings
indicated:
   HEALTH HAZARD VIOLATION
   Any violation involving a residential property having no water, no bathroom
facilities, no means of heating the premises to a minimum of 65° between
October 1 and May 15 of each year or no electricity in the residence. In cases
of commercial properties, a backed up sewer facility shall be considered a
health hazard violation.
   IMMEDIATE FAMILY
   Parents, grandparents, children, grandchildren and brothers and sisters of
the owner of record of property. Editor's Note: The former definition of "major
renovations," which immediately followed this definition, was repealed 2-25-
2008 by Ord. No. 4-2008.
   RENTED SINGLE-FAMILY HOME
   A single-family home occupied by anyone other than the owner of the
premises, his or her spouse and/or members of the immediate family.
   SECOND OFFENDER
   An individual who has previously been convicted in the Hammonton Municipal
Court of a violation of the International Property Maintenance Code where said
violation affects the identical property when owned by the same individual, his
or her spouse or a member of his or her immediate family.
[Amended 2-25-2008 by Ord. No. 4-2008]
   THIRD OFFENDER
   An individual who has two prior convictions in the Hammonton Municipal Court
of a violation of the International Property Maintenance Code where said
violation affects the identical property when owned by the same individual, his
or her spouse or a member of his or her immediate family.
[Amended 2-25-2008 by Ord. No. 4-2008]
§ 211-7. Complaints.
[Amended 2-25-2008 by Ord. No. 4-2008]
   No complaints shall be brought until an individual has received written
notice from the Construction Official and Zoning Officer, or their authorized
representative, of a violation of this code and until the time periods set
forth under §
211-8 hereof have passed as such relate to the particular violation.
§ 211-8. Notices.
[Amended 2-25-2008 by Ord. No. 4-2008]
   Notices shall be given in accordance with the International Property
Maintenance Code.
§ 211-9. Health hazard violations.
[Amended 2-25-2008 by Ord. No. 4-2008]
   Any violation not repaired within 24 hours after the owner is notified shall
result in a complaint issuing in the Hammonton Municipal Court. Each day the
health hazard violation continues after the day of notice shall be considered a
separate offense by the Court.
§ 211-10. Violations and penalties.
[Amended 2-25-2008 by Ord. No. 4-2008]
   A.   Any person violating the provisions of the Property Maintenance Code of
the Town of Hammonton, after having been convicted by any court of competent
jurisdiction, shall be subject to the following penalties:
      (1)   For the first offense, a fine of not more than $750.
      (2)   For a subsequent violation, a fine of up to $1,000 and/or
imprisonment up to 90 days.
   B.   Each day that a violation continues, after due notice has been given,
shall be deemed a separate offense.
§ 211-11. Enforcement.
[Amended 2-25-2008 by Ord. No. 4-2008]
   A.   The Construction Code Official or his designee and all authorized
members of their departments shall have the right to enforce this chapter.
   B.   The Construction Code Official or his designee shall have the right to
extend the notice period before said individual or entity is cited with a
criminal violation, upon the showing of just cause.
   C.   The Construction Code Official or his designee and all authorized
members of their department shall direct those actions necessary to cause the
violation to be terminated and abated. The actual cost of such termination,
which shall include the cost for terminating and abating the violation,
obtaining title information, advertising and recording any liens imposed
hereunder, shall constitute a lien on the property in accordance with Section
211-13. [Added 5-28-2013 by Ord. No. 007-2013]
§ 211-12. Rights retained by municipality.
   A.   Nothing in this chapter shall impair or limit the right, if any, of the
Hammonton Municipal Court to order the violator to make such repairs as are
required by the code.
   B.   Nothing in this chapter shall restrict or limit the right of the town
to seek such remedies as are necessary in order to effectuate compliance with
said code through actions brought in courts of competent jurisdiction by the
town.
   C.   Nothing in this chapter shall restrict the rights, where such exist, of
the County Board of Health, the Construction Official or the Zoning Officer to
cause a premises to be closed and vacated where authorization for such action
appears in any ordinance or state law.
   D.   It shall be unlawful for any person to oppose, obstruct or resist any
Town of Hammonton Building Official / Code Enforcement Official in the
discharge of his or her duties as provided in this article. [Added 5-28-2013 by
Ord. No. 007-2013]
   E.   Any Town of Hammonton/ Code Enforcement Official shall be immune from
prosecution, whether civilly or criminally, as the result of any reasonable,
good faith trespass upon property while in the discharge of duties imposed by
this section. [Added 5-28-2013 by Ord. No. 007-2013]
§ 211-13. Liens.
[Added 5-28-2013 by Ord. No. 007-2013]
   A.    A copy of the request for payment of the cost of abating a violation
(s) shall be served on the violator at his or her last known address and the
violator shall have 15 days from the receipt of the request within which to pay
all costs described in the request. Service of the request for payment may be
deemed to be properly served if a copy thereof is:
      (1)   Delivered personally;
      (2)   Sent by certified or first class mail addressed to the last known
address; or
      (3)   If the notice is returned showing the letter was not delivered, a
copy posted in a conspicuous place in or about the property or structure
affected by such notice.
   In the event a violator fails or refuses to pay all costs incurred by the
town that are associated with terminating or abating a violation, such costs
will be imposed as a lien against the subject real property.
ARTICLE III
Adoption of Standards
[Adopted 9-28-2015 by Ord. No. 019-2015]
§ 211-14. Definitions.
   As used in this article, the following terms shall have the same meanings
indicated:
   ABANDONED PROPERTY — Pursuant to N.J.S.A. 55:19-81, an abandoned property is
defined as follows: Any property in the Town of Hammonton, including, but not
limited to, residential, commercial and/or industrial that has not been legally
occupied for a period of six months and which meets any one of the following
additional criteria may be deemed to be abandoned property upon a determination
by the public officer that:
   A.   The property is in need of rehabilitation in the reasonable judgment of
the public officer, and no rehabilitation has taken place during that six-month
period;
   B.   Construction was initiated on the property and was discontinued prior
to completion, leaving the building unsuitable for occupancy, and no
construction has taken place for at least six months as of the date of a
determination by the public officer pursuant to this section;
   C.   At least one installment of property tax remains unpaid and delinquent
on that property in accordance with Chapter 4 of Title 54 of the Revised
Statutes as of the date of the determination by the public officer pursuant to
this section; or
   D.   The property has been determined to be a nuisance by the public officer
in accordance with Section 5 of P.L. 2003, c. 210 (N.J.S.A. 55:19-82). A
property which contains both residential and nonresidential space may be
considered abandoned pursuant to P.L. 2003, c. 210 (N.J.S.A. 55:19-78 et seq.)
so long as 2/3 or more of the total net square footage of the building was
previously legally occupied as residential or commercial space and none of the
residential or commercial space has been legally occupied for at least six
months at the time of the determination of abandonment by the public officer
and the property meets the criteria of either Subsection A or Subsection D of
this definition.
   OWNER — Shall include the title holder, any agent of the title holder having
authority to act with respect to a vacant/abandoned property, any foreclosing
entity subject to the provisions of N.J.S.A. 46:10B-51 (P.L. 2008, c. 127,
Section 17, as amended by P.L. 2009, c. 296), or any other entity determined by
the Town of Hammonton to have authority to act with respect to the property.
   VACANT PROPERTY — Any building used or to be used as a residence, commercial
or industrial structure which is not legally occupied or at which substantially
all lawful construction operations or occupancy has ceased, and which is in
such condition that it cannot legally be reoccupied without repair or
rehabilitation, including but not limited to any property meeting the
definition of "abandoned property" in N.J.S.A. 55:19-54, 55:19-78, 55:19-79,
55:19-80 and 55:19-81; provided, however, that any property where all building
systems are in working order, where the building and grounds are maintained in
good order, or where the building is in habitable condition, and where the
building is being actively marketed by its owner for sale or rental, shall not
be deemed a vacant property for purposes of this article.
§ 211-15. Registration requirements.
   Effective 30 days after adoption of this Ordinance, the owner of any vacant
property, as defined herein, shall, within 30 calendar days after the building
becomes vacant property or within 30 calendar days after assuming ownership of
the vacant property, whichever is later, or within 10 calendar days of receipt
of notice by the municipality, file a registration statement for such vacant
property with the Code Enforcement Official on forms provided by the town for
such purposes. Failure to receive notice by the municipality shall not
constitute grounds for failing to register the property.
   A.   Each property having a separate block and lot number as designated in
official records of the municipality shall be registered separately.
   B.   The registration statement shall include the name, street address,
telephone number, and e-mail address (if applicable) of a person 21 years or
older, designated by the owner or owners as the authorized agent for receiving
notices of code violations and for receiving process in any court proceeding or
administrative enforcement proceedings on behalf of such owner or owners in
connection with the enforcement of any applicable code; and the name, street
address, telephone number, and e-mail (if applicable) of the firm and the
actual name(s) of the firm's individual principal(s) responsible for
maintaining the property. The individual or representative of the firm
responsible for maintaining the property shall be available by telephone or in
person on a 24-hour-per-day, seven-day-per-week basis. The two entities may be
the same or different persons. Both entities shown on the statement must
maintain offices in the State of New Jersey or reside within the State of New
Jersey.
   C.   The registration shall remain valid for one year from the date of
registration, except for the initial registration, which shall be prorated
through December 31. The owner shall be required to renew the registration
annually as long as the building remains a vacant and/or abandoned property and
shall pay a registration or renewal fee in the amount prescribed in § 211-18 of
this article for each vacant property registered.
   D.   The annual renewal shall be completed by January 1 each year. The
initial registration fee shall be prorated for registration statements received
less than 10 months prior to that date.
   E.   The owner shall notify the Code Enforcement Official within 30 calendar
days of any change in the registration information by filing an amended
registration statement on a form provided by the Code Enforcement Official for
such purpose.
   F.   The registration statement shall be deemed prima facie proof of the
statements therein contained in any administrative enforcement proceeding or
court proceeding instituted by the Borough against the owner or owners of the
building.
§ 211-16. Access to vacant properties.
   The owner of any vacant property registered under this article shall provide
access to the Borough to conduct exterior and interior inspections of the
building to determine compliance with municipal codes, upon reasonable notice
to the property owner or the designated agent. Such inspections shall be
carried out on weekdays during the hours of 9:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m., or such
other time as may be mutually agreed upon between the owner and the Borough.
§ 211-17. Responsible owner or agent.
   A.   An owner who meets the requirements of this article with respect to the
location of his or her residence or workplace in the State of New Jersey may
designate himself or herself as agent or as the individual responsible for
maintaining the property.
   B.   By designating an authorized agent under the provisions of this
section, the owner consents to receive any and all notices of code violations
concerning the registered vacant property and all process in any court
proceeding or administrative enforcement proceeding brought to enforce code
provisions concerning the registered building by service of the notice or
process on the authorized agent. Any owner who has designated an authorized
agent under the provisions of this section shall be deemed to consent to the
continuation of the agent's designation for the purposes of this section until
the owner notifies the Borough in writing of a change of authorized agent or
until the owner files a new annual registration statement.
   C.   Any owner who fails to register vacant/abandoned property under the
provisions of this article shall further be deemed to consent to receive, by
posting on the building, in plain view, and by service of notice at the last
known address of the owner of the property on record within the town by regular
and certified mail, any and all notices of code violations and all process in
an administrative proceeding brought to enforce code provisions concerning the
building.
§ 211-18. Fee schedule.
The initial registration fee for each building shall be $500. The fee for the
first renewal is $1,500, and the fee for the second renewal is $3,000. The fee
for any subsequent renewal beyond the second renewal is $5,000.
   Vacant Property Registration Fee Schedule
 
Type                 Fee
Initial registration $500
First renewal        $1,500
Second renewal       $3,000
Subsequent renewal   $5,000
 
§ 211-19. Requirements of owners of vacant/abandoned properties.
   The owner of any building that has become vacant/abandoned property, and any
person maintaining or operating or collecting rent for any such building that
has become vacant, shall, within 30 days thereof:
   A.   Enclose and secure the building against unauthorized entry as provided
in the applicable provisions of the Town Code or as set forth in the rules and
regulations supplementing those codes; and
   B.   Post a sign affixed to the building indicating the name, address and
telephone number of the owner, the owner's authorized agent for the purpose of
service of process, and the person responsible for day-to-day supervision and
management of the building, if such person is different from the owner holding
title or authorized agent. The sign shall be of a size and placed in such a
location so as to be legible from the nearest public street or sidewalk,
whichever is nearer, but shall be no smaller than eight inches by 10 inches;
and
   C.   Secure the building from unauthorized entry and maintain the sign until
the building is again legally occupied or demolished or until repair or
rehabilitation of the building is complete; and
   D.   Ensure that the exterior grounds of the structure, including yards,
fences, sidewalks, walkways, rights-of-way, alleys, retaining walls, attached
or unattached accessory structures, and driveways, are well-maintained and free
from trash, debris, loose litter, and grass and weed growth; and
   E.   Continue to maintain the structure in a secure and closed condition,
keep the grounds in a clean and well-maintained condition, and ensure that the
sign is visible and intact until the building is again occupied, demolished, or
until repair and/or rehabilitation of the building is complete.
§ 211-20. Violations and penalties.
   A.   Any person who violates any provision of this article or the rules and
regulations issued hereunder shall be fined not less than $100 and not more
than $1,000 for each offense. Every day that a violation continues shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense. Fines assessed under this article
shall be recoverable from the owner and shall be a lien on the property.
   B.   For purposes of this section, failure to file a registration statement
within 30 calendar days after a building becomes vacant property or within 30
calendar days after assuming ownership of a vacant property, whichever is
later, or within 10 calendar days of receipt of notice by the municipality, and
failure to provide correct information on the registration statement, or
failure to comply with the provisions of such provisions contained herein,
shall be deemed to be violations of this article.
   C.   To the extent that the town incurs any costs or expends any funds in
the enforcement of this Ordinance, the town shall have the option of assessing
the tax bill by adding the sums so expended to the tax bill of the registered
property owner or requiring restitution of those expenditures in any court
proceeding provided in this subchapter.
ARTICLE IV.
REGISTRATION AND MAINTENANCE OF REAL PROPERTY BY MORTGAGEES.
[Adopted 4-18-2016 by Ord. No. 006-2016; Amended 9-27-2021 by Ord. 014-2021]
§ 211-33. Immunity of enforcement officer.
Any enforcement officer or any person authorized by the town to enforce the
sections here within shall be immune from prosecution, civil or criminal, for
reasonable, good faith entry upon real property while in the discharge of
duties imposed by this article.
ARTICLE V.
REGISTRATION OF FORECLOSURE MORTGAGE PROPERTIES
[Adopted 8-8-2022 by Ord. No. 017-2022]
§ 211-40. Purpose and intent.
   It is the purpose and intent of the Town to establish a process to address
the deterioration, crime, and decline in value of Town neighborhoods caused by
property with foreclosed mortgages located within the Town, and to identify,
regulate, limit and reduce the number of these properties located within the
Town. It has been determined that there exist within the Town structures and
vacant lots which are or may become in the future substandard with respect to
structural integrity, equipment or maintenance or, further, that such
conditions, including but not limited to structural deterioration; lack of
maintenance of exterior premises and vacant lots; infestation; existence of
fire hazards, constitute a menace to the health, safety, welfare and reasonable
comfort of the citizens and inhabitants of the Town. It is further found and
declared that, by reason of lack of maintenance and ensuing progressive
deterioration, certain properties have the further effect of creating blighting
conditions and that, if the same are not curtailed and removed, the aforesaid
conditions will grow and spread and will necessitate in time the expenditure of
large amounts of public funds to correct and eliminate the same and that, by
reason of timely regulations and restrictions as herein contained, the growth
of blight may be prevented and the neighborhood and property values thereby
maintained, the desirability and amenities of dwellings and neighborhoods
enhanced, and the public health, safety and welfare protected and fostered. It
is the Town's further intent to establish a registration program as a mechanism
to help protect neighborhoods from becoming blighted through the lack of
adequate maintenance of properties that are in foreclosure or foreclosed, and
to provide a mechanism to avert foreclosure actions through timely
intervention, education, or counseling of property owners.
§ 211-41. Definitions.
   The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this Article V., shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning.
ACCESSIBLE PROPERTY/STRUCTURE – means a property that is accessible through a
comprised breached gate, fence, wall, etc. or a structure that is unsecured
and/or breached in such a way as to allow access to the interior space by
unauthorized persons.
ANNUAL REGISTRATION – shall mean 12 months from the date of the first action
that requires registration, as determined by the Town, or its designee, and
every subsequent 12 months the property is registrable. The date of the initial
registration may be different than the date of the first action that required
registration.
ENFORCEMENT OFFICER – shall mean any law enforcement officer, building
official, zoning inspector, code enforcement officer, fire inspector, building
inspector, or other person authorized by the Town to enforce the applicable
code(s).
EVIDENCE OF VACANCY – shall mean any condition that on its own, or combined
with other conditions present, would lead a reasonable person to believe that
the property is vacant. Such conditions may include, but are not limited to:
overgrown and/or dead vegetation; past due utility notices and/or disconnected
utilities; accumulation of trash junk or debris; abandoned vehicles, auto parts
and/or materials; the absence of furnishings and/or personal items consistent
with habitation or occupancy; the presence of an unsanitary, stagnant swimming
pool; the accumulation of newspapers, circulars, flyers and/or mail; statements
by neighbors, passers-by, delivery agents or government agents; and/or the
presence of boards over doors, windows or other openings in violation of
applicable code.
FORECLOSURE OR FORECLOSURE ACTION – shall mean the legal process by which a
mortgagee, or other lien holder, terminates a property owner's equitable right
of redemption to obtain legal and equitable title to the real property pledged
as security for a debt or the real property subject to the lien. This
definition shall include, but is not limited to, a complaint and summons filed
with respect to foreclosure on a mortgage, a lis pendens filed against it by
the lender holding a mortgage on the property, a deed-in-lieu of foreclosure,
sale to the mortgagee or lien holder, certificate of title and all other
processes, activities and actions, by whatever name, associated with the
described process. The legal process is not concluded until the property
obtained by the mortgagee, lien holder, or their designee, by certificate of
title, or any other means, is sold to a non-related bona fide purchaser in an
arm's length transaction to satisfy the debt or lien.
MORTGAGEE – shall mean the creditor, including but not limited to, trustees;
mortgage servicing companies; lenders in a mortgage agreement; any agent,
servant, or employee of the creditor; any successor in interest; or any
assignee of the creditor's rights, interests or obligations under the mortgage
agreement; or any other person or entity with the legal right to foreclose on
the real property, excluding governmental entities as assignee or owner.
PROPERTY MANAGER – shall mean any party designated by the mortgagee or owner as
responsible for inspecting, maintaining and securing the property as required
in this chapter.
REAL PROPERTY – shall mean any residential or commercial land and/or buildings,
leasehold improvements and anything affixed to the land, or portion thereof
identified by a property parcel identification number, located in the Town
limits.
REGISTRABLE PROPERTY – shall mean any real property located in the Town,
whether vacant or occupied, that is subject to an ongoing foreclosure action by
the mortgagee or trustee, has been the subject of a foreclosure action by a
mortgagee or trustee and a judgment has been entered, or has been the subject
of a foreclosure sale where the title was transferred to the beneficiary of a
mortgage involved in the foreclosure and any properties transferred under a
deed in lieu of foreclosure/sale. The designation of a "foreclosure" property
as "registrable" shall remain in place until such time as the property is sold
to a non-related bona fide purchaser in an arm's length transaction or the
foreclosure action has been dismissed.
REGISTRY – shall mean a web-based electronic database of searchable real
property records, used by the Town to allow mortgagees the opportunity to
register properties and pay applicable fees as required in this chapter.
UTILITIES AND SERVICES – shall mean any utility and/or service that is
essential for a building to be habitable and/or perform a service necessary to
comply with all Town codes. This includes, but is not limited to, electrical,
gas, water, sewer, lawn maintenance, pool maintenance, and snow removal.
VACANT – as used in this article shall mean any parcel of land in the Town that
contains any building or structure that is not lawfully occupied or inhabited
by human beings. A property also shall be deemed vacant if it is occupied
without a valid, unexpired certificate of occupancy or other written
authorization for occupancy as may be required by applicable laws.
§ 211-42. Applicability and jurisdiction.
   This chapter applies to foreclosing or foreclosed property within the Town.
§ 211-43. Establishment of a registry.
   Pursuant to the provisions of §
211-44, the Town, or its designee, shall establish a registry cataloging each
registrable property within the Town of Hammonton, containing the information
required by this chapter.
§ 211-44. Inspection and registration of real property under foreclosure.
   A.   Any mortgagee who holds a mortgage on real property located within the
Town shall perform an inspection of the property upon the filing of a
foreclosure action or any evidence of an existing foreclosure action or lien
holder has obtained ownership of the real property by the mortgagee.
   B.   Property inspected pursuant to subsection A. above that remains in
foreclosure shall be inspected every 30 days by the mortgagee or mortgagee's
designee. If an inspection shows a change in the property's occupancy status
the mortgagee shall, within ten days of that inspection, update the occupancy
status of the property registration.
   C.   Within ten days of the date any mortgagee files a foreclosure action,
the mortgagee shall register the real property with the Town of Hammonton Code
Enforcement Officer, or designee, on forms or website access provided by the
Town, and, at the time of registration, indicate whether the property is
vacant, and if so shall designate in writing a property manager to inspect,
maintain and secure the real property subject to the mortgage in foreclosure
when legally possible. A separate registration is required for each registrable
property.
   D.   Initial registration pursuant to this section shall contain at a
minimum the name of the mortgagee, the mailing address of the mortgagee, e-mail
address, telephone number and name of the property manager and said person's
address, e-mail address, and telephone number, regardless of whether it is
occupied or vacant.
   E.   At the time of initial registration each registrant shall pay a non-
refundable annual registration fee of $500 for each registrable property. For
foreclosured properties that are vacant the non-refundable annual registration
fee will be $2,000. Subsequent non-refundable annual registrations of
properties and fees in the amount of $500 are due within ten days of the
expiration of the previous registration. Said fees shall be used to offset the
costs of: (1) registration and registration enforcement, (2) code enforcement
and mitigation related to foreclosure properties, (3) post-closing counseling
and foreclosure intervention limited to owner-occupied persons in default,
which may not include cash and mortgage modification assistance, and (4) for
any related purposes as may be adopted in the policy set forth in this chapter.
Said fees shall be deposited to a special account in the Town's department
dedicated to the cost of implementation and enforcement of this article, and
fulfilling the purpose and intent of this article. None of the funds provided
for in this section shall be utilized for the legal defense of foreclosure
actions.
   F.   If the mortgage and/or servicing on a property is sold or transferred,
the new mortgagee is subject to all the terms of this chapter. Within ten days
of the transfer, the new mortgagee shall register the property or update the
existing registration. The previous mortgagee(s) will not be released from the
responsibility of paying all previous unpaid fees, fines, and penalties accrued
during that mortgagee's involvement with the registrable property.
   G.   If the mortgagee sells or transfers the registrable property in a non-
arm's length transaction to a related entity or person, the transferee is
subject to all the terms of this chapter. Within ten days of the transfer, the
transferee shall register the property or update the existing registration. Any
and all previous unpaid fees, fines, and penalties, regardless of who the
mortgagee was at the time registration was required, including but not limited
to unregistered periods during the foreclosure process, are the responsibility
of the transferee and are due and payable with the updated registration. The
previous mortgagee will not be released from the responsibility of paying all
previous unpaid fees, fines, and penalties accrued during that mortgagee's
involvement with the registrable property.
   H.   If the foreclosing or foreclosed property is not registered, or the
registration fee is not paid within 30 days of when the registration or renewal
is required pursuant to this section, a late fee equivalent to 10% of the
annual registration fee shall be charged for every 30-day period, or portion
thereof, the property is not registered and shall be due and payable with the
registration.
   I.   This section shall also apply to properties that have been the subject
of a foreclosure sale where title is transferred to the mortgagee as well as
any properties transferred to the mortgagee under a deed in lieu of foreclosure
or by any other legal means.
   J.   Properties subject to this section shall remain subject to the annual
registration requirement, and the inspection, security and maintenance
standards of this section as long as the property remains registrable.
   K.   Failure of the mortgagee and/or property owner of record to properly
register or to modify the registration to reflect a change of circumstances as
required by this article is a violation of this chapter and shall be subject to
enforcement by any of the enforcement means available to the Town.
   L.   If any property is in violation of this chapter the Town may take the
necessary action to ensure compliance with and/or place a lien on the property
for the cost of the outstanding obligation and any additional cost incurred to
bring the property into compliance.
   M.   Registration of foreclosure property does not alleviate the mortgagee
and/or owner from obtaining all required licenses, permits and inspections
required by applicable code or state statutes. Acquisition of required
licenses, permits and inspections or registration of rental property does not
alleviate the requirement for the property to be registered under this section.
Mortgagee and/or owner is expected to update the status of the property in the
event of a mortgagee managed rental.
§ 211-45. Maintenance requirements.
   A.   Properties subject to this article shall be kept free of weeds,
overgrown brush, dead vegetation, trash, junk, debris, building materials, any
accumulation of newspaper circulars, flyers, notices, except those required by
federal, state or local law, discarded personal items including, but not
limited to, furniture, clothing, large and small appliances, printed material,
or any other items that give the appearance that the property is abandoned.
   B.   Registrable property shall be maintained free of graffiti or similar
markings by removal or painting over with an exterior grade paint that matches
the color of the exterior structure.
   C.   Front, side, and rear yards, including landscaping, of registrable
property shall be maintained in accordance with the applicable code(s) at the
time registration is required.
   D.   Registrable yard maintenance shall include, but not be limited to,
grass, ground covers, bushes, shrubs, hedges or similar plantings, decorative
rock or bark or artificial turf/sod. Acceptable maintenance of yards and/or
landscape shall not include weeds, gravel, broken concrete, asphalt or similar
material.
   E.   Maintenance shall include, but not be limited to, watering, irrigation,
cutting and mowing of required ground cover or landscape and removal of all
trimmings.
   F.   Pools and spas shall be maintained so the water remains free and clear
of pollutants and debris and shall comply with the regulations set forth in the
applicable code(s).
   G.   Failure of the mortgagee, owner, and transferees to properly maintain
the property as required by this chapter may result in a violation of the
applicable code(s) and issuance of a citation or Notice of Violation. Pursuant
to a finding and determination by the Town of Hammonton Enforcement Official,
or a court of competent jurisdiction, the Town of Hammonton may take the
necessary action to ensure compliance with this section.
   H.   In addition to the above, the property is required to be maintained in
accordance with the applicable code(s).
§ 211-46. Security requirements.
   A.   Properties subject to this chapter shall be maintained in a secure
manner so as not to be accessible to unauthorized persons.
   B.   A "secure manner" shall include, but not be limited to, the closure and
locking of windows, doors, gates and other openings of such size that may allow
a child to access the interior of the property or structure. Broken windows,
doors, gates, and other openings of such size that may allow a child to access
the interior of the property or structure must be repaired. Broken windows
shall be secured by re-glazing of the window.
   C.   If a property is registrable, and the property has become vacant or
abandoned, a property manager shall be designated by the mortgagee or owner to
perform the work necessary to bring the property into compliance with the
applicable code(s), and the property manager must perform regular inspections
to verify compliance with the requirements of this chapter, and any other
applicable laws.
   D.   In addition to the above, the property is required to be secured in
accordance with the applicable code(s).
   E.   When a property subject to this chapter becomes vacant, it shall be
posted with the name and 24-hour contact telephone number of the property
manager. The property manager shall be available to be contacted by the Town
Monday through Friday between 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., legal holidays excepted.
The sign shall be placed in a window facing the street and shall be visible
from the street. The posting shall be no less than 18 inches by 24 inches and
shall be of a font that is legible from a distance of 45 feet. The posting
shall contain the following language with supporting information:
   THIS PROPERTY IS MANAGED BY __________________________________.
   AND IS INSPECTED ON A REGULAR BASIS. ____________________________.
   THE PROPERTY MANAGER CAN BE CONTACTED _____________________.
   BY TELEPHONE AT __________________________.
   OR BY EMAIL AT _________________________.
   F.   The posting required in subsection (E) above shall be placed on the
interior of a window facing the street to the front of the property so that it
is visible from the street, or secured to the exterior of the building/
structure facing the street to the front of the property so that it is visible
from the street or if no such area exists, on a stake of sufficient size to
support the posting in a location that is at all times visible from the street
to the front of the property but not readily accessible to vandals. Exterior
posting shall be constructed of and printed with weather-resistant materials.
   G.   Failure of the mortgagee and/or property owner of record to properly
inspect and secure a property subject to this chapter, and post and maintain
the signage noted in this section, is a violation and shall be subject to
enforcement by any of the enforcement means available to the Town. The Town may
take the necessary action to ensure compliance with this section and recover
costs and expenses in support thereof.
§ 211-47. Provisions supplemental.
   The provisions of this chapter are cumulative with and in addition to other
available remedies. Nothing contained in this chapter shall prohibit the Town
from collecting on fees, fines, and penalties in any lawful manner; or
enforcing its codes by any other means, including, but not limited to,
injunction, abatement, or as otherwise provided by law or ordinance.
§ 211-48. Public nuisance.
   All registrable property is at risk of being a public nuisance and if vacant
or blighted can constitute a public nuisance, the abatement of which pursuant
to the police power is hereby declared to be necessary for the health, welfare,
and safety of the residents of the Town.
§ 211-49. Additional authority.
   A.   If the Enforcement Officer has reason to believe that a property
subject to the provisions of this chapter is posing a serious threat to the
public health, safety, and welfare, the Code Enforcement Officer may
temporarily secure the property at the expense of the mortgagee or owner, and
may bring the violations before the Town of Hammonton’s Code Enforcement
Official as soon as possible to address the conditions of the property. Nothing
herein shall limit the Town from abating any nuisance or unsafe condition by
any other legal means available to it.
   B.   The Town of Hammonton Code Enforcement Official shall have the
authority to require the mortgagee or owner affected by this section, to
implement additional maintenance and/or security measures including, but not
limited to, securing any and all doors, windows or other openings, employment
of an on-site security guard or other measures as may be reasonably required to
help prevent further decline of the property.
   C.   If there is a finding that the condition of the property is posing a
serious threat to the public health, safety, and welfare, the Town of Hammonton
Code Enforcement Official may direct the Town to abate the violations and
charge the mortgagee or owner with the cost of the abatement.
   D.   If the mortgagee or owner does not reimburse the Town for the cost of
temporarily securing the property, or of any abatement directed Code
Enforcement Official, within 30 days of the Town sending the mortgagee the
invoice then such amount, together with an administrative fee of $500 to
address the Town’s administrative expenses, shall be a lien against the
property and recorded and collected as provided by the statutes of the State of
New Jersey.
   E.   The Town may contract with an entity to implement this chapter, and, if
so, any reference to the Enforcement Officer herein shall include the entity
the Town contracts with for that purpose.
§ 211-50. Opposing, obstructing Enforcement Officer; penalty.
   Whoever opposes, obstructs or resists any Enforcement Officer or any person
authorized by the enforcement office in the discharge of duties as provided in
this chapter shall be punishable as provided in the applicable code(s) or a
court of competent jurisdiction.
§ 211-51. Immunity of Enforcement Officer.
   Any Enforcement Officer or any person authorized by the Town to enforce the
sections here within shall be immune from prosecution, civil or criminal, for
reasonable, good faith entry upon real property while in the discharge of
duties imposed by this chapter.
§ 211-52. Penalties.
   Unless otherwise provided for in this chapter, a violation of this chapter
is declared unlawful.
§ 211-53. Amendments.
   Registration fees and penalties outlined in this article may be modified by
resolution, administrative order, or an amendment to this article, passed and
adopted by the Town of Hammonton.
CHAPTER 213.
REDEVELOPMENT PLAN
   
§ 213-1.   Findings.
   
§ 213-2.   Definitions.
   
§ 213-3.   Adoption of plan.
   
§ 213-4.   Contents.
   
§ 213-5.   State criteria.
   
§ 213-6.   Overlay zoning district.
[HISTORY: Adopted by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton 3-
22-2004 by Ord. No. 5-2004; amended 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 24-2011; amended 1-
22-2024 by Ord. No. 001-2024. Amendments noted where applicable.]
GENERAL REFERENCES
   Land development — See
Ch. 175.
§ 213-1. Findings.
   The Mayor and Council in the Town of Hammonton find that areas in the town
are in need of redevelopment and rehabilitation, as defined by N.J.S.A. 40A:
12A-3, and as recommended by the Hammonton Planning Board on December 10, 2003,
and adopted by the Board by resolution on December 17, 2003.
§ 213-2. Definitions.
   The Town of Hammonton adopts all definitions as stated in N.J.S.A. 40A:12A-
3 and all definitions found in the Municipal Land Use Law, N.J.S.A 40:55D-1 et
seq.
§ 213-3. Adoption of plan.
   A Redevelopment Plan is adopted in accordance with N.J.S.A. 40A:12A-7.
§ 213-4. Contents.
   The Redevelopment Plan shall be comprised of all maps and plans as
designated in the Redevelopment Area Analysis and Redevelopment Area Plan,
dated December 2002 and revised December 2003 and the Strategic Redevelopment
and Smart Growth Plan dated February 2003 and revised December 2003, which is
incorporated herein by reference.
§ 213-5. State criteria.
   The Planning Board of the Town of Hammonton has determined that all criteria
as set forth in N.J.S.A 40A:12A-7 and N.J.S.A. 40A:12A-5 has been met by the
Redevelopment Plan described in §
213-4 of this chapter, and the Mayor and Council adopts same in full.
§ 213-6. Overlay zoning district.
   The Redevelopment Plan shall constitute an overlay zoning district within
the redevelopment area as described by N.J.S.A 40A:12A-7.
CHAPTER 214.
REFRIGERATORS, ABANDONED
[HISTORY: Adopted by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton 9-
13-1971 by Ord. No. 10-1971 as Ch. 105 of the 1971 Code; amended in its
entirety at time of adoption of Code (see Ch. 1, General Provisions, Art. I).
Amendments noted where applicable.]
   
§ 214-1.   Abandonment prohibited.
   
§ 214-2.   Removal of doors required.
   
§ 214-3.   Violations and penalties.
GENERAL REFERENCES
   Littering — See
Ch. 184.
   Property maintenance — See
Ch. 211.
   Trash collection — See
Ch. 241, Art. II.
§ 214-1. Abandonment prohibited.
   No person shall leave outside of any building or dwelling in a place
accessible to children any abandoned, unattended or discarded icebox,
refrigerator or any other container of any kind which has an airtight door or
lock which may not be released for opening from the inside of such icebox,
refrigerator or container.
§ 214-2. Removal of doors required.
   No person shall leave outside of any building or dwelling in a place
accessible to children any abandoned, unattended or discarded icebox,
refrigerator or any other container of any kind which has an airtight snap lock
or other device thereon without first removing the snap lock or doors from such
icebox, refrigerator or container.
§ 214-3. Violations and penalties.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any section of this chapter shall,
upon conviction thereof, be subject to one or more of the following: a fine of
not more than $1,000, imprisonment for a period not to exceed 90 days or a
period of community service not to exceed 90 days.
CHAPTER 216.
RENTAL PROPERTY
[HISTORY: Adopted by the Mayor and Common Council 4-4-2007 by Ord. No. 5-2007.
Amendments noted where applicable.]
ARTICLE I.
Landlord and Tenant Responsibilities; Enforcement
   
§ 216-1.   Legislative findings.
   §
216-2.   Responsibilities of occupants and owners/landlords.
   §
216-3.   Notice of violation; subsequent violations.
   §
216-4.   Violations and penalties.
ARTICLE II
Procedures To Require An Owner of Rental Property Which Has Become a Source of
at Least Two Substantiated Complaints to Post a Bond or Equivalent Security to
Compensate For Any Future Damage or Expense Suffered From Future Repetition of
Disorderly, Indecent, Tumultuous or Riotous Conduct
   §
216-5.   Legislative findings.
   §
216-6.   Definitions.
   §
216-7.   Hearing; penalty.
   §
216-8.   Bond forfeiture; extension.
ARTICLE III
Definitions; Registration and Licensing
   §
216-9.    Definitions.
   §
216-10.    Registration required.
   §
216-11.    Registration upon change in occupancy; term; initial registration
provisions.
   §
216-12.    Registration forms; filing; contents.
   §
216-13.    Registration form indexing and filing; license to be posted.
   §
216-14.    Amendments.
   §
216-15.   Periodic inspections.
   §
216-16.   Access for inspections and repairs; complaints.
   §
216-17.   Occupancy of unregistered or unlicensed unit prohibited.
   §
216-18.   Issuance of license; revocation.
   §
216-19.   Fees.
   §
216-20.   Owner to provide registration form to occupants and tenants.
   §
216-21.   Maximum number of occupants; posting.
   §
216-22.   Payment of taxes and other charges as precondition for registration
and license.
   §
216-23.   Other rental unit standards.
   §
216-24.   Occupancy standards.
   §
216-25.   Revocation of license; procedure.
   §
216-26.   Violations and penalties.
Editor's Note: Former Ch. 216, Rental Property, adopted 9-25-2006 by Ord. No.
19-2006, was repealed 4-4-2007 by Ord. No. 4-2007.
GENERAL REFERENCES
   Animals — See
Ch. 82.
   Housing standards — See
Ch. 165.
   Peace and good order — See
Ch. 202.
   Property maintenance — See
Ch. 211.
   Rent control — See
Ch. 217.
   Solid waste — See
Ch. 241.
Article I.
Landlord and Tenant Responsibilities; Enforcement
§ 216-1. Legislative findings.
[Added 12-16-2019 by Ord. No. 31-2019]
Town Council finds, determines and declares that:
   A.   Hammonton and its citizens have experienced disturbances, damage and
public expense from carelessly granted and inadequately supervised rentals to
irresponsible tenants or occupants by inept or indifferent landlords.
   B.   This chapter is enacted to preserve the peace and tranquility of the
community for its permanent residents, and for all persons and families
availing themselves of the facilities in the community.
   C.   The enactment of this chapter is necessary and desirable to provide a
means to curve and discourage those occasional excesses arising from
irresponsible rentals.  
§ 216-2. Responsibilities of occupants and owners/landlords.
[Amended 12-16-2016 by Ord. No. 31-2019]
   A.   The intention of this chapter is to regulate improper behavior by
occupants of residential rental premises within the Town of Hammonton. This
chapter establishes penalties and a procedure to be followed by landlords/
owners in the event that their tenants, or the tenant's invitees, guests and
such with their pets, engage in any disorderly conduct, nuisance, offensive
language or other behaviors of conduct which is in violation of any state or
federal statute, regulation or any provision of the Town of Hammonton Municipal
Code.
   B.   In no event shall landlords/owners be personally responsible for the
behavior of their tenants, regardless of whether that behavior occurs on or
about the rental premises or off premises. However, in the case of improper
behavior occurring on or about the rental premises, landlord/owners shall
follow the procedure outlined below or be subject to the prescribed penalties
for failure to follow those procedures.
§ 216-3. Notice of violation; subsequent violations.
[Amended 12-16-2016 by Ord. No. 31-2019]
   A.   Upon the occurrence of any violation by an occupant of a residential
rental premises within the Town of Hammonton or their invitees, guests and/or
their pets which results in the issuance of a written warning or summons to
those individuals, the landlord or owner of the property shall be placed on
notice by receiving written notification of said violation via certified mail,
return receipt requested, from the person so designated by Town Council to
forward said notice. Said notice shall generally inform the landlord and/or
owner of the nature of the violation and the date upon which said violation
occurred. Said notice shall also require the landlord to provide the tenant
with notice via certified mail, return receipt requested, or by personal
delivery to cease said behavior and to provide the designated municipal
official with proof that it has done so. Said notice shall also state that a
second violation by the tenant of this Article shall result in said landlord
and/or owner being cited and otherwise charged with a violation of this
Article, which may result in a hearing on said violation to be heard in the
Town of Hammonton Municipal Court.
   B.   Upon a tenant receiving a second warning/summons (notice of which shall
also be provided via certified mail, return receipt requested, to landlord),
then said landlord and/or owner may be cited for violation of this article and
noticed for a hearing to be held in the Town of Hammonton Municipal Court
unless the landlord provides proof within 30 days that it has commenced and in
good faith prosecuted an action for eviction in Landlord/Tenant Court. The
Municipal Court action shall be stayed pending conclusion of the eviction
action, the results of which shall be provided to the Town's designated
representative within five days of conclusion by the landlord/owner providing a
written certification to the Town of the final resolution. The landlord's
provision of such proof shall result in a dismissal of the action hereunder,
regardless of the outcome in Landlord/Tenant Court, assuming same was
prosecuted by the landlord to conclusion, but shall not relieve landlord of its
obligation to file a future eviction action in the event of a subsequent
violation of this article by the same tenant.
   C.   For purposes of determining the number of warning/summons received by
any tenant, the said Tenant shall be relieved of one violation/summons for each
twelve-month period in which that tenant receives no warning or summons.
§ 216-4. Violations and penalties.
Any landlord/owner who shall violate the provisions of this article shall, upon
conviction, be subject to a fine not to exceed $750 for a first offense and up
to $1,000 for any subsequent conviction.
Article II.
Procedures To Require An Owner of Rental Property Which Has Become a Source of
at Least Two Substantiated Complaints to Post a Bond or Equivalent Security to
Compensate For Any Future Damage or Expense Suffered From Future Repetition of
Disorderly, Indecent, Tumultuous or Riotous Conduct.  
§ 216-5. Legislative findings.
[Added 12-16-2019 by Ord. No. 31-2019]
The Legislature of the State of New Jersey enacted N.J.S. 40:48-2.12(n) et seq.
to enable municipalities to take effective action to assure that excesses, when
they occur, shall not be repeated, and that landlord's offering rentals be held
to sufficient standards of responsibility.
§ 216-6. Definitions.
[Added 12-16-2019 by Ord. No. 31-2019]
For purposes of this Article II, the following meanings shall apply:
HEARING OFFICER – Shall mean a licensed attorney of the State of New Jersey
appointed by the Mayor, subject to the advice and consent of Town Council. The
Hearing Officer shall not own or lease any real property within the Town of
Hammonton, nor hold any interest in the assets of or profits arising from the
ownership of any property in the Town of Hammonton.
LANDLORD – Shall mean the person or persons who own or purport to own any
building in which there is rented or offered for rent housing space for living
or dwelling under either a written or oral lease, including but not limited to
any building subject to the "Hotel and Multiple Dwelling Law" (N.J.S. 55:13A-
1 et. seq.) and owner occupied two-unit premises. In the case of a mobile home
park "Landlord" shall mean the owner of an individual dwelling unit within the
mobile home park.
SUBSTANTIATED COMPLAINT – Shall mean conduct upon or in proximity to any rental
premises and attributable to acts or incidents by an occupant or tenant of a
rental premises that has been substantiated by prosecution and conviction in
any court of competent jurisdiction as a violation of any provision of Title 2C
of the New Jersey Statutes; or any municipal ordinance governing disorderly,
indecent, or riotous conduct, including by way of example and not limitation,
assault, terroristic threats, harassment, urinating in public, lewdness,
criminal mischief, or excessive noise.
§ 216-7. Hearing, penalty. 
[Added 12-16-2019 by Ord. No. 31-2019]
   A.   If, in any 24 month period two or more substantiated complaints, as
defined in §
216-6 hereof, on separate occasions, have been substantiated by prosecution and
conviction in any court of competent jurisdiction, Town Council or any officer
or employee of the Town designated by Town Council for this purpose, may
institute proceedings to require the landlord of the rental premises to post a
bond against the consequences of future incidences of the same or similar
character.
   B.   In the event tenant or occupant of a rental premises has a
Substantiated Complaint, Town Council, or the officer or employee designated
pursuant to §
216-7A. above, shall cause notice advising that the conduct specified has
occurred to be served on the landlord, in person or by certified mail, return
receipt requested, at the address appearing on the tax records of municipality.
   C.   In the event of two or more substantiated complaints, Town Council or
any officer or employee of the municipality designated by Town Council shall
cause to be served upon the landlord, in person or by certified mail, return
receipt requested, to the address appearing on the tax records of the
municipality, notice advising of the institution of such proceedings, together
the particulars of the substantiated complaints upon which those proceedings
are based, and of the time and place at which the hearing will be held in the
matter, which shall be in the Municipal Building, Municipal Court or such other
public place within the municipality as designated by Town Council, and which
shall be no sooner than 30 days from the date upon which the notice is served
or mailed.
   D.   At the hearing convened pursuant to §
216-7(C) above, the Hearing Officer shall give full hearing to both the
complaint of the Municipality and to any evidence in contradiction or
mitigation that the landlord, if present or represented and offering such
evidence, may present. The Hearing Officer may consider, to the extent deemed
relevant by the Hearing Officer, prior complaints about the property, even if
those complaints did not result in conviction. At the conclusion of the
hearing, the Hearing Officer shall determine whether the landlord shall be
required to post a bond in accordance with the terms of this Article II.
   E.   Any bond required to be posted shall be in accordance with the judgment
of the hearing officer, in light of the nature and extent of the offenses
indicated in the Substantiated Complaints upon which the proceedings are based,
to be adeguate in the case of subsequent offenses to make reparation for;
      (1)   Damages likely to be caused to public or private property and
damages consequent upon disruption of affected residents' rights of fair use
and quiet enjoyment of their premises;
      (2)   Securing the payment of fines and penalties likely to be levied for
such offenses; and
      (3)   Compensating the municipality for the cost of repressing and
prosecuting such incidents of disorderly behavior; provided, however, no such
bond shall be in an amount less than $500 or more than $5,000. The municipality
may enforce a bond thus requiring an action in a Superior Court, and shall be
entitled to an injunction prohibiting the landlord from making or renewing any
lease of the affected premises for residential purposes until that bond or
equivalent security, in satisfactory form and amount, has been deposited with
the municipality.
   F.   Any bond or other security deposited in compliance with §
216-7E. above shall remain in force for four years. Upon the lapse of the four
year period, the Landlord shall be entitled to the discharge of the bond,
unless prior thereto further proceedings leading to a forfeiture or partial
forfeiture of the bond or other security shall have been had under §
216-8 below, in which case the security shall be renewed in the amount and for
a period that shall be specified by the Hearing Officer. A transfer of the
ownership or control of the property shall not void a requirement of security
imposed under this Article II, The person or persons to whom ownership or
control is transferred shall maintain that security, and shall be subject to
injunctive proceedings as authorized by §
216-7E. above, in the same manner as the landlord upon which the requirement
was originally imposed; provided, however, Town Council may by Resolution
shorten the period for which security is required to not less than one year
form the date of the transfer of ownership or control, if during that year no
substantiated complaints are recorded with respect to the property in question.
§ 216-8. Bond forfeiture, extension. 
[Added 12-16-2019 by Ord. No. 31- 2019]
   A.   If during the period for which a landlord is required to give security
pursuant to this Article II, a substantiated complaint is recorded against the
property in question, Town Council or its designee may institute proceedings
against the landlord for the forfeiture or partial forfeiture of the security;
for an extension as provided in §
216-7F. above, of the period for which the securities require; or for an
increase in the amount of security required; or for any or all of those
purposes.
   B.   Any forfeiture or partial forfeiture of securities shall be determined
by the Hearing Officer solely in accordance with the amount deemed necessary to
provide for the compensatory purposes set forth in §
216-7E. above. Any decision by the Hearing Officer to increase the amount or
extend the period of the required security shall be determined in light of the
same factors set forth in §
216-7E. above, and shall be taken only to the extent that the nature of the
Substantiated Complaint(s) out of which proceedings arise under this action
indicated the appropriateness of such charge in order to effectually carry out
the purposes of this Article II. The decision of the Hearing Officer in such
circumstances shall be enforceable in the same manner as provided in §
216-7E. above.
ARTICLE III
Definitions; Registration and Licensing
§ 216-9. Definitions.
Unless the context clearly indicates a different meaning, the following words
or phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the following meaning:
   AGENT – The individual or individuals designated by the owner as the person
(s) authorized by the owner to perform any duty imposed upon the owner by this
article. The term does not necessarily mean a licensed real estate broker or
salesperson of the State of New Jersey, as those terms are defined by N.J.S.A.
45:15-3; however, such term may include a licensed real estate broker or
salesperson of the State of New Jersey, if such person designated by the owner
as his agent is so licensed.
   APARTMENT OR DWELLING – Any apartment, cottage, bungalow, any room or rooms
in a rooming/boardinghouse or other dwelling unit, consisting of one or more
rooms occupying all or part of a floor or floors in a building, whether
designed with or without housekeeping facilities for dwelling purposes and
notwithstanding whether the apartment be designed for residence, for office or
the operation of any industry or business or for any other type of independent
use. Each dwelling unit shall contain no more than one kitchen or cooking
facility.
   DWELLING UNIT – Any room or rooms or suite or apartment, including any room
or rooms in a rooming/boardinghouse, whether furnished or unfurnished, which is
occupied or intended, arranged or designed to be occupied for sleeping or
dwelling purposes by one or more persons, including but not limited to the
owner thereof or any of his servants, agents or employees, and shall include
all privileges, services, furnishings, furniture, equipment, facilities and
improvement connected with use or occupancy thereof. Each dwelling unit shall
contain no more than one kitchen or cooking facility.
   LICENSE – The license issued by the Town Clerk or designee attesting that
the rental unit has been properly registered in accordance with this article.
   LICENSEE – The person to whom the license is issued pursuant to this
article. The term "licensee" includes within its definition the term "agent",
where applicable.
   OWNER – Any person or group of persons, firm, corporation or officer
thereof, partnership, association or trust who owns, operates, exercises
control over, or is in charge of a rental facility.
   OWNER-OCCUPIED – A portion of a rental facility, dwelling, commercial unit
or dwelling unit shall be considered owner-occupied if the owner makes his
primary residence therein. A person may have only one primary residence in the
Town.
   PERSON – An individual, firm, corporation, partnership, association, trust
or other legal entity, or any combination thereof.
   RENTAL FACILITY – Every building, group of buildings or a portion thereof
consisting of less than three dwelling units which has sleeping facilities for
less than 25 occupants, kept, used, maintained, advertised or held out to be a
place where living accommodations are supplied, whether furnished or
unfurnished, for pay or other consideration, to one or more individuals.
   RENTAL UNIT – A dwelling unit or commercial unit which is available by
lease, rental or otherwise to persons other than the owner. "Rental unit" shall
not include that portion of a rental facility, dwelling, commercial unit or
dwelling unit that is owner-occupied.
   RENT OR RENTED – Occupied by any person or persons other than the owner,
regardless of whether there is a written or oral agreement and regardless of
whether the owner receives consideration for the occupancy.
   TENANCY – Occupancy of the unit by one or more tenants.
   TENANT – Occupant in a unit by other than the owner.   
§ 216-10. Registration required.
All rental units shall hereafter be registered with the Town Clerk or designee
of the Town of Hammonton, or such other person as designated by the Town
Council, on forms which shall be provided for that purpose and which shall be
obtained from the Town Clerk or designee. Such registration shall occur on an
annual basis, as provided herein.
§ 216-11. Registration upon change in occupancy; term; initial registration
provisions.
The landlord/owner shall inform the Town in writing upon any change in
occupancy of the premises and shall supply at that time the information
required by §
216-19 below. Each rental unit shall be registered with each change in
occupancy. The initial license term shall commence on May 1, 2007, and shall be
valid for one year, at which time it shall expire and a new registration shall
be required. The initial registration shall occur on May 1, 2007. Any lease
which has been executed prior to the adoption of this article shall not be
affected, but the rental unit must nevertheless be registered, inspected and
licensed in accordance with this article. No rental unit shall hereafter be
rented unless the rental unit is registered and licensed in accordance with
this article.
§ 216-12. Registration forms; filing; contents.
[Amended 12-16-2019 by Ord. No. 31-2019]
Without in any way intending to infringe upon the requirements of N.J.S.A. 46:
8-28, all rental units shall be registered and licensed, as provided herein.
Every owner shall file with the Town Clerk or designee of the Town of
Hammonton, or such other person as designated by the Town Council, a
registration form for each unit contained within a building or structure, which
shall include the following information:
   A.   The name and address of the record owner or owners of the premises and
the record owner or owners of the rental business, if not the same persons. In
the case of a partnership, the name and addresses of all general partners shall
be provided, together with the telephone numbers for each of such individuals,
where such individual may be reached both during the day and evening hours.
   B.   If the address of any record owner is not located in the Town of
Hammonton or in Atlantic County, the name and address of a person who resides
in Atlantic County and who is authorized to accept notices from a tenant and to
issue receipts therefor and to accept service of process on behalf of the
record owner.
   C.   The name and address of the agent of the premises, if any.
   D.   The name and address, including the dwelling unit number of the
superintendent, janitor, custodian or other individual, employed by the owner
or agent to provide regular maintenance service, if any.
   E.   The name, address and telephone number of an individual representative
of the owner or agent or the owner, if domiciled in Atlantic County, who may be
reached or contacted at any time in the event of an emergency affecting the
premises or any unit of dwelling space therein, including such emergencies as
the failure of any essential service or system and who has the authority to
make emergency decisions concerning the building and any repair thereto or
expenditure in connection therewith.
   F.   The name and address of every holder of a recorded mortgage on the
premises.
   G.   If fuel oil is used to heat the building and the landlord furnishes the
heat in the building, the name and address of the fuel oil dealer servicing the
building and the grade of fuel oil used.
   H.   As to each rental unit, a specification of the exact number of sleeping
rooms contained in the rental unit. In order to satisfy the requirement of this
provision, an owner shall submit a floor plan, which shall become part of the
application and which shall be attached to the registration form when filed by
the Town Clerk or designee.
   I.   As to each rental unit, a specification of the exact number of
occupants that shall occupy the rental unit.
   J.   Such other information as may be prescribed by the Town of Hammonton.
   K.   The information referenced in Subsections A through G hereof may be
provided by attaching the landlord registration statement mandated by N.J.S.A.
46:8-28 certifying that the information contained therein remains true and
accurate or, in the event of any change, amend said registration certificate
accordingly.
§ 216-13. Registration form indexing and filing; license to be posted.
The Town Clerk or designee shall index and file the registration forms. In
doing so, the Town Clerk or designee shall follow the mandates of N.J.S.A. 46:
8-28.1, as amended and supplemented, so that the filing of the registration
form will simultaneously satisfy the registration requirements of N.J.S.A. 46:
8-28 to the extent that it applies to the property being registered and will
also satisfy the registration requirements of this article. The owner shall
post the license in a conspicuous location in the dwelling.
§ 216-14. Amendments.
Every person required to file a registration form pursuant to this article
shall file an amended registration form within 20 days after any change in the
information required to be included thereon. No fee shall be required for the
filing of an amendment, except where the ownership of the premises is changed.
§ 216-15. Periodic inspections.
[Amended 12-16-2019 by Ord. No. 31-2019]
   A.   Each rental unit shall be inspected at least once every twelve-month
period.
   B.   Such inspections shall be performed by such person, persons or agency
duly authorized and appointed by the Town of Hammonton, and inspections made by
persons or an agency other than the duly authorized and appointed person,
persons or agency of the Town of Hammonton shall not be used as a valid
substitute.
   C.   Such inspection shall be for the purpose of determining zoning
ordinance compliance and, to the extent applicable, to determine if the
property complies with the Property Maintenance Code, Uniform Construction
Code, BOCA Maintenance Code, Housing Code and/or Building Code and/or Uniform
Fire Safety Act.
   D.   Unsatisfactory inspection. In the event that the inspection(s) of a
rental unit does not result in a satisfactory inspection, such property shall
not thereafter be registered, nor shall a license issue, and the owner of the
property or his agent shall not lease or rent such property, nor shall any
tenant occupy the property, until the necessary corrections have been made so
as to bring the property and rental unit into compliance with the applicable
code and the property is thereafter subsequently inspected, registered and
licensed. In the event that the property is occupied when such conditions are
discovered, all such corrections shall be made within 30 days, and if not made
within that time period, the owner shall be deemed in violation of this
article, and every day that the violation continues shall constitute a separate
and distinct violation, subject to the penalty provisions of this article. The
owner, however, shall be permitted to apply for extension of time to make
repairs or corrections so as to comply with this article, for good cause shown.
   E.   The owner of any property which is subject to an inspection every five
years by the State of New Jersey, Department of Community Affairs, Division of
Codes and Standards, Bureau of Housing Inspections shall be permitted to
provide the local inspection officer with a copy of a satisfactory report from
that agency in lieu of being required to participate in the local inspection
program in the year in with the state inspection occurred. For each year
thereafter, the property shall be subject to local inspection hereunder (with
the exception of any future year wherein a state inspection occurs consistent
with the provisions of this section).
[Added 12-21-2009 by Ord. No. 29-2009]
§ 216-16. Access for inspections and repairs; complaints.
[Amended 12-16-2019 by Ord. No. 31-2019]
   A.   The inspection officers are hereby authorized to make inspections to
determine the condition of rental facilities, rental units and rooming/
boardinghouses, in order that they may promote the purposes of this article to
safeguard the health, safety and welfare of the occupants of rental facilities,
rental units and rooming/boardinghouses and of the general public. For the
purposes of making such inspections, the inspecting officers are hereby
authorized to enter, examine and survey rental facilities, rental units and
rooming/boardinghouses at all reasonable times. The owner or occupant of every
rental facility, rental unit and rooming/boardinghouse shall give the
inspecting officer free access to the rental facility, rental unit and rooming/
boardinghouse at all reasonable times for the purpose of such inspections,
examinations and surveys.
   B.   Every occupant shall give the owner of the rental facility, rental unit
and rooming/boardinghouse access to any part of such rental facility, rental
unit and rooming/boardinghouse at all reasonable times for the purpose of
making such repairs or alterations as are necessary to effect compliance with
the provisions of this article or any lawful order issued pursuant thereto.
   C.   Complaints. Within 10 days of receipt of a bona fide complaint alleging
a reported violation of this article, an inspecting officer shall conduct an
inspection as hereinbefore provided.
   D.   Nothing contained within this section shall relieve the said inspector
from providing the landlord/owner and tenant/occupant with such prior notice,
if any, as required by current laws and/or regulations of the State of New
Jersey.
   E.   The inspection officer, if necessary, may apply to the Municipal Court
for a search warrant setting forth the factual circumstances that provide a
reasonable basis for believing that a violation of this article exists on the
premises and if the Municipal Judge is satisfied as to the matter set forth in
the affidavit, he/she shall authorize the issuance of a search warrant
permitting access to and inspection of that part of the premises on which the
violation allegedly exists.
§ 216-17. Occupancy of unregistered or unlicensed unit prohibited.
No person shall hereafter occupy any rental unit, nor shall the owner permit
occupancy of any rental unit within the Town of Hammonton, which is not
registered and licensed in accordance with this article.
§ 216-18. Issuance of license; revocation.
Upon the filing of a completed registration form and payment of the prescribed
fee, the owner shall be entitled to the issuance of a license renewable on May
1 of the next calendar year. Such license may be revoked upon receipt of an
unsatisfactory inspection not corrected in accordance with the procedures
outlined hereinabove. A registration form shall be required for each rental
unit, and license shall issue to the owner for each rental unit, even if more
than one rental unit is contained in the property. 
§ 216-19. Fees.
At the time of the filing of the registration form and prior to the issuance of
a license, the owner or agent of the owner must pay a fee in accordance with
the following:
   A.   Annual registration fees:
[Amended 4-18-2011 by Ord. No. 7-2011; 6-28-2021 by Ord. No. 007-2021]
      (1)    For one to seven non-owner-occupied units at one location: $150
per unit.
   (2)   For eight to 25 non-owner-occupied units at that same location: $125
per unit.
   (3)   For 26 or more non-owner-occupied units at the same location: $100 per
unit.
   B.   A reinspection fee as follows:
[Amended 6-28-2021 by Ord. No. 007-2021]
      (1)   First reinspection: no charge;
      (2)    Second reinspection: $50 per unit;
      (3)   Third reinspection: $50 per unit; and
      (4)   Fourth or subsequent reinspection: $50 per unit.
   C.   If the owner of the property is a senior citizen who resides in a unit
of the property and rents out the remaining unit and would otherwise qualify
under the State of New Jersey property tax deduction under N.J.S.A. 54:4-8.41,
there shall be no fee.
   D.   If any fee is not paid within 30 days of its due date, a late fee
surcharge of $30 will be assessed.
§ 216-20. Owner to provide registration form to occupants and tenants.
Every owner shall provide each occupant or tenant occupying a rental unit with
a copy of the registration form required by this article. This particular
provision shall not apply to any hotel, motel or guesthouse registered with the
State of New Jersey, pursuant to the Hotel and Multiple Dwelling Act, as
defined in N.J.S.A. 55:13A-3. This provision may be complied with by posting a
copy of the license in a conspicuous place within the rental unit(s).
§ 216-21. Maximum number of occupants; posting.
   A.   The maximum number of occupants shall be posted in each rental unit. It
shall be unlawful for any person, including the owner, agent, tenant, to allow
a greater number of persons than the posted maximum number of occupants to
sleep in or occupy overnight the rental unit for a period exceeding 21 days.
Any person violating this provision shall be subject to the penalty provisions
hereof.
   B.   In the event the Town's authorized representatives have a reasonable
basis to conclude that the occupancy limit for a particular unit is being
exceeded, it shall provide notice of that fact to the landlord, who shall
investigate and thereafter certify by its sworn signature, on forms to be
supplied by the Town, that it has corrected any violation and that, to the best
of this knowledge, no current violation exists.
§ 216-22. Payment of taxes and other charges as precondition for registration
and license.
No rental unit may be registered and no license shall issue for any property,
containing a rental unit, whose taxes, water, sewer or other municipal
assessments are more than two quarters in arrears. If landlord/owner provides
the Town with a repayment plan, in writing, certifying its intention to
eliminate said arrearages, the Town may issue a conditional license revocable
upon landlord/owner's failure to comply with said plan.
§ 216-23. Other rental unit standards.
All dwelling units shall be maintained in accordance with the Uniform
Construction Code and the BOCA National Property Maintenance Code.
§ 216-24. Occupancy standards.
[Amended 12-16-2019 by Ord. No. 31-2019]
   A.   In the event the Town has a reasonable basis to believe that the
occupancy limit is being exceeded, the Town's designated representative shall
contact the landlord, who shall use his/her best efforts to obtain and provide
to the Town the name of each permitted occupant of the dwelling. It shall be a
violation of this chapter for any other person(s) to reside in said premises,
and repeated occupancy violations by a tenant shall subject the tenant and
landlord to the requirements and penalties set forth in Article I of this
chapter.
   B.   Nuisance prohibited. No rental facility shall be conducted in a manner
which shall result in any unreasonable disturbance or disruption to the
surrounding properties and property owners or of the public in general, such
that it shall constitute a nuisance, as defined in the ordinances of the Town
of Hammonton.
   C.   Compliance with other laws. The maintenance of all rental facilities
and the conduct engaged in upon the premises by occupants and their guests
shall at all times be in full compliance with all applicable ordinances and
regulations of the Town of Hammonton and with all applicable state and federal
laws. However, any landlord licensed in accordance with this article shall not
be subject to the Hammonton certificate of occupancy ordinance as annual
compliance with this chapter shall waive the need for a CCO.
§ 216-25. Revocation of license; procedure.
   A.   Grounds. In addition to any other penalty prescribed herein, an owner,
subject to Article I, §§
216-1 and
216-2 above, may be subject to the revocation or suspension of the license
issued hereunder upon the happening of one or more of the following:
      (1)   Conviction of a violation of this article in the Municipal Court or
any other court of competent jurisdiction.
      (2)    Determination of a violation of this article at a hearing held.
      (3)   Continually renting the unit or units to a tenant or tenants who
are convicted of a violation of the Noise Ordinance of the Town.
      (4)   Continually permitting the rental unit to be occupied by more than
the maximum number of occupants as defined in this article.
      (5)   Maintaining the rental unit or units or the property in which the
rental unit is a part in a dangerous condition likely to result in injury to
person or property.
   B.   Procedure; written complaint; notice; hearing.
      (1)   Prior to a complaint being filed pursuant to the terms of this
section, the Town's designated representative shall provide a written warning
to the landlord that a revocation complaint shall be issued unless the issues
forming the basis for same are addressed and corrected within 30 days of
issuance of the warning notice.
      (2)   A complaint seeking the revocation or suspension of a license may
be filed by any one or more of the following: Director of Public Safety, Chief
of Police, Construction Code Official, Housing Inspector, the Zoning
Enforcement Officer or any other persons or office authorized to file such
complaint. Such complaint shall be in writing and filed with the Town Clerk or
designee. The complaint shall be specific and shall be sufficient to apprise
the licensee of the charges, so as to permit the licensee to present a defense.
The individual(s) filing the complaint may do so on the basis of information
and belief and need not rely on personal information.
      (3)   Upon the filing of such written complaint, the Town Clerk or
designee shall immediately inform the Town Council, and a date for a hearing
shall be scheduled, which shall not be sooner than 10 nor more than 30 days
thereafter. The Town Clerk or designee shall forward a copy of the complaint
and a notice, as to the date of the hearing, to the licensee and the agent, if
any, at the address indicated on the registration form. Service upon the agent
shall be sufficient.
      (4)   The hearing required by this section shall be held before the Town
Council, unless, in its discretion, the Town Council determines that the matter
should be heard by a Hearing Officer, who shall be appointed by the Town
Council. If the matter is referred to a Hearing Officer, such officer shall
transmit his findings of fact and conclusions of law to the Town Council within
30 days of the conclusion of the hearing. The Town Council shall then review
the matter and may accept, reject or modify the recommendations of the Hearing
Officer based on the record before such Hearing Officer. In the event that the
matter is not referred to a Hearing Officer and is heard by the Town Council,
then the Town Council shall render a decision within 30 days of the conclusion
of the hearing. Following the hearing, a decision shall be rendered dismissing
the complaint, revoking or suspending the license, or determining that the
license shall not be renewed or reissued for one or more subsequent license
years.
      (5)   A stenographic transcript shall be made of the hearing. All
witnesses shall be sworn prior to testifying. The strict rules of evidence
shall not apply, and the evidential rules and burden of proof shall be that
which generally controls administrative hearings.
      (6)   The Town Solicitor or his designee shall appear and prosecute on
behalf of the complainant in all hearings conducted pursuant to this section.
   C.   Defenses. It shall be a defense to any proceeding for the revocation,
suspension or other disciplinary action involving a rental license by
demonstrating that the owner has taken appropriate action and has made a good
faith effort to abate the conditions or circumstances giving rise to the
revocation proceeding, including but not limited to the institution of legal
action against the tenant(s), occupant(s) or guests for recovery of the
premises, eviction of the tenant(s) or otherwise.
§ 216-26. Violations and penalties.
Any person who violates any provision of this article shall, upon conviction in
the Municipal Court of the Town of Hammonton, or such other court having
jurisdiction, be liable to a fine not exceeding $750 for a first offense and
not exceeding $1,000 for any subsequent violation.
CHAPTER 217.
RENT CONTROL
[HISTORY: Adopted by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton 10-
25-1976 by Ord. No. 19-1976. Amendments noted where applicable.]
   
§ 217-1.   Definitions and word usage.
   
§ 217-2.   Establishment of rents; increases.
   
§ 217-3.   Information supplied to Board and tenant by owner.
   
§ 217-4.   Formula for establishment of ceiling rent.
   
§ 217-5.   Establishment of ceiling rent by Board; rent increases.
   
§ 217-6.   Basis for determining need for emergency rent increase.
   
§ 217-7.   Grant of emergency rent increase; monitoring of situation.
   
§ 217-8.   Maintenance of standards by owner; petition by tenant.
   
§ 217-9.   Additional charge for capital improvements or increased service.
   
§ 217-10.   Leases.
   
§ 217-11.   Determination of rental housing emergency.
   
§ 217-12.   Establishment of base rent for certain preexisting apartments.
   
§ 217-13.   Coin-operated devices; payment of gratuity by tenant.
   
§ 217-14.   Inadvertent overcharge by owner; refund.
   
§ 217-15.   Late charges in relation to maximum or ceiling rent.
   
§ 217-16.   Increase under certain leases; escalation clause.
   
§ 217-17.   Retaliation by owner or tenant due to provisions.
   
§ 217-18.   Resolution of complaints or petitions; jurisdiction of Board.
   
§ 217-19.   Notification to tenants of Board's decision.
   
§ 217-20.   Powers of Board; representation of counsel by owner or tenant.
   
§ 217-21.   Violations and penalties.
   
§ 217-22.   Conflict with state law or other municipal ordinances.
   
§ 217-23.   Extension of moratoriums.
   
§ 217-24.   Market adjustment for individual unit when vacated.
   
§ 217-25.   Partial repeal.
GENERAL REFERENCES
   Rent Control Board — See
Ch. 6, Art. IV.
§ 217-1. Definitions and word usage.
   A.   Definitions. As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have
the meanings indicated:
   APARTMENT
   That portion of a complex rented or offered for rent for living and dwelling
purposes, to one individual or family unit, together with all privileges,
services, equipment, facilities and improvements connected with the use or
occupancy of such portion of the complex.
   BASE RENT
   The average of those sums of money paid per month by tenants to a single
landlord in a single complex, under leases or rental agreements as of January
21, 1975, for rental of apartments of similar size, number of bedrooms and
amenities, or that average sum at which one such apartment then vacant was
offered for rental.
   CEILING RENT
   That rent which is produced as the result of the modification of the base
rent in accordance with §
217-4 hereof.
   COMPLEX
   That building or structure or group of adjacent or contiguous buildings or
structures rented or offered for rent by one owner and which consist of four or
more apartment units therein.
   CONSUMER PRICE INDEX
   The United States consumer price index for the Philadelphia Metropolitan
Region, as published by the United States Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor
Statistics.
   LEASE
   That written agreement which creates and establishes the relationship
between landlord and tenant for a term of more than one month and consists of
all terms and conditions thereof.
   MAXIMUM RENT
   That rent which is produced by the operation of § 126-6 hereof. Editor's
Note: Section 126-6 refers to former § 126-6, Limit on rent increase;
exception, which was repealed 8-26-1991 by Ord. No. 18-1991.
   OWNER
   That person, corporation, partnership, trust or other entity which owns and/
or operates an apartment complex.
   RENT
   That sum of money payable under a lease or rental agreement as consideration
for the right to use and occupy an apartment.
   RENTAL AGREEMENT
   That agreement, other than a lease, whether written or oral, that
establishes a relationship of landlord and tenant for successive monthly
periods.
   RENT CONTROL BOARD
   The administrative body consisting of five individuals appointed and acting
in accordance with Chapter 6, §
6-26.
   TENANT
   That individual who holds or possesses an apartment and has the right to use
and occupy same in accordance with a lease or rental agreement.
   B.   Word usage. References herein to persons which appear in the masculine
singular shall be deemed to include the feminine and plural, as the context may
require.
§ 217-2. Establishment of rents; increases.
   Establishment of rents between an owner and a tenant to whom this chapter is
applicable shall hereafter be governed by the provisions of this chapter. No
rent may be charged or collected for any apartment in excess of the ceiling
rent which may be lawfully charged hereunder. No agreement between any owner
and tenant shall be deemed to constitute a waiver by the tenant of any of his
rights under this chapter. Any provision in any lease which shall provide for
the payment of any amount of additional rent by virtue of any increase in any
expense of the landlord, unless otherwise specifically authorized hereunder,
shall be unenforceable, but shall not void the entire lease.
§ 217-3. Information supplied to Board and tenant by owner.
   Each owner of a complex in the Town of Hammonton shall, by affidavit,
provide the Rent Control Board with the base rents for each apartment therein
within 20 days from and after the effective date of this chapter. Such base
rents shall be deemed to have been properly established and to be controlling,
unless the Board, within 20 days after receipt of said affidavit, objects to
the same or to any portion thereof by serving written notice upon the owner
stating its objection. With and in support of said affidavit, the owner shall
submit such appropriate documentary evidence to verify the same as the Rent
Control Board may reasonably require. In addition to the foregoing, each owner
shall provide to each of its tenants within 20 days from and after the
effective date of this chapter, by serving written notice thereof, the
following information:
   A.   The base rent for the tenant's apartment as reported by the owner of
the Rent Control Board.
   B.   The ceiling rent for the tenant's apartment.
   C.   The maximum rent for the tenant's apartment.
   D.   The earliest date upon which any owner may increase the tenant's rent.
   E.   Any increase due to retroactivity which is permitted under
Chapter 6, Article IV, Rent Control Board, relating to the maximum rental to be
charged there under.
§ 217-4. Formula for establishment of ceiling rent.
   The ceiling rent shall be the product of calculation by which the base rent
is multiplied by a factor equal to the percentage by which the consumer price
index for January 21, 1976, is increased over the consumer price index for
January 21, 1975.
§ 217-5. Establishment of ceiling rent by Board; rent increases.
   On or before February 15, 1977, and on February 15 of each and every year
thereafter while this chapter remains in effect, the Rent Control Board shall
ascertain the percentage change in the consumer price index for the period of
January 21, 1975, and January 21 of the year being considered, and thereupon it
shall establish a new ceiling rent which shall be based upon the percentage
change in the consumer price index so ascertained during said period. No rent
increase assessed against a tenant in occupancy of an apartment on the January
21 applicable shall exceed 15% of the rent then in effect.
§ 217-6. Basis for determining need for emergency rent increase.
   Any owner shall be entitled to an emergency rent increase upon petition to
the Rent Control Board if said Board, after a public hearing on the petition,
makes the following findings of fact:
   A.   That the apartment complex and each apartment therein, when properly,
efficiently and economically operated, without allowance for compensation to
the owner for services rendered in connection with the operation thereof, and
exclusive of any calculation of depreciation or obsolescence, is failing to
cover the costs of operation and the debt service involved in maintaining said
complex.
   B.   For the purpose of determining whether the debt service is being
covered by the schedule of rents employed for said apartment complex or
particular apartments therein, no debt service shall be considered that is in
excess of an amount equal to 80% of the assessed value of the apartment complex
as such appears on the tax assessment rolls of the Town of Hammonton, nor shall
any term of years be considered in determining whether debt service is being
met that is less than 20 in number.
   C.   In determining whether operating expenses are being met, it shall be
necessary for the owner to provide a statement from a certified public
accountant as to the actual operating expenses, with said statement broken down
into each category and verified as to each category of operating expenses by
said certified public accountant.
   D.   That the foregoing calculation is based upon occupancy which produces
rent equal to 95% of the gross pro forma rent roll of the complex at the
highest lawful rents then applicable.
§ 217-7. Grant of emergency rent increase; monitoring of situation.
   Upon a finding by the Rent Control Board that an owner is entitled to an
emergency rent increase pursuant to §
217-6 hereinabove, the Rent Control Board shall permit an increase sufficient
to produce the return called for in §
217-6A hereinabove, the increase as to each apartment affected to become
effective on the latter of the date of grant, or the expiration date of the
lease or rental agreement then in effect. The Rent Control Board shall retain
jurisdiction over each such case and shall monitor each such case quarterly,
and should the Rent Control Board, subsequent to its decision to grant an
emergency rent increase and after a further public hearing, determine that the
complex, when properly, efficiently and economically operated, can return to
its owner the proper percentage derived in accordance with §
217-6A hereinabove without the emergency rent increase; or determine that the
grant of said emergency rent increase was based, in whole or part, upon the
submission of information by the owner that was materially inaccurate or
incomplete, then said emergency rent increase shall, at the Board's option, be
modified or terminated and rescinded.
§ 217-8. Maintenance of standards by owner; petition by tenant.
   A.   Any and all amounts of maximum rent and ceiling rent determined in
accordance with this chapter shall be deemed to have been predicated upon the
continuation by the owner of the same services, amenities, conveniences and
facilities in the complex and each apartment therein as the owner provided,
without further compensation, under the lease or rental agreement in effect on
and as of January 21, 1976. The foregoing shall not be deemed to have been
breached by a failure or breakdown, provided that the owner uses due diligence
and dispatch and good faith in repairing or remedying the same.
   B.   Upon the breach of the owner's obligation as set forth in Subsection A
hereof, any tenant affected, either for himself or on behalf of the class of
all tenants similarly affected, may petition the Rent Control Board for an
appropriate reduction in rents. The Rent Control Board, after hearing testimony
at a public hearing, shall enter a finding determining whether there shall be a
reduction in the ceiling and maximum rents for the complex so affected, which
finding shall include such reduction in the rental value as shall be determined
by the Board's sole discretion and the effective date thereof.
§ 217-9. Additional charge for capital improvements or increased service.
   The owner may petition an additional charge to be added to the maximum rent
and ceiling rent for the provision of substantial capital improvements or
increases in services. The owner shall notify each tenant by certified mail of
the total cost of the proposed or completed capital improvement or increase in
services, the average cost per apartment of the improvement and the amount of
the additional charge being sought from each tenant. The owner seeking such an
additional charge shall petition for the same from the Rent Control Board,
which shall determine, after public hearing, whether said improvement or
increase in services is substantial and whether the proposed additional charge
is fair and equitable; and, upon its finding to such effect, it shall permit
such increase to take effect as it deems to be fair and equitable in the
circumstances. For the purpose hereof, the replacement by an owner of worn,
obsolete or deteriorated appliances, equipment, structures or facilities shall
not be deemed a capital improvement. If an owner and a tenant shall mutually
agree on substantial and extraordinary improvements to be made to a single
apartment for the sole use and benefit of a single tenant, said owner and
tenant may file a joint petition with the Rent Control Board, setting forth the
nature of the improvements and the additional rent, agreed upon between them.
The Rent Control Board shall approve said additional rent increase if it finds
the same to be reasonable and fair and equitable as between the owner and
tenant after full disclosure by the owner of all material facts relating to the
nature, cost and quality of same.
§ 217-10. Leases.
   The maximum and ceiling rents provided herein contemplate the existence of
valid and binding annual leases. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to
forbid an owner from establishing a schedule to apply only as to leases which
are made for terms of less than one year. No owner, without just cause, may
refuse the bona fide offer of a tenant to enter into or renew an annual lease
at the maximum or ceiling rent, nor shall any owner be required to enter into
any lease or rental agreement for a term less than one year or to provide the
aforesaid options. In the event that the Rent Control Board shall determine
that an owner shall have willfully, and without just cause, refused to offer a
one-year lease while offering to rent to the same tenant on the terms
hereinabove described in this section, the same shall constitute a violation of
this chapter, and the Rent Control Board shall certify the same to the office
of the Attorney General of New Jersey. Any tenant with an annual lease or a
lease for a greater term who holds over after the term expires and who has
refused an offer of a new annual lease shall not be subject to the maximum or
ceiling rents for the holdover period.
§ 217-11. Determination of rental housing emergency.
   The Rent Control Board shall determine the number of apartments located
within the Town of Hammonton, the number of apartments occupied or vacant, the
number of apartments then under construction and the population of the town at
its most recent census, and it shall certify the same to the Town Clerk/
Administrator not more than 120 days from and after the effective date of this
chapter. Annually thereafter, the Rent Control Board shall make such further
investigation as may be required to determine the number of apartments then in
the Town of Hammonton, the number of apartments which are then occupied or
vacant, the number of apartments which have then been newly constructed within
the previous year and the number then under construction, the population of the
Town of Hammonton at its then most recent census and the number of apartments
then, per capita, in the Town of Hammonton. The findings of such investigation
shall be filed with the Town Clerk/Administrator. When the Board shall
determine that the number of apartments available for rental in the Town of
Hammonton, per capita, has increased by 100% over the number of apartments, per
capita, determined to be in existence as of 120 days after the effective date
of this chapter, the Board shall certify to the governing body that a rental
housing emergency no longer exists.
§ 217-12. Establishment of base rent for certain preexisting apartments.
   If an apartment which is existing when this chapter is adopted shall not
have been in the rental market on January 21, 1975, the Rent Control Board
shall determine the fair market value of such apartment as of January 21, 1975,
and such established fair market value shall constitute the base rent for such
apartment.
§ 217-13. Coin-operated devices; payment of gratuity by tenant.
   A.   Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to establish a ceiling or
limitation on the price of any coin-operated machine or device located at any
complex, provided that the goods or services sold in connection therewith were
not previously offered without charge as part of the rental of an apartment.
   B.   Any landlord who shall receive from a prospective tenant any sum of
money which constitutes a gratuity or a fee paid by the prospective tenant as
consideration for entering into a lease shall be required to deduct such sum of
money from the annual ceiling rent which may be charged for one year's
occupancy of the apartment in accordance with the terms of this chapter.
§ 217-14. Inadvertent overcharge by owner; refund.
   A.   If an owner shall have discovered that he has, by inadvertence or
mistake, made a charge in excess of the highest rent permissible under this
chapter, the owner may, if no complaint shall theretofore have been made to the
Rent Control Board by any tenant on account thereof, cure such inadvertence or
mistake by tendering to each tenant affected thereby a refund of such charge
with interest thereon at the rate of 9% per annum.
   B.   Should the Rent Control Board determine that a violation has occurred
pursuant to Subsection A hereinabove and that the same shall not have been
cured, the Rent Control Board shall certify such violation to the Town
Solicitor, who shall, on behalf of each and every tenant thereby affected, sue
the owner for damages, costs and fees in connection with such litigation. The
Town Solicitor shall be entitled to take such other action as may be deemed
necessary in accordance with the foregoing.
   C.   No owner or his agent, employee or servant, shall be liable for an
unlawful act hereunder, unless such unlawful act shall clearly afford monetary
benefit to the owner.
§ 217-15. Late charges in relation to maximum or ceiling rent.
   The assessment and collection of late charges for more than a ten-day
delinquency, interest, costs or other penalties which may be assessed in
connection with a tenant's neglect, failure, delay or refusal to pay rent when
it becomes due under the terms of a lease or rental agreement or otherwise to
comply with the terms thereof shall not constitute charges in excess of the
maximum or ceiling rents; both the applicability of such charges may be
contested at law by the tenant. Assessment and collection of a late charge for
delinquency of less than 10 days in any rental payment shall be added to the
rent charged for the apartment, to determine whether the owner has exceeded the
maximum or ceiling rent. Nothing in this section shall inhibit the right of
either the owner or the tenant to seek such remedies at law as may be available
to him, whether such remedies include a dispossession or other actions at law,
it being the intent of this section merely to make a determination as to
whether or not an owner is exceeding the maximum or ceiling rents as defined
herein.
§ 217-16. Increase under certain leases; escalation clause.
   Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to permit an owner to increase rent
during the term of any lease which is in effect on the date this chapter
becomes effective. In the event that any lease shall provide an escalation
clause permitting such increase during the term of this lease, the provisions
of such lease shall govern to the extent that such provisions are not in
conflict with this chapter.
§ 217-17. Retaliation by owner or tenant due to provisions.
   Neither the owner nor the tenant shall take any harassing or retaliatory
action each as to the other as a result of this chapter and its enforcement.
§ 217-18. Resolution of complaints or petitions; jurisdiction of Board.
   When it shall receive notice of the existence of a dispute within its
jurisdiction, the Rent Control Board shall first attempt to resolve by
conciliation any complaint or petition filed either by the owner or by the
tenant, without the necessity of a public hearing. In the event that the Rent
Control Board shall be unable to resolve any such compliant or petition, then
the terms of the ordinance shall govern the disposition of such complaint or
petition. The Rent Control Board shall have the absolute power to reject any
complaint or petition if it determines that the Board has no jurisdiction to
act upon the subject matter of such complaint or petition.
§ 217-19. Notification to tenants of Board's decision.
   All decisions rendered by the Rent Control Board shall be made in writing
and shall be sent to all tenants who are paying rent at the apartment which
involves the complaint or petition heard by the Rent Control Board, at the
expense of the owner involved.
§ 217-20. Powers of Board; representation of counsel by owner or tenant.
   The Rent Control Board shall have the right to elect officers, to establish
its rules of order and to establish the forms, rules and procedures to be
followed in connection with all proceedings of the Rent Control Board. The
Board shall have the power to issue and promulgate such rules and regulations
as it deems necessary to implement the purposes of this chapter, which rules
and regulations shall have the force of law until revised, repealed or amended
from time to time by the Rent Control Board in the exercise of its discretion,
provided that such rules and regulations are filed with the Town Clerk/
Administrator. An owner or a tenant may appear before the Rent Control Board
with or without the representation of counsel.
§ 217-21. Violations and penalties.
   A.   All violations of this chapter, other than those set forth in
Subsection B as hereinafter stated, shall be considered violations of a
municipal ordinance which may be prosecuted by any affected party in the
Municipal Court of the Town of Hammonton and would subject the person violating
any provision of this chapter to one or more of the following: a fine of not
more than $1,000, imprisonment for a period not to exceed 90 days or a period
of community service not to exceed 90 days. For the purpose of this section,
each apartment within a complex in which a violation is found to exist shall be
considered a separate violation.
   B.   Any individual who files with the Rent Control Board documentation
containing a material misstatement of fact or who makes a verbal
misrepresentation to the Rent Control Board shall be subject to one or more of
the following: a fine of not more than $1,000, imprisonment for a period not to
exceed 90 days or a period of community service not to exceed 90 days. All
violations of this section shall be prosecuted by the Hammonton Municipal Court
by and in the name of the Rent Control Board only.
§ 217-22. Conflict with state law or other municipal ordinances.
   Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to preempt and/or supersede any of
the statutes of the State of New Jersey or any health, housing and/or zoning
codes, ordinances, laws or regulations which may now or hereafter govern
apartments in the Town of Hammonton, all of which are deemed to be outside the
jurisdiction of the Rent Control Board.
§ 217-23. Extension of moratoriums.
   Those moratoriums imposed by Ordinance No. 21-1975 as extended by Ordinance
No. 2-1976 Editor's Note: See
Ch. 6, Art. IV, Rent Control Board. and by Ordinance No. 17-1976 are hereby
extended to the effective date of this chapter, subject to all of the terms and
conditions set forth within said aforementioned ordinances.
§ 217-24. Market adjustment for individual unit when vacated.
[Added 7-23-2001 by Ord. No. 25-2001]
   A.   An individual unit within a rent controlled complex may receive relief
from rent control restrictions concerning the amount of rent by determining and
fixing a rent determined by the owner to be market value, subject, however, to
the following conditions:
      (1)   An individual unit within a complex must be vacant and not subject
to an enforceable lease.
      (2)   The individual unit must be registered with the Rent Control Board
and inspected by the Code Enforcement Officer of the Town of Hammonton, who
shall certify that the individual unit has been inspected and a certificate of
continued occupancy (CCO) has been issued.
      (3)   Pay all applicable fees for the issuance of a continued certificate
of occupancy.
      (4)   The base rent of the individual unit shall remain at the same level
as all other units within the rent controlled complex.
   B.   Effect on complex definition. The temporary relief and removal of a
unit from rent control for the purpose of adjusting to market value shall not
effect the definition and jurisdiction of the complex as defined herein from
rent control. A complex subject to rent control shall continue to be subject to
rent control notwithstanding this section.
§ 217-25. Partial repeal.
[Added 4-28-2008 by Ord. No. 14-2008]
   The provisions of this chapter shall no longer apply to any lease or rental
agreement entered into on or after the effective date of this amendment. Those
leases and rental agreements shall hereinafter be known as "market leases" and/
or "market rental agreements," as appropriate, and rents established there
under shall no longer be limited by the provisions of
Chapter 217. Any leases or rental agreements in existence prior to the
effective date of this amendment shall continue to be subject in all respects
to the provisions of
Chapter 217. However, upon the termination of occupancy by a tenant whose rent
was previously governed by
Chapter 217, the rental cap formerly provided by
Chapter 217 shall cease to exist. Nothing contained herein shall change the
status of any deed restricted affordable rental units heretofore or
subsequently established in the Town of Hammonton.
CHAPTER 220.
SATELLITE EARTH STATIONS
[HISTORY: Adopted by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton 4-
14-1986 by Ord. No. 7-1986. Amendments noted where applicable.]
   
§ 220-1.   Definitions.
   
§ 220-2.   Administration of provisions.
   
§ 220-3.   Procedure for placement.
   
§ 220-4.   Plan details.
   
§ 220-5.   Design standards.
   
§ 220-6.   Fees.
   
§ 220-7.   Violations and penalties.
   
§ 220-8.   Appeals.
GENERAL REFERENCES
   Uniform construction codes — See
Ch. 115.
   Land development — See
Ch. 175.
§ 220-1. Definitions.
   As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
indicated:
   SATELLITE EARTH STATION
   Any apparatus, building or structure which is designed for the purpose of
receiving television, radio, microwave, satellite or similar signals in
connection with what is commonly referred to as "dish-type antennas."
§ 220-2. Administration of provisions.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be administered by the Construction
Code Official of the Town of Hammonton.
§ 220-3. Procedure for placement.
   A.   Any property owner or person or entity in possession of property shall
submit to the Construction Code Official, prior to the placement of a satellite
earth station, a plan showing the size of the satellite earth station, the
proposed location of the same on the subject premises and such other
information as may be required herein.
   B.   The Construction Code Official shall review said plan and render a
decision within 20 days of the submission of said plan or within such further
time as may be consented to by the property owners or person in possession of
property.
§ 220-4. Plan details.
   The plan shall be drawn on a map to a scale not smaller than one inch equals
40 feet and not larger than one inch equals 10 feet and shall include and show
the following information.
   A.   The name and address of the applicant and the owner, and the name,
address and title of the person or entity preparing the plan and accompanying
data, and the date of preparation and the dates of each revision, where
applicable.
   B.   An appropriate place for the signature of the Construction Code
Official.
   C.   The lot and block numbers of the lot(s), from the Tax Map of the Town
of Hammonton, and the length and bearings of the lot lines of the proposed
project.
   D.   The location, names and pavement and right-of-way widths of all
existing and proposed streets abutting the lot or lots in question; the
property lines of all abutting properties, together with the names and
addresses as disclosed on the Tax Map and tax rolls of the Town of Hammonton as
of the date of the application; and the location of existing buildings within
200 feet of the site in question.
   E.   All existing buildings and structures and all accessory buildings or
structures on the lot, if any, with dimensions showing present and finished
grade elevations at all corners.
   F.   All existing and proposed setback dimensions and landscape areas and
trees of six-inch caliper on the site affected by the proposed apparatus.
   G.   Existing and proposed plantings to provide screening for noise, glare
and aesthetics.
   H.   Any and all other information necessary to meet any of the requirements
of this chapter not listed above.
§ 220-5. Design standards.
   A.   The diameter of satellite earth station antennas (parabolic dish) shall
not be greater than four meters.
   B.   The maximum height of antennas and mounting structures, measured
vertically from the highest point of the antennas when positioned for
operation, shall not be greater than four meters above the ground, unless said
height would cause unnecessary cutting of trees, in which event, the antenna
may be installed at a height not greater than six meters, with the approval of
the Construction Official.
   C.   In all zoning districts, satellite earth stations shall be installed
only on the ground level.
   D.   No ground level satellite earth station shall be closer than 15 feet to
any side property line and no closer than 15 feet to any rear property line.
   E.   Ground level satellite earth stations shall be located in the rear yard
only.
   F.   Every satellite earth station shall be effectively and permanently
screened by a special planting or fence, in accordance with Chapter 137 of the
Code of the Town of Hammonton entitled "Fences and Barriers," as approved by
the Construction Code Official, which shall be maintained in good condition so
that said satellite earth station shall not be readily visible from any
adjacent property or public street.
   G.   Power and control signal cables from or to the satellite earth station
shall be underground and installed in accordance with the appropriate Building
Code, if any. Editor's Note: See
Ch. 115, Construction Codes, Uniform.
§ 220-6. Fees.
   The application fee for a permit to install a satellite earth station shall
be $25. In addition, the applicant shall deposit the sum of $100 to cover the
cost of review sources deemed necessary by the Construction Code Official, such
as the Town Engineer, Town Solicitor or other town personnel. The Treasurer of
the Town of Hammonton shall place the deposit in a trust account and shall
charge all disbursements for said review services. Any unused portion of the
deposit shall be returned to the applicant. If the cost of review services
exceeds the amount of deposit, sufficient additional funds shall be deposited
before any permit shall be issued.
§ 220-7. Violations and penalties.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall, for each and
every violation thereof and for each and every day that said violation
continues to be in existence, be subject to one or more of the following: a
fine of not more than $1,000, imprisonment for a period not to exceed 90 days
or a period of community service not to exceed 90 days, at the direction of the
Municipal Court Judge of the Town of Hammonton.
§ 220-8. Appeals.
   The Construction Code Official of the Town of Hammonton is hereby designated
as the public officer charged with the enforcement of the terms of this
chapter. All complaints for alleged violation of any terms of this chapter
shall be submitted, in writing, to said Construction Code Official. All appeals
from the decision of the Construction Code Official shall be made to the Zoning
Board of Adjustment of the Town of Hammonton.
CHAPTER 223.
SEWER CAPACITY, RESERVATION FOR
[HISTORY: Adopted by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton 6-
13-1988 by Ord. No. 10-1988. Amendments noted where applicable.]
   
§ 223-1.   Findings.
   
§ 223-2.   Automatic allocation of reservation.
   
§ 223-3.   Application procedure.
   
§ 223-4.   Priority of allocating remaining capacity; hearing.
   
§ 223-5.   Term of reservation; extensions.
   
§ 223-6.   Prerequisites to endorsement of applications for dry connections.
   
§ 223-7.   Annual fee to maintain reservation.
   
§ 223-8.   Fees.
   
§ 223-9.   Violations and penalties.
   
§ 223-10.   Notarized statement from industrial and commercial users.
GENERAL REFERENCES
   Development review — See
Ch. 175, Art. VIII.
   Sewers — See
Ch. 226.
§ 223-1. Findings.
   There is hereby determined as a fact to be a public need for the allocation
of capacity of the remaining capacity of the Hammonton Sewer Treatment Plant it
being understood that the present flow of approximately 900,000 gallons, plus
the projected flow of all developments which have applied for approvals within
the Town of Hammonton, as well as those entitled to hooking up to the sewer
under assessment of benefit procedures, will approximate the plant capacity of
1,600,000 gallons when such are on line, and thus it is determined to be in the
public interest that a procedure be established reserving capacity, with
priorities established as between those seeking such capacity.
§ 223-2. Automatic allocation of reservation.
   A.   Reservations of capacity by operation of law shall be as follows:
      (1)   Any property owner who has been assessed benefits under an
assessment of benefits procedure for the providing of sewer lines by his/her
property and for which measure an appropriating ordinance has been duly enacted
by the Town of Hammonton shall be entitled, without application being made for
a reservation of capacity or without payment of any of the fees set forth in §
223-8, to an automatic allocation of capacity to the extent equal to the number
of lots that can be constructed by said individual on the existing assessed
frontage, which number of lots shall be determined through dividing the
assessed frontage by the minimum frontage requirements for a building lot under
Chapter 175, Land Development.
      (2)   Where any individual has a lot that fronts on an existing sewer
line and is required to tie into said sewer line upon constructing a residence,
said individual shall be entitled to an allocation of capacity without applying
for reservation or paying any of the fees set forth in §
223-8 of this chapter.
   B.   Nothing in this chapter shall affect the obligation of any individual
to pay all charges required to hook up to the Hammonton sewer system.
§ 223-3. Application procedure.
   A.   Any individual may apply for reservation of capacity at any time after
one of the following three events occurs:
      (1)   The subdivision has been classified and approved as a minor
subdivision.
      (2)   The major subdivision has received preliminary subdivision approval
by the Hammonton Planning Board.
      (3)   The commercial or industrial facility has received final site plan
approval from the Hammonton Planning Board.
   B.   Applications shall be filed in triplicate with the Construction Office
of the Town of Hammonton and shall enumerate the block and lot number on the
Tax Map, the size of the tract, the total number of lots and/or residential
units and/or the location of each commercial or industrial unit for which site
plan approval has been obtained, including the square footage of each such
unit.
   C.   Applications shall be accompanied by the fee required for the first
year's reservation of capacity.
   D.   The original of each application shall be retained by the Construction
Official, with the second copy being forwarded to the Superintendent of the
Hammonton Sewer Treatment Plant for his/her records. The third copy shall be
forwarded to the Chairperson of the Sewer Committee of Town Council to be
retained for its records.
   E.   The Sewer Committee and the Sewer Superintendent shall satisfy
themselves that the capacity exists to handle the application and that there
are no other applications which, when considered in conjunction with this
application, would bring the total reservation of capacity outstanding, plus
all existing flow, above the amount of 1,200,000 gallons. Should the
reservation requested, in conjunction with all other outstanding reservations
of capacity theretofore granted, along with the existing use of the plant,
bring the total projected impact on the plant over 1,200,000 gallons, said
application and all subsequent applications received shall be processed
pursuant to §
223-4 of this chapter.
§ 223-4. Priority of allocating remaining capacity; hearing.
   A.   The Town of Hammonton is under mandate to have plans in place as to the
upgrading of its sewer plant at such time as 80% of the capacity of the plant
is in place. Once 1,200,000 gallons of the sewer plant's capacity is committed
to existing users, those with automatic allocations under §
223-2 of this chapter and those who have secured reservations of capacity under
the procedure set forth in §
223-3, the remaining capacity shall be allocated in accordance with the
following priorities, with the priorities being in the same order as set forth
hereafter:
      (1)   Single-family homes.
      (2)   Minor residential subdivisions.
      (3)   Commercial facilities which do not produce a high-density or high-
impact effluent and whose effluent is consistent with domestic sewage.
      (4)   Light industrial facilities whose use of sewage facilities is
limited to an effluent of equal or less strength than domestic sewage.
      (5)   Major residential subdivisions.
      (6)   All multifamily housing of all types and descriptions, including
but not limited to apartments, townhouses, condominiums, triplexes or any other
residential application providing for more than two residential family units on
any single lot.
      (7)   All commercial uses who produce an effluent of greater strength
than domestic sewage.
      (8)   All industries that produce a flow with effluent of a greater
strength than domestic sewage.
   B.   Upon the total applications for reservation of capacity, plus the
existing uses and the automatic allocations set forth in §
223-2, exceeding 1,200,000 gallons, said application shall be referred to the
special committee of Council consisting of the Sewer Committee, the Mayor and
the Sewer Superintendent, for the purpose of determining the category within
which the application falls and whether or not there is existing capacity for
that application. If it is determined by said committee that there is
insufficient capacity to accommodate the application at the time in question,
the applicant will be so notified and given an opportunity to come before the
committee at a duly constituted meeting, to be held not less than 30 nor more
than 60 days after said denial, at which time the applicant shall have the
opportunity to establish, by competent legal evidence, whether or not the
facility falls within the priority category under §
223-4 that it is assigned by the committee or that the flow is such as would
bring it within a higher priority than that allocated to him/her. The decision
of said committee shall be made within 15 days after the hearing and submitted
to the applicant in writing.
§ 223-5. Term of reservation; extensions.
[Amended 10-10-1988 by Ord. No. 20-1988]
   All reservations of capacity shall be for a one-year period. Any individual
shall have a right to request not more than three annual extensions of his/her
reservation capacity upon paying the fee required for each subsequent year. If
the facility in question is not constructed within four years from the
reservation of capacity, said individual's name shall be taken from the
reservation list and said individual shall have to reapply as a new applicant
for a reservation of capacity, and the application shall only be considered if
he/she has the appropriate valid and then outstanding approvals from the
Planning Board of the Town of Hammonton.
§ 223-6. Prerequisites to endorsement of applications for dry connections.
[Added 10-10-1988 by Ord. No. 20-1988]
   The Town of Hammonton shall not endorse any application to the Department of
Environmental Protection for the right to commence construction with dry
connections, and interim sewage facilities, provided that the construction is
completed before the sewer ban is lifted, unless the following prerequisites
occur:
   A.   The applicant has received preliminary approval for either a
subdivision or site plan for the applicant's project.
   B.   The application for endorsement of a request to the Department of
Environmental Protection for permission to start construction with dry
connections, and with interim sewage facilities, should construction be
completed before the sewer ban is lifted, shall not be considered by the Mayor
and Council unless the applicant requesting said endorsement has reserved sewer
capacity under this chapter.
   C.   No request for such an endorsement of an application to the Department
of Environmental Protection as set forth in Subsection B shall be considered
unless the applicant has paid all fees set forth in §
223-8 of this chapter for the current year and any prior years during which
sewer capacity has been reserved.
   D.   The interim sewage facilities referred to in Subsection B shall not
include any permission to install holding tanks where the application involves
a residential subdivision or an application for multifamily construction.
§ 223-7. Annual fee to maintain reservation.
[Added 10-10-1988 by Ord. No. 20-1988]
   Should any applicant reserve capacity and pay the fees under §
223-8 hereof and receive permission to commence construction with dry
connections and should said individual fail to pay the annual maintenance fee
as required by §
223-8E for any period between the time that capacity is reserved and that the
individual is able to hook up after the removal of the ban on hookups to the
Hammonton Sewer Treatment Plant, said individual shall not be permitted to hook
up to the sewer treatment plant until all fees covering the interim period from
the year when reservation of capacity first occurred and including that year in
which the right to hook up is requested. The Sewer Superintendent shall not
permit the hookups unless a certification is received from the Town Clerk/
Administrator evidencing the fact that all payments of the annual fees for
reservation of capacity under §
223-8 have been made.
§ 223-8. Fees.
   A.   No fee for allocation of capacity shall be required from any individual
qualifying under §
223-2A(1) and (2) of this chapter.
   B.   Every residential unit for which capacity is reserved shall be
responsible for payment upon filing of the application of a fee of $150 per
residential unit.
   C.   All light commercial and light industry applications shall be
responsible for paying a fee equal to .125 times the square footage of the
facility times 365, which fee shall be paid on an annual basis as long as the
capacity is reserved, commencing with the first application.
   D.   All commercial and/or industrial facilities providing an effluent
stronger than domestic sewage shall pay a fee each year for the reservation of
capacity equal to the computation of said applicant's estimated pretreated
strength and flow of its effluent, which amount shall be determined according
to the formulas set forth in
Chapter 226, Sewers, Article I, §
226-11.
   E.   Any applicant who requests either a one-year extension or two one-year
extensions of reservation of his/her capacity shall pay the same as paid with
the original application.
§ 223-9. Violations and penalties.
   Should any applicant, upon hooking up to the sewer plant, be determined to
have made a material misrepresentation on his or her application as to the type
of facility involved or the strength of the sewage effluent provided, said
individual shall be subject to one or more of the following: a fine of not more
than $1,000, imprisonment for a period not to exceed 90 days or a period of
community service not to exceed 90 days for every day that the strength of the
effluent is more than 110% of the strength estimated in the application filed
with the Construction Office with the projected fee for said reservation. Said
penalty may be imposed through a complaint brought by the Sewer Plant
Superintendent in the Hammonton Municipal Court, at which time the applicant
shall have the full right to be heard in accordance with his or her due process
rights.
§ 223-10. Notarized statement from industrial and commercial users.
   Any industrial or commercial user who wishes to reserve capacity must file a
notarized statement that its effluent will not provide heavy metals or toxic
organics into the Hammonton sewer system. Any misrepresentation under this
section shall be subject to the same penalties as hereinabove set forth.
CHAPTER 226.
SEWERS
[HISTORY: Adopted by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton as
indicated in article histories. Amendments noted where applicable. Editor's
Note: Ordinance No. 5-2006 adopted
Ch. 6, Art. VI, and provided for the elimination of the Municipal Utilities
Advisory Committee (MUAC). Per §
6-41, MUAC references, any references to the MUAC in this chapter shall be
construed as making reference to “Mayor and Council” or its water and sewer
subcommittee. ]
ARTICLE I.
Sewer Use and Rents
   
§ 226-1.   Definitions.
   
§ 226-2.   Sewer connection fees.
   
§ 226-3.   Connection fees in Southeast and Southwest Sewer Projects.
   
§ 226-4.   Liability for connection payment.
   
§ 226-5.   Approval and pretreatment of industrial waste discharges.
   
§ 226-6.   Prohibited discharges.
   
§ 226-7.   Notice of accidental prohibited discharge.
   
§ 226-8.   Analysis and metering of industrial wastes.
   
§ 226-9.   Domestic sewage; rents.
   
§ 226-10.   Commercial and industrial sewage; rents.
   
§ 226-11.   Surcharges for industrial wastes.
   
§ 226-12.   Enforcement; violations and penalties.
   
§ 226-13.   Payment of rents.
   
§ 226-14.   Commencement of rents.
   
§ 226-15.   Succession of powers.
   
§ 226-16.   Time limit for appeals and requests for refunds for bills and
assessment.
ARTICLE II.
Oil and Grease Interceptors
   
§ 226-17.   Prohibited discharges.
   
§ 226-18.   Interceptors required; exception.
   
§ 226-19.   Interceptors required in wastewater lines for certain
establishments.
   
§ 226-20.   Type and capacity.
   
§ 226-21.   Maintenance of interceptors.
   
§ 226-22.   Removal of collected material.
   
§ 226-23.   Replacement.
   
§ 226-24.   Compliance.
   
§ 226-25.   Enforcement.
   
§ 226-26.   Violations and penalties.
ARTICLE III.
Mandatory Connection Requirement
   
§ 226-27.   Purpose.
   
§ 226-28.   Connection requirement.
   
§ 226-29.   Notice of availability.
   
§ 226-30.   Connection time frame.
   
§ 226-31.   Violations and penalties.
GENERAL REFERENCES
   Water and sewer subcommittee — See
Ch. 6, Art. VI.
   Reservation for sewer capacity — See
Ch. 223.
   Sewage systems in trailer parks — See
Ch. 264.
   Water — See
Ch. 275.
Article I.
Sewer Use and Rents
[Adopted 9-13-1971 by Ord. No. 10-1971 as Art. I of Ch. 130 of the 1971 Code]
§ 226-1. Definitions.
   Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meanings of terms
used in this article shall be as follows:
   BOD (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND)
   The quantity of oxygen expressed in parts per million by weight, utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure
for five days at 20° C. The standard laboratory procedure shall be that found
in the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Sewage published by the American Public Health Association.
   DOMESTIC SEWAGE
   The normal water-carried household and toilet wastes from residences.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES
   Any solid, liquid or gaseous substance or form of energy rejected or
escaping from any industrial, manufacturing, trade or business process or from
the development, recovery or processing of natural resources, as distinct from
sanitary sewage.
   MAYOR AND COMMON COUNCIL
   The group of elected officials acting as the governing body of the Town of
Hammonton.
   PARTS PER MILLION (PPM)
   The ratio of parts by weight of material under consideration to 1,000,000
parts by weight of sewage.
   PERSON
   Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or group.
   PH
   The logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration expressed
in moles per liter and indicates the degree of acidity or alkalinity of a
substance.
   SANITARY SEWAGE
   The normal water-carried wastes from business buildings, institutions,
commercial and industrial establishments.
   SEWER SYSTEM
   All facilities for collecting, treating and disposing of sewage.
   SLUG
   Any discharge of water, sewage or waste exceeding a concentration or flow
greater than five times that of the average twenty-four-hour discharge from the
person, which is discharged continuously for a period longer than 15 minutes.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS
   Solids that either float on the surface of or are in suspension in water,
sewage or other liquids and which are removable by laboratory filtration.
   TOWN
   The Town of Hammonton.
   TOXIC SUBSTANCE
   Any poisonous substance.
§ 226-2. Sewer connection fees.
[Amended 11-26-1973 by Ord. No. 9-1973; 4-28-1980 by Ord. No. 11-1980; 3-23-
1987 by Ord. No. 7-1987]
   A.   Where there are no sewer connections already made to the curbline from
the sewer, there is hereby imposed on the property owner the following sewer
connection fees for each additional connection to the existing sewerage system
of the Town of Hammonton for such connections from the line of the sewer to the
inside of the curbline or proposed curbline made subsequent to the enactment of
this article.
      (1)   Four-inch connection: $500.
      (2)   Six-inch connection: $550.
      (3)   Eight-inch connection: $650.
   B.   Such charge shall be paid to the Collector of Sewer Rents at the time
application is made for the connection to the sewer system.
   C.   In addition to those charges, rates and fees set forth within this
article, there shall be charged a sewer hookup fee for each additional
connection to the existing sewer system of the Town of Hammonton made
subsequent to the enactment of this article.
   D.   Connection and lateral construction fees.
[Added 5-23-1994 by Ord. No. 14-1994]
      (1)   Purpose. The Mayor and Council of the Town of Hammonton has
received from the Municipal Utilities Advisory Committee a correspondence dated
March 10, 1994, outlining their recommendation for connection fees and lateral
construction fees for the Sewer Department. Editor's Note: The Sewer Department
was inactivated 1-24-2011 by Ord. No. 3-2011. See now
Ch. 53, Department of Public Utilities; Superintendent of Public Works. It is
the expressed purpose of this section to adopt the recommendations of the
Municipal Utility Advisory Committee and to amend
Chapter 226 of the Code of the Town of Hammonton to conform with the
recommendation.
      (2)   Connection fee.
         (a)   A property owner must pay to the Town of Hammonton a fee for
purposes of obtaining the right to have sewer service. Such fee shall be titled
"connection fee." The connection fee shall be paid for each domestic consumer
unit for each new and additional connection as defined herein and shall be
payable in advance to the Town of Hammonton Sewer Department in accordance with
the following unit schedule:
            [1]   Single-family homes: one domestic consumer unit.
            [2]   Rented rooms, each room available for rent: 1/4 domestic
consumer unit.
            [3]   Single-family with place of business, including professional
offices: 11/4 domestic consumer units.
            [4]   Hotel or apartment house (for each living unit): one domestic
consumer unit.
            [5]   Motel (for each living unit): 1/2 domestic consumer unit.
            [6]   Apartments (for each living unit): one domestic consumer
unit.
            [7]   Schools (for each 30 pupils and faculty): one domestic
consumer unit.
            [8]   Churches: one domestic consumer unit.
            [9]   Clubs, societies, service organizations (with bar and/or
restaurant facilities: one additional unit): one domestic consumer unit.
            [10]   Gymnasiums in schools, etc.: two domestic consumer units.
            [11]   Public buildings (for each five employees): one domestic
consumer unit.
            [12]   Service stations without car wash facilities: two domestic
consumer units.
            [13]   Service stations with car washing facilities: three domestic
consumer units.
            [14]   Diner, tavern or restaurant one to 50 seating capacity (each
additional 15 seating capacity or segment thereof): one domestic consumer unit.
            [15]   Soda fountain and/or luncheonette (for first 10 seating
capacity): one domestic consumer unit; for each additional 20 seats or segment
thereof: one domestic consumer unit.
            [16]   Laundromat or self-service laundry (for each washer over 12
pounds capacity): one domestic consumer unit; for each washer of not more than
12 pounds capacity: 1/2 domestic consumer unit.
            [17]   Supermarkets (for each five employees): one domestic
consumer unit.
            [18]   Drive-in restaurants (seating capacity under 10): three
domestic consumer units; seating capacity for additional 15 seats or fraction
thereof: one domestic consumer unit.
            [19]   Business establishment, not otherwise classified whether
part of dwelling or not (for each 15 employees or segment thereof):
            one domestic consumer unit.
            [20]   Industrial plant (for each five employees): one domestic
consumer unit.
            [21]   Amusement park: five domestic consumer units.
            [22]   Public recreational facilities: five domestic consumer
units.
            [23]   Bakery (with baking facilities, whether part of dwelling or
not): two domestic consumer units.
         (b)   The connection fee shall be $2,000 per domestic consumer unit.
      (3)   Lateral construction fee.
         (a)   Where there are no sewer connections already made to the
curbline from the sewer, there is hereby imposed on the property owner the
following lateral construction fee for each connection to the existing sewerage
system of the Town of Hammonton. This lateral construction fee shall be from
the line of the sewer to the inside of the curbline or proposed curbline. Fees
shall be as follows:
            [1]   Four-inch connection: $500.
            [2]   Six-inch connection: $750.
            [3]   Eight-inch connection: $800.
         (b)   The cost of the lateral construction fees specified above are
the minimum charges. The Sewer Department Editor's Note: The Sewer Department
was inactivated 1-24-2011 by Ord. No. 3-2011. See now
Ch. 53, Department of Public Utilities; Superintendent of Public Works.
reserves the right to increase these charges depending upon the actual cost of
material and labor.
      (4)   Payment of fees. All charges and fees set forth in this section
shall be paid to the Collector of Sewer Rents at the time application is made
for the connection to the sewer system.
§ 226-3. Connection fees in Southeast and Southwest Sewer Projects.
[Added 5-11-1998 by Ord. No. 20-1998]
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to supplement
Chapter 226, entitled Sewers, and address issues concerning connection fees for
residential uses affected by the extension of municipal sewer for the Southeast
and Southwest Projects and specifically the number of domestic consumer units
fees assessed to existing residential uses.
   B.   Definition. For the purpose of this section a residential use shall be
limited to existing single-family dwellings and those dwellings which may have
been modified by construction to include an apartment, efficiency apartment or
duplex use.
   C.   Applicable connection fee. Notwithstanding the existing schedule of
connection fees contained in §
226-2D, all residential uses existing and occupied within the Southeast and
Southwest Sanitary Sewer Extension Projects as of the date when the projects
commenced as defined by this article are and shall be considered assessed one
domestic consumer unit for the purpose of connection and hookup fees.
§ 226-4. Liability for connection payment.
[Added 4-28-1980 by Ord. No. 11-1980; amended 3-23-1987 by Ord. No. 7-1987]
   In the event that any person(s), including a corporation, requests and
obtains the necessary permits to connect to the then existing sewerage system
and fails to complete said connection and/or fails to become a user of said
system within a period of one year commencing upon the approval of said
connection, said person(s) shall thereafter become liable for the payment of
said connection, as set forth within this article.
§ 226-5. Approval and pretreatment of industrial waste discharges.
   A.   Treatment of industrial wastes. The economy and desirability of the
combined treatment of industrial wastes and sanitary sewage is recognized.
However, not all types or quantities of industrial wastes can be so treated.
Hence, it shall be the established policy of the Town of Hammonton to admit
those types and quantities of industrial wastes that are not harmful or
damaging to the structures, processes or operation of the sewage works or are
not specifically prohibited by this article. It is also recognized that to
provide this service, additional facilities are required, the cost of which
must be borne by those persons receiving its benefits.
   B.   Approval required for industrial wastes. In order to control the
admission of industrial wastes, the discharge into the public sewers of any
waters or wastes having a five-day twenty-degree-centigrade BOD greater than
300 parts per million; a suspended-solids content greater than 350 parts per
million; a chlorine demand greater than five parts per million; an average
daily flow greater than 2% of the average daily sewage flow at the sewage
treatment works; or any toxic substance shall be subject to the review and
approval of the Mayor and Common Council.
   C.   Pretreatment.
      (1)   Where required in the opinion of the Mayor and Common Council, the
owner shall provide at his/her expense such preliminary treatment or handling
as may be necessary to:
         (a)   Reduce BOD to 300 parts per million and suspended solids to 350
parts per million; or
         (b)   Modify the objectionable characteristics or constituents to come
within the maximum limits provided for in §
226-5B; or
         (c)   Control the quantities and rates of discharge of such waters or
wastes over a twenty-four-hour day and a seven-day week.
      (2)   Plans, specifications and any other pertinent information relating
to proposed preliminary treatment or handling facilities shall be submitted for
the approval of the Mayor and Common Council, and no construction of such
facilities shall be commenced until approval is obtained in writing.
   D.   No sewer user shall admit industrial wastes of any type defined in §
226-5B above without first securing the approval of the Mayor and Common
Council. Any pretreatment facilities required under §
226-5C must be completed within six months unless granted a further extension
by Mayor and Common Council as a result of undue hardship in constructing these
pretreatment facilities.
   E.   Approval required for significant industrial user (SIU). In addition to
the requirements as outlined in §
226-5B of the Hammonton Code, any new-source significant industrial user, as
defined by N.J.A.C. 7:14A-1 et seq., shall obtain a state NJPDESA/SIU permit.
This permit must be obtained prior to commencing discharge into the Hammonton
Waste Water Treatment Plant. This requirement is an additional condition for
approval under the aforementioned section.
[Added 9-14-1992 by Ord. No. 32-1992]
   F.   Federal standards. Whenever the county, state or federal government has
adopted standards and limitations on any particular industrial subcategory or
has set pretreatment standards applicable to a particular industrial
subcategory, which is more stringent than the limitations imposed by this
article, the standards and limitations shall be the applicable county, state or
federal government standards and limitations.
[Added 9-14-1992 by Ord. No. 32-1992]
§ 226-6. Prohibited discharges.
   A.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater,
surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, cooling water or
unpolluted industrial or commercial process water into any sanitary sewer.
   B.   Stormwater, surface drainage and unpolluted waters shall be admitted to
only such sewers as are specifically designated as storm sewers or storm
drains. Unpolluted process and cooling waters may, on written application and
approval by the Superintendent of Sewer Department, Editor's Note: The Sewer
Department was inactivated 1-24-2011 by Ord. No. 3-2011. See now
Ch. 53, Department of Public Utilities; Superintendent of Public Works. be
discharged to storm sewers or storm drains.
   C.   Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall discharge or cause to
be discharged any of the following described wastes or waters to any public
sewer:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 160° F.
      (2)   Any water or waste containing more than 100 parts per million by
weight of fats, oils or greases.
      (3)   Any liquids, solids or gases which by reason of their nature or
quality may cause fire or explosion or be in any other way injurious to
persons, to the sewage works' structures or to the operation of those works.
      (4)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance which, either singly or
by interaction with other wastes, is capable of creating a public nuisance or
hazard to life or preventing entry into sewers for their maintenance and
repair.
      (5)   Any garbage that has not been comminuted or shredded.
      (6)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass,
bones, feathers, tires, plastic, wood, paunch manure, butcher's offal or any
other solids or viscous substances capable of causing obstruction to the flow
in sewers or other interference with the proper operation of the sewerage
system or the sewage treatment works.
      (7)   Any water or waste having a pH lower than 5.5 or higher than 9.5 or
having any corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazards to
structures, equipment or personnel of the sewage works.
      (8)   Any water or waste containing any toxic substances in quantities
sufficient to interfere with the biochemical processes of the sewage treatment
works or that will pass through the sewage treatment works and exceed the state
or interstate requirements for the receiving stream.
      (9)   Any water or waste that contains cyanide in excess of a
concentration determined by multiplying 0.2 parts per million by the ratio of
the average flow in the receiving stream to the design flow of the sewage
treatment works.
      (10)   Any water or waste containing suspended solids of such character
and quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle such
materials at the sewage treatment plant.
      (11)   Any toxic radioactive isotopes, without special permit.
      (12)   Any water or waste that contains fluoride in excess of a
concentration determined by multiplying 0.2 parts per million by the ratio of
the average flow in the receiving stream to the design flow of the sewage
treatment works.
   D.   No statement contained in this article shall be construed as
prohibiting any special agreement or arrangement between the town and any
person whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
admitted into the sanitary sewers for treatment by the town either before or
after pretreatment.
§ 226-7. Notice of accidental prohibited discharge.
[Added 8-23-1976 by Ord. No. 16-1976]
   Any person or persons who shall discharge or cause to be discharged any
prohibited discharge as defined within §
226-6 of this article, Prohibited discharge, into any sanitary sewer of the
Town of Hammonton shall comply with the following requirements:
   A.   Any person, individual or corporation who shall claim that he, she or
it has accidentally discharged or caused to be discharged any prohibited
discharge as defined in §
226-6 into any sanitary sewer in the Town of Hammonton shall immediately notify
either the Town Engineer or the Sewer Superintendent of the Town of Hammonton
of said accidental discharge.
   B.   Should any individual fail to notify either the Town Engineer or the
Sewer Superintendent of the Town of Hammonton of a claim that there has been an
accidental prohibited discharge as defined in §
226-6 of this article into the sanitary sewer of the Town of Hammonton within
30 minutes after said person or his/her agents, servants or employees become
aware of said discharge, said individual shall be in violation of this article.
   C.   Any individual violating this section shall be liable to all of the
sanctions set forth in §
226-12A and B of this
Chapter 226 of the Code of the Town of Hammonton, which sanctions shall be
invoked at the discretion of the Sewer Superintendent. No action taken by the
Sewer Superintendent under §
226-12A of this article shall be a bar or defense to the bringing of criminal
sanctions under §
226-12B of this article.
§ 226-8. Analysis and metering of industrial wastes.
   A.   Survey data required.
      (1)   Within three months after the passage of this article, all users of
the sewage system who discharge industrial wastes to the public sewers shall
fill in and file with the Mayor and Common Council an industrial waste
questionnaire which shall furnish pertinent data, inclusive of quantity of flow
and an analysis of the water discharged to the sewage works.
      (2)   Similarly, any person desiring to make a new connection to the
sewage works for the purpose of discharging industrial wastes to the public
sewers shall fill in and file with the Mayor and Common Council an industrial
waste questionnaire which shall furnish pertinent or predicted data, inclusive
of quantity of flow and an analysis of the industrial waste to be discharged
into the sewage system.
   B.   Extension of time. Mayor and Common Council shall have the right, upon
showing of good cause, to grant an extension of time to comply with the
provisions of §
226-8A above.
   C.   Control manhole.
      (1)   Any person discharging industrial wastes into the sewerage system
shall construct and maintain a suitable control manhole or manholes downstream
from any treatment, storage or other approved works, to facilitate observation,
measurement and sampling of all wastes, including domestic sewerage, from the
person.
      (2)   The control manhole or manholes shall be constructed at suitable
and satisfactory locations and built in a manner approved by the Superintendent
of Sewage Treatment.
      (3)   The control manhole or manholes shall be equipped with permanent-
type volume-measuring devices of a type approved by the Superintendent of
Sewage Treatment. The manhole shall be installed by the person discharging the
waste, at his/her expense, and shall be maintained by him/her so as to be safe,
accessible and in proper operating condition at all times.
      (4)   Plants for the construction of the control manhole or manholes and
all included devices shall be approved by the Mayor and Common Council prior to
the beginning of construction.
   D.   Measurement of flow.
      (1)   The volume of flow used in computing surcharges shall be the
metered water consumption of the person as shown in the records of meter
readings maintained by the Hammonton Water Department. Editor's Note: The Water
Department was inactivated 1-24-2011 by Ord. No. 3-2011. See now
Ch. 53, Department of Public Utilities; Superintendent of Public Works.
      (2)   Where the person discharging wastes into the sewer works of the
town procures any part or all of his/her water supply from sources other than
the Hammonton Water Department, all or a part of which is discharged into the
sewerage system, the person discharging said waste shall install and maintain
at his/her expense sewer meters of a type approved by the Mayor and Common
Council for the purpose of determining the proper volume of flow to be used.
   E.   Sewage metering.
      (1)   All persons discharging industrial wastes into the sewage system of
the Town of Hammonton shall have the privilege at their sole discretion to
install sewage meters for the specific purpose of determining the volume of
industrial waste or sanitary sewage entering the sewerage system.
      (2)   These meters for determining the volume of flow of these sewers
shall be installed, owned and maintained by the property owners. Following the
installation of such meters and approval of the installation by the town, such
meters may not be removed without the approval of the Mayor and Common Council.
   F.   Sewage sampling.
      (1)   The industrial wastes of each person discharging the same into the
sewerage system shall be subject to periodic inspection and a determination of
the character and concentration of said wastes. These determinations shall be
made quarterly or as often as may be deemed necessary by the Mayor and Common
Council or their authorized assistants, and a report of the determinations
shall be submitted to the Mayor and the Common Council.
      (2)   The installation, operation and maintenance of the sewage-sampling
facilities shall be assumed by the person discharging the waste and shall be
subject at all times to the approval of the Mayor and Common Council. Access to
the sewage-sampling location or locations shall be available to the Mayor and
Common Council or their duly authorized representatives at all times. Due care
shall be exercised in the collection and preservation of all samples to ensure
the preservation of the samples in as nearly their natural state as possible.
This includes the refrigeration of all samples which will be analyzed by
biochemical methods.
   G.   Analysis. The laboratory methods used in the examination of all
industrial waste shall be those set forth in the latest edition of Standard
Methods for the Examination of Water and Sewage as published by the American
Public Health Association. However, alternate methods for the analysis of
industrial wastes may be used, subject to mutual agreement between the Mayor
and Common Council and the person.
§ 226-9. Domestic sewage; rents.
[Amended 11-26-1973 by Ord. No. 9-1973; 3-27-1978 by Ord. No. 8-1978; 12-19-
1983 by Ord. No. 14-1983; 7-23-1984 by Ord. No. 15-1984; 3-23-1987 by Ord. No.
6-1987; 2-22-1988 by Ord. No. 3-1988; 12-13-1993 by Ord. No. 28-1993; 12-19-
1994 by Ord. No. 35-1994; 5-20-1996 by Ord. No. 9-1996]
   A.   Annual sewer rates.
[Amended 5-24-1999 by Ord. No. 4-1999; 5-22-2000 by Ord. No. 13-2000; 5-21-2001
by Ord. No. 23-2001; 7-25-2005 by Ord. No. 29-2005; 5-14-2012 by Ord. No. 8-
2012; 3-23-2015 by Ord. No. 006-2015]
   (1)   To begin the billing cycle following adoption of Ord. No. 006-2015,
the sewer rents for collection and treatment of all domestic sewage discharged
into the Hammonton Wastewater Treatment Facility by all dwellings receiving
water from the Hammonton Public Utilities Department 6 shall be an annual
charge based on the water consumption of the six month period immediately
preceding the date of said water meter reading, which reading shall be made
during the month of May of each given year, and shall be computed in accordance
with the following rate schedule:
   Annual Residential Sewer Rate
 
Water Consumption (cubic feet) Fee
First 2,000 or less            $595.00 annually
From 2,001 to 4,000            $72.50 per 1,000 cubic feet
All usage in excess of 4,000   $37.50 per 1,000 cubic feet
 
      (2)   Should any sewer user having domestic or commercial sewage
collected or treated by the Sewer Department of the Town of Hammonton 7  having
sources of water supply not provided by the Hammonton Public Utilities
Department or not having a meter that is acceptable to the Town and in good
working order at the time said meter is read or is to be read, then that sewer
domestic user shall be charged a flat rate of $695 and that sewer commercial
user shall be charged a rate of $830 for the collection of his or her sewer for
that particular year. These rates shall become effective the billing cycle
following adoption of Ord. No. 006-2015.
   B.   In case of a combination of two or more dwelling units, households,
flats, apartments or two or more families using separate cooking and bathroom
facilities in one dwelling having the use of the sewer system through one sewer
lateral, each and every such occupied dwelling unit, household, flat, apartment
of such family shall be charged the foregoing minimum annual sewer rents or
charges (as set forth in paragraph 1 above) the same as if each such unit or
family had a direct and separate connection to the sewer system. Sewer rents
and charges in excess of such minimum shall be determined by dividing the total
water consumed, as shown by the water readings, by the number of occupied units
or families using such single sewer connection, and applying the above rate
schedule to the quantity as determined.
   C.   Beginning January 1, 1996, all persons legally and medically declared
totally disabled pursuant to the laws of the State of New Jersey, and all
persons who now qualify and who may hereafter qualify for the real estate
annual senior citizens' tax deduction of $250 pursuant to the Laws of the State
of New Jersey and who qualify and receive said tax deduction will be entitled,
upon application therefor, to an annual credit of $50 on their annual domestic
sewer rental. This credit shall only extend to one property owned by any such
citizen in the Town of Hammonton. Where premises are owned by more than one
such citizen, only one annual credit shall be allowed by the provision of this
article.
   D.   Any owner required to be connected to the sewage facilities of the Town
of Hammonton pursuant to §
226-28, that fails to connect to such facilities within the time frame set
forth in §
226-30, shall be charged annual sewer rates in accordance with §
226-9(A-C) above. It is determined to be in the public interest that all owners
required to connect to the sewage facilities of the Town of Hammonton
contribute towards the cost of maintaining and operating such sewage
facilities.
[Adopted 5-16-2016 by Ord. No. 008-2016]
 
Notes
  6.   Editor's Note: The Water Department was inactivated 1-24-2011 by Ord. No. 3-
6 2011. See now Ch. 53, Department of Public Utilities; Superintendent of Public
  Works.
  7.   Editor's Note: The Sewer Department was inactivated 1-24-2011 by Ord. No. 3-
7 2011. See now Ch. 53, Department of Public Utilities; Superintendent of Public
  Works.
§ 226-10. Commercial and industrial sewage; rents.
   To begin the billing cycle following adoption of Ord. No. 006-2015, the
sewer rents for collection and treatment of sanitary sewage discharged into the
Hammonton Wastewater Treatment Facility by all business buildings, institutions
and commercial establishments receiving water from the Hammonton Public
Utilities Department  1  shall be a semiannual charge based on the water
consumption of each six-month period and computed in accordance with the
following rate schedule:
[Amended 11-26-1973 by Ord. No. 9-1973; 3-27-1978 by Ord. No. 8-1978; 12-19-
1983 by Ord. No. 14-1983; 7-23-1984 by Ord. No. 15-1984; 3-23-1987 by Ord. No.
6-1987; 2-22-1988 by Ord. No. 3-1988; 12-13-1993 by Ord. No. 28-1993; 12-19-
1994 by Ord. No. 35-1994; 5-20-1996 by Ord. No. 9-1996; 5-24-1999 by Ord. No.
4-1999; 5-14-2012 by Ord. No. 8-2012; 3-23-2015 by Ord. No. 006-2015]
   Semi-Annual Commercial Sewer Rate
 
Water Consumption (cubic feet) Fee
First 2,000 or less            $390.00
From 2,001 to 4,000            $47.50 per 1,000 cubic feet
All usage in excess of 4,000   $37.50 per 1,000 cubic feet
 
   B.   In cases where a combination of one or more dwelling units, households,
flats, apartments with stores, shops, offices or businesses or industrial units
has the use of the sewer system through one sewer lateral, each and every
occupied dwelling unit, household, flat, apartment, store, shop, office or
business or industrial unit shall be charged the foregoing minimum semiannual
sewer rents or charges, the same as if each such unit had a direct and separate
connection to the sewer system. However, any provision of this article
notwithstanding, no person shall be charged for a business or office unit which
is a part of his/her residence and which does not have separate sewerage
facilities within said unit unless the sewerage facilities of the residence
would reasonably be considered to be available to customers of the business or
office unit in light of the type of business activity conducted therein or
unless the business or office unit is operated by someone other than a
permanent resident of the residence attached thereto. Sewer rents or charges in
excess of such minimum shall be determined by dividing the total water
consumed, as shown by the meter readings, by the number of occupied units.
   C.   All hospitals open to the general public of the Town of Hammonton which
have a maximum of 82 beds shall pay a sewer rent of $875 per year.
[Amended 11-26-1973 by Ord. No. 9-1973]
   D.   Any owner required to be connected to the sewage facilities of the Town
of Hammonton pursuant to §
226-28, that fails to connect to such facilities within the time frame set
forth in §
226-30, shall be charged annual sewer rates in accordance with §
226-10(A-C) above. It is determined to be in the public interest that all
owners required to connect to the sewage facilities of the Town of Hammonton
contribute towards the cost of maintaining and operating such sewage
facilities.
[Added 7-25-2016 by Ord. No. 014-2016]
 
Notes
  8.   Editor's Note: The Public Utilities Department was inactivated 1-24-2011 by
1 Ord. No. 3-2011. See now Ch. 53, Department of Public Utilities; Superintendent
  of Public Works.
§ 226-11. Surcharges for industrial wastes.
   A.   Beginning January 1, 1966, the sewer rent for collection and treatment
of industrial wastes discharged into the sewer system by industrial users shall
be based upon a premium charge for extra-strength waste applied as a factor
against the charges for sanitary sewage computed in accordance with §
226-10A. The premium charge shall be based on the following formula for
determination of the multiplication factor:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2659.jpg]
 
 
 *Where these figures are less than 300 ppm in BOD or 350 ppm in suspended
 solids or five ppm in chlorine demand, the value in the parentheses () shall
 be equal to one.
 **In cases where the suspended solids, in the opinion of the Mayor and Common
 Council, do not represent the true characteristics of the solids loading, the
 Mayor and Common Council reserves the right to use total solids instead of
 suspended solids.
 
   B.   In cases where industrial users using the sewer system use water
supplied from any source and the water so supplied is not entirely discharged
into the sewer system, the measured flow to be used as a basis for the
computation of the sewer rent shall be determined as set forth in §
226-8D and E.
§ 226-12. Enforcement; violations and penalties.
   A.   Right to order violator to disconnect.
      (1)   The Sewer Superintendent shall have the right to serve any sewer
user with a complaint and notice to appear before the Mayor and Common Council
to show cause why he/she should not be ordered to disconnect from the sewer
system for violations of this article. Said complaint shall specify the
particular violations of this article with which the sewer user is charged.
Said notice shall provide for a hearing to be held before the Mayor and Common
Council in not less than 10 days nor more than 30 days from the date of the
serving of said complaint and notice.
      (2)   After hearing the charges contained within said complaint and after
having given the sewer user the right to be heard, the Mayor and Common Council
shall have the right, if it finds the sewer user to be guilty of any violations
as charged, to order the sewer user to comply with the provisions of this
article which he/she has been guilty of violating, within 30 days of the date
of said finding of guilt. The Mayor and Common Council shall have the further
right to order the sewer user to disconnect from the sewer system at the end of
said thirty-day period if the sewer user has failed to comply with the order of
the Mayor and Common Council.
      (3)   The Mayor and Common Council shall have the further right to extend
the thirty-day period for such additional period of time as it deems
appropriate, upon a showing by the sewer user that said thirty-day period
imposes undue hardship.
   B.   Criminal sanctions.
      (1)   Any person or persons who shall admit into the public sewers any
industrial waste, as defined and set forth in §
226-8B of this article, without securing the prior approval of the Mayor and
Common Council of the Town of Hammonton or any waste prohibited under §
226-9 of this article shall be subject to prosecution in the Municipal Court of
the Town of Hammonton for the violation of this section of this article and
shall, upon being convicted of such violation, be subject to one or more of the
following: a fine of not more than $1,000, imprisonment for a period not to
exceed 90 days or a period of community service not to exceed 90 days. Each day
that said person or persons shall continue said violation shall be a separate
violation.
      (2)   Any person who shall tamper with any meter or other device related
to the determination of sewer rentals shall be considered a disorderly person
and shall be subject, upon conviction of such offense, to the penalties
provided in Subsection A above.
   C.   Interpretation of enforcement provisions. The imposition of the
sanctions set forth by §
226-12A shall be independent of the involving of the punitive provisions of §
226-12B, and the prosecution of the violation under either §
226-12A or B shall not be a bar or defense to the imposition of a second
prosecution under the other appropriate subsection.
§ 226-13. Payment of rents.
   All sewer rents shall be due and payable at the same time and in the same
manner and shall draw the same interest from the time they become due as taxes
upon real estate and shall be a lien upon the premises connected until paid,
and the Town of Hammonton shall have the same remedies for the collection
thereof, with interest, costs and penalties, as it has by law for collection of
taxes upon real estate.
§ 226-14. Commencement of rents.
   Every person or persons, corporation or corporations who shall hereafter
make connection to said system of sewers shall be charged for that portion of
the calendar year remaining, including full charge for the month in which the
connection is made.
§ 226-15. Succession of powers.
   Should an authority, commission or other autonomous entity be established to
operate and manage said sewer system of the Town of Hammonton, said entity so
created shall succeed to all the powers of the Mayor and Common Council as set
forth under this article.
§ 226-16. Time limit for appeals and requests for refunds for bills and
assessment.
[Added 10-26-1998 by Ord. No. 28-1998]
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of this article is to establish a time limit for
appeals and requests for refunds for municipal water and sewer bills and
assessments.
   B.   Definition. For the purpose of this article a municipal water and sewer
bill or assessment shall include but not be limited to connection fees, hookup
fees, user fees, minimum and excess water and sewer readings upon which bills
are calculated.
   C.   Applicability. The limitations outlined herein shall be applicable to
all persons, organizations, partnerships, corporations, or any legal entity
which is owner of record or recipient of the municipal sewer or water bills or
assessments.
   D.   Time for appeals and requests for refund. Appeals and requests for
refund from municipal water and sewer bills and assessments shall be taken
within 180 days from the date when the bill or assessment first becomes due.
Any appeal or request for refund filed after the one-hundred-eighty-day time
for appeal shall be time barred.
   E.   Filing of appeal (place and manner). An appeal or request for refund
shall be considered timely made pursuant to this article when a written request
for appeal or refund is made and filed with the Clerk/Administrator's office of
the Town of Hammonton for Mayor and Council consideration within the time
period of 180 days.
Article II.
Oil and Grease Interceptors
[Adopted 6-22-1992 by Ord. No. 22-1992]
§ 226-17. Prohibited discharges.
   Nonbiodegradable oil and grease of a mineral or hydrocarbon origin and any
other nonbiodegradable substance shall not be discharged to the sewer system.
§ 226-18. Interceptors required; exception.
   Oil and grease interceptors shall be installed when, to conform to N.J.A.C.
5:23-3.3, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid waste containing
floatable biodegradable oil and/or grease in excessive amounts, except that
such interceptors shall not be required for private dwelling units and in
accordance with the provisions of the Plumbing Subcode.
§ 226-19. Interceptors required in wastewater lines for certain establishments.
   Effective immediately, oil and grease interceptors, also known as "grease
traps," shall be installed in wastewater lines leading from all drains handling
oil and greasy waste, in all new and existing eating, drinking and food
preparation establishments, including but not limited to those listed below, to
intercept, separate and accumulate excessive amounts of oil and grease for
proper removal:
   A.   Restaurants and cafeterias.
   B.   Hotel/motel kitchens and full-service bars.
   C.   Factory cafeterias or restaurants.
   D.   Tavern kitchens.
   E.   Office and commercial building cafeterias.
   F.   Fast-food restaurants.
   G.   Hospital kitchens and cafeterias.
   H.   Private club restaurants and cafeterias.
   I.   Camp restaurants, cafeterias or kitchens.
   J.   School cafeterias.
   K.   Bakery kitchens.
   L.   Meat and seafood preparation stores.
   M.   Gas stations or service stations.
§ 226-20. Type and capacity.
   All interceptors shall be of a type or capacity as approved by the Plumbing
Subcode Official, including but not limited to Article VI of the National
Standard Plumbing Code, and shall be located outside so as to be readily and
easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. The minimum size tank shall be
750 gallons.
§ 226-21. Maintenance of interceptors.
   All installed interceptors shall be properly maintained by the owner of the
property where the interceptor is installed. The owner shall maintain records
of the dates and manner of disposal, and said records shall be available for
review by the Plumbing Subcode Official or other approved official upon
request. The owner is required to file quarterly reports showing the date and
manner of disposal and the dates of inspection and maintenance. The reports
must be filed in the Construction Official's office at the Town Hall.
§ 226-22. Removal of collected material.
   The owner of the property where the interceptor is installed is responsible
for the proper removal and disposal by appropriate means of all collected
material. Any removal and hauling of the collected materials shall be performed
by currently licensed waste disposal firms.
§ 226-23. Replacement.
   Any replacement of an existing interceptor shall be as required by the
Plumbing Subcode Official in accordance with the provisions of this article and
the applicable provisions of the National Standard Plumbing Code and/or the
Uniform Construction Code.
§ 226-24. Compliance.
   A.   All establishments required to do so by virtue of this article shall
comply with the provisions of this article prior to any new sewer connection
being made or prior to continued use of the existing connection. No certificate
of occupancy shall issue if compliance is withheld.
   B.   Existing users not in compliance shall come into compliance within 180
days from the effective date hereof. All new installation of interceptors shall
conform to existing law.
   C.   Existing establishments presently possessing operating oil and grease
interceptors shall have such installations inspected for adequacy, capacity and
location by the Plumbing Subcode Official or his/her designee.
§ 226-25. Enforcement.
   The provisions of this article shall be enforced by the Hammonton Code
Enforcement Official or his/her designee.
§ 226-26. Violations and penalties.
   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this article or fail
to comply therewith or who shall violate or fail to comply with any order or
regulation made by this article and any person who may be employed or assist in
the commission of any such violation or violations shall, upon conviction, be
subject to one or more of the following: a fine of not more than $1,000,
imprisonment for a period not to exceed 90 days or a period of community
service not to exceed 90 days, and each day during which such violation or
violations shall continue or is allowed to exist shall constitute separate and
distinct offenses.
Article III.
Mandatory Connection Requirement
[Adopted 9-12-1994 by Ord. No. 25-1994]
§ 226-27. Purpose.
   It is deemed necessary and in the public interest to promote the protection
and maintenance of the public health and welfare. To accomplish this purpose,
owners of certain properties along the lines of sewer mains that exist or may
be constructed by the Town of Hammonton shall be required to connect their
houses or other buildings thereon to the sewer mains.
§ 226-28. Connection requirement.
   A.   The owner of every existing house, building or structure and the owner
of every house, building or structure hereafter to be constructed or acquired,
which may be occupied or used by human beings, located on a street along the
line of a sewer created pursuant to the provisions of the Municipal and County
Utilities Authorities Law, P.L. 1957, Chapter 183, as amended and supplemented,
or Title 40, Chapter 14B, of the Revised Statutes of New Jersey, now or
hereafter constructed or acquired in the Town of Hammonton, where such house,
building or structure is located not more than 200 feet from said sewer line.
The owner of any structure on a lot which boundary line is located at some
point no more than 200 feet from said sewer line must within one year after the
date on which the service of such sewer is made available to such house,
building or structure, is required to connect and hook up the sewerage
facilities emanating from such house, building or structure to such sewerage
systems.
[Amended 6-9-1997 by Ord. No. 9-1997]
   B.   The owner of any structure on a lot the boundary line of which is
located at any point no more than 200 feet from said sewer line may appeal the
mandatory connection or hookup requirements of this article directly to the
Municipal Utilities Advisory Committee, which in turn will conduct a hearing on
the issue as expeditiously as practicable and report its recommendations to the
Mayor and Council of the Town of Hammonton. The Mayor and Council of the Town
of Hammonton shall without any further hearing:
      (1)   Adopt the recommendation; or
      (2)   Decline to adopt said recommendation; or
      (3)   Remand the matter to the MUAC for additional fact findings and/or
hearings; or
      (4)   Take such other action they may deem proper under the
circumstances.
   C.   Nothing herein is intended to limit or restrict any other relief
afforded a petitioner by ordinance or Statute.
   D.   If any such house, building or structure referred to in Subsections A,
B and C above shall be used for industrial or commercial purposes, the owner
thereof shall, within 30 days after the date on which the services of such
sewer are made available to such house or structure or prior to the occupancy
or use of such house, building or structure, whichever date shall be later,
install such facilities as are necessary to accept and dispose of industrial
wastes emanating there from and connect such facilities with such sewerage
systems, under and pursuant to the review and recommendation of the counseling
engineer of the Town of Hammonton.
§ 226-29. Notice of availability.
   A.   Notice of the availability of sewer service shall be given by the Town
Clerk/Administrator or the Town Clerk/Administrator's designated representative
after the his/her office receives a certification, in writing, from the
consulting engineer of a list or sites of such properties within the Town of
Hammonton as may be compelled to comply with the provisions of this article.
   B.   Notice shall be served upon the owners of said properties personally or
by leaving the same at the usual place of abode with a member of the family
over the age of 18 years or, if such mode of service cannot be effected, then
by mailing a copy of said notice to said owner or owners, by certified mail,
addressed to him/her at said property or properties or at his/her usual place
of abode.
§ 226-30. Connection time frame.
[Amended 3-25-2002 by Ord. No. 13-2002]
   A.   Any owner required to connect to the sewer system shall be given one
year from the date of receiving notice, pursuant to this Article III, to
connect to the sewer system.
   B.   Any owner required to connect to the sewer system who has installed a
subsurface waste water disposal system 24 months prior to receiving notice of
availability shall be given three years from the date of receiving notice of
availability, providing the connection fee is paid within one year of receiving
notice.
§ 226-31. Violations and penalties.
[Amended 5-16-2016 by Ord. No. 008-2016]
   A.   Any person, association, partnership, company or corporation who or
which shall violate this article shall be subject to one or more of the
following: a fine of not more than $1,000, imprisonment for a period not to
exceed 90 days or a period of community service not to exceed 90 days for every
day that the mandatory connection is not made after the person, association,
partnership, company or corporation receives the appropriate notice, issued in
accordance with the provisions of this article, setting forth the date that the
connection must be made.
   B.   In addition to the penalties set forth in §
226-31(A) above, any owner required to be connected to the sewage facilities of
the Town of Hammonton pursuant to §
226-28, that fails to connect to such facilities within the time frame set
forth in § 226-30, shall be provided written notice in accordance with §
226-29(B) identifying the property required to be connected, describing the
required connection and stating that, unless connection shall be completed
within 30 days of service of notice, the Town of Hammonton shall proceed to
make the connection or cause it to be made. Upon the failure of the owner to
make this required connection within the 30 day period, the Town of Hammonton
shall make the connection or cause it to be made and shall send an itemized
bill/invoice for the cost of the connection to the property owner. This bill/
invoice shall be payable within 30 days of the town sending the owner the bill/
invoice. If the owner fails to pay the bill/invoice within 30 days of the town
sending the owner the bill/invoice, then such amount, together with an
administrative fee of $500 to address the town's administrative expenses, shall
be a lien against the property and recorded and collected as provided by the
statutes of the State of New Jersey.
CHAPTER 228.
(RESERVED)
[Former Ch. 228, Sex Offender Residency, adopted 9-26-2005 by Ord. No. 37-2005,
was repealed 6-22-2009 by Ord. No. 13-2009.]
CHAPTER 230.
SLUDGE MANAGEMENT
[HISTORY: Adopted by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton 9-
22-1997 by Ord. No. 19-1997; amended in its entirety 2-25-1998 by Ord. No. 12-
1998. Subsequent amendments noted where applicable.]
   
§ 230-1.   Intent.
   
§ 230-2.   Definitions.
   
§ 230-3.   Applicability.
   
§ 230-4.   Spreading procedures.
   
§ 230-5.   Sludge management plan required.
   
§ 230-6.   Application for approval of sludge management plan.
   
§ 230-7.   Plan review and approval.
   
§ 230-8.   Inspections.
   
§ 230-9.   Fees and escrow deposits.
   
§ 230-10.   Violations and penalties.
   
§ 230-11.   Enforcement.
§ 230-1. Intent.
   A.   It is the intent of this chapter to regulate the application,
distribution and use of sludge and sludge-derived materials for the protection
of persons and property and for the preservation of public health, safety and
welfare of the Town of Hammonton and its inhabitants, and to ensure that the
use of sludge and sludge-derived products are utilized within the Town of
Hammonton in such a manner as to prevent the disruption of the quiet enjoyment
of the landowner in the town.
   B.   Any landowner, farmer, contractor, individual or corporation who wishes
to apply sludge or sludge-derived products to any lands, including but not
limited to farms, roads, and surfaces of dirt, sand or gravel, within the Town
of Hammonton shall be regulated by this chapter.
§ 230-2. Definitions.
   As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
indicated:
   APPLICANT
   Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind that requests permission to apply sludge or sludge-
derived materials to any land or for any purpose in the Town of Hammonton.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PLAN
   All or any methods used for the cultivation of land, growing crops or
animals which have been determined to be the best practicable method to be used
for the practice in question, as recommended by the Rutgers Cooperative
Extension of Atlantic County or the Natural Resources Conservation Service.
   CMP
   The Comprehensive Management Plan and amendments adopted by the Pinelands
Commission pursuant to Section 7 of the Pinelands Protection Act, to be cited
as N.J.A.C. 7:50-1 et seq.
   CONSERVATION PLAN
   A written plan that outlines and details those conservation practices that
will be incorporated and utilized to protect to the maximum extent practicable
all the natural resources on the land in question, in accordance with the
requirements of the Pinelands CMP, the Natural Resource Conservation Service,
the Cape Atlantic Soil Conservation District and the Town Council of the Town
of Hammonton or the Town Council's designees.
   FIELD
   A parcel of open ground suitable for pasturage or tillage which is an active
agricultural operation, located outside the Preservation Area Zone, in common
ownership and usually surrounded on one to four sides by a hedgerow, stone
wall, farm road or other demarcation separating it from like areas.
   LAND APPLICATION
   The controlled discharge of materials onto or into the soil surface or any
other surface in such a manner that the materials are treated by, become
incorporated into or are blended with the soil or other surface upon which they
are placed in conformance with N.J.A.C. 7:50-6.79(b).
   PH
   A measure of the relative acidity of a soil for the purpose of growing
crops.
   REPRESENTATIVE SAMPLE
   A sample that stands for and fairly corresponds to the whole and taken in
accordance with recognized sampling procedures as accepted by the USEPA and the
NJDEP.
   SOIL TEST
   A scientific analysis of the soil to determine the amounts of nutrients
which are available for use by the various crops which could be grown in the
soil in question.
   SLUDGE
   Solid residue and associated liquid resulting from physical, chemical or
biological treatment of wastewater. Sludge includes but is not limited to sewer
sludge and nonhazardous industrial/commercial wastewater sludge.
   SLUDGE-DERIVED MATERIAL
   Any solid or liquid material which contains sludge or sludge materials in
any amount whatsoever, as an additive or bulking agent or for any other
purpose. Sludge-derived materials may be, but are not limited to, sludge added
to lime, liming agents or comonts or kiln dusts, sludge added to wood chips,
sludge added to leaf compost or any composted materials or any soil materials
or sludge added to any other product in any amount. These products must meet
the requirements of "Process to Further Pathogens" as defined in 40 CFR 57 and
Part 4-1 of the statewide Management Plan.
§ 230-3. Applicability.
   Use of sludge or sludge-derived products in quantities less than 25 pounds
is not regulated by the Town of Hammonton; however, nothing in this chapter
shall be construed as relieving an applicant of complying with the Pinelands
application requirements and development standards set forth in Chapter 175,
Land Development, of the Code of the Town of Hammonton and in N.J.A.C. 7:50-
4 and 5.
§ 230-4. Spreading procedures.
   Sludge and sludge-derived material must:
   A.   Be thoroughly incorporated into the soil within 12 hours of delivery
for land application.
   B.   Not be applied between November 15 and April 1, nor to ground that is
frozen, covered with ice or snow, during or immediately after precipitation,
where water is ponding and/or is ponded on the surface, or in areas that
experience seasonal flooding.
   C.   Not be applied to fields of greater than six-percent slope, unless
applicant can provide satisfactory erosion protection.
   D.   Materials are not allowed to go septic if held in storage.
   E.   Due to objectionable odors, materials must be applied below the surface
of the lands and not be allowed to be surfacly applied.
   F.   Due to the sensitive nature of regional agricultural activities no
detectable levels of fecal coliform can be deposited into the town's
groundwater.
   G.   Be applied in a manner which creates no odor, without detection
instruments, outside the property line of each field on which the material is
being applied for longer than one twelve-hour period and creates no odor which
would unreasonably interfere with the enjoyment of life or property in the Town
of Hammonton.
   H.   Not be stockpiled or spread within 50 feet of property lines except
where property lines are part of the user's site.
   I.   Be spread only on sites on which a crop will be planted within 30
calendar days following the termination of the spreading.
   J.   Being applied to a parcel which is the site of an active agricultural
operation.
   K.   Be applied to benefit the agricultural operation.
   L.   Be applied according to the agronomic rate of application for its
intended purpose.
   M.   Be applied to a parcel which is located outside the Preservation Area
Zone.
   N.   Be applied in such a manner so as to ensure that no treatment or
processing occurs at the site of land application except as necessary to meet
the pathogen- or vector-attraction reduction requirements imposed by the
Department of Environmental Protection.
§ 230-5. Sludge management plan required.
   Effective September 1, 1997, it shall be a violation of this chapter for any
person to apply sludge or sludge-derived materials to land within the Town of
Hammonton without first having an approved sludge management plan in accordance
with the requirements of this chapter. The application of these substances
without an approved plan in place shall subject the landowner, and the lessee
if not the landowner, to fines and penalties set forth in this chapter.
§ 230-6. Application for approval of sludge management plan.
   A.   Applications for approval to spread sludge and sludge-derived materials
on lands within the Town of Hammonton shall be submitted to the Town Clerk/
Administrator, or another person or organization designated by the Town of
Hammonton Town Council, 30 calendar days prior to the proposed first date of
land application. The necessary application forms will be supplied to the
applicant by the Town Clerk/Administrator. At least 10 calendar days prior to
the application date, the landowner or applicant shall give to the Town Clerk/
Administrator notice of the spreading event and all property owners within 200
feet shall also be notified. A certified list of names shall be available
through the Tax Assessor's office. Failure of the landowner or applicant to
provide such notice shall result in revocation of the permit and a fine
pursuant to §
230-10 of this chapter.
   B.   An individual application shall be filed for each individual farm under
separate or partly separate ownership and for each use of the sludge-derived
material.
   C.   At minimum, the following information shall be provided:
      (1)   Name, address and telephone number of person applying for approval
to apply the sludge or sludge-derived product.
      (2)   Block and lot number, street address and approximate number of
acres of the land on which the sludge materials are to be applied, and a
notarized form from the landowner granting permission to apply the sludge
material to the land. Notice must be given to all property owners within 200
feet within 10 calendar days of spreading.
      (3)   Name, address and telephone number of the owner of the land on
which the sludge materials are to be applied, and a notarized form from the
landowner granting permission to apply the sludge material to the land.
      (4)   The name, address and telephone number of the person who is to
actually apply the sludge material to the land and a signed statement by that
person indicating that he or she shall apply the material in accordance with
the requirements of this chapter.
      (5)   A survey, plat, aerial photograph or map showing all streams,
springs, wetlands, open waters, sink holes or their areas where sludge
materials should not be applied and the buffers given to each area.
      (6)   If the sludge is being used as a fertilizer, liming agent or soil
enhancement, a soil analysis taken within the last 90 days on each field upon
which the applicant seeks approval to spread the sludge materials.
      (7)   A statement indicating that the sludge or sludge-derived material
would be applied at a rate based on soil test results and nutrient requirements
of the crop to be produced as recommended by Rutgers Cooperative Extension of
Atlantic County.
      (8)   An accurate analysis of a representative sample of the sludge-
derived material the applicant is seeking to apply to land in the Town of
Hammonton showing the existing levels of nitrogen, potassium, phosphorus, lead,
mercury, cadmium, moisture content and any other substances requested by the
Town of Hammonton Council, or the Council's designees, including but not
limited to arsenic, chromium, copper, molybdenum, nickel, selenium, thallium,
zinc, as well as dioxin and pathogens. The precision and sensitivity of the
analysis for each substance or element tested will be defined in the
conservation plan as required by this chapter.
      (9)   A written plan that shows how the sludge materials will be applied,
which includes at a minimum all the restrictions described in this chapter
limiting the application of all sludge-derived materials.
      (10)   A conservation plan prepared in accordance with the requirements
of the United States Natural Resource Conservation Service that indicates those
best management practices that will be utilized to assure that the sludge and
sludge-derived materials will be, to the maximum extent possible, prevented
from creating any off-site pollution or nuisance problems.
      (11)   A Certification of Filing from the Pinelands Commission issued
pursuant to N.J.A.C. 7:50-4.34.
§ 230-7. Plan review and approval.
   All applications shall be reviewed by the Town Council, or the Council's
designee, for completeness. No application shall be deemed complete without
receipt of Certificate of Filing from the Pinelands Commission pursuant to
N.J.A.C. 7:50-4.34. If it is determined that the plan and accompanying
documentation and plans meet the minimum acceptable criteria, a written
approval shall be issued to the applicant in a form approved by the Town
Council or the Council's designee within 30 days of submission of a completed
application. Any such approval shall be subject to the Pinelands notice, review
and decision requirements set forth in §
175-60 of Chapter 175, Land Development, of the Code of the Town of Hammonton.
§ 230-8. Inspections.
   The Council's designee shall be present and act as inspector during the
application of sludge-derived material. The inspector shall monitor the amount
of material being applied and shall keep a log of all deliveries of the sludge-
derived material to the site, which will include the name of the person making
the delivery, the weight of materials in the delivery, the analysis of a
representative sample of the materials to be applied to the land as provided by
the producer of the sludge-derived material, the amount of materials applied on
each approved field and such other information as the Town Council or the
Council's designee may request from time to time at the site, and before the
sludge-derived material is applied to the land, the inspector may, at his or
her discretion, have individual truckloads of the sludge-derived materials
sampled and later tested for various elements and substances.
§ 230-9. Fees and escrow deposits.
   A.   Each application shall be accompanied by a nonrefundable application
fee of $100 and an escrow deposit of $500, in accordance with procedures
established by the Town Council.
   B.   The applicant is responsible for all costs associated with the review
of each application, which costs will be taken from the escrow account. Such
costs may include but are not limited to engineers, consultants or other
persons necessary, in the opinion of the Town Council or the Council's
designee, for the approval of the application. The applicant is responsible for
all expenses incurred in connection with the on-site inspection as the sludge-
derived material is applied to the land.
§ 230-10. Violations and penalties.
   A.   The spreading of any amount of regulated sludge or sludge-derived
products without written approval in accordance with the procedures outlined in
this chapter is a violation of this chapter.
   B.   Any person, firm or corporation who or which violates, omits, neglects
or refuses to comply with this chapter shall immediately and without notice be
subject to one or more of the following: a fine of not more than $1,000,
imprisonment for a period not to exceed 90 days or a period of community
service not to exceed 90 days per 100 acre plot, or less, in violation in
Municipal Court. Each and every violation that continues shall be considered a
separate violation and will be subject to additional fines not to exceed the
above per 100 acre plot, or less, per day. In addition to these penalties a
stop-work order shall be issued by the appropriate town authority until the
violations are remedied.
§ 230-11. Enforcement.
   It shall be the duty of the Zoning/Code Enforcement Officer to enforce this
chapter.
CHAPTER 233. PROHIBITION OF THE USE OF TOBACCO OR TOBACCO-RELATED PRODUCTS
UPON PROPERTY OWNED BY THE TOWN OF HAMMONTON
[HISTORY: Adopted by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton as
indicated in article histories. Amendments noted where applicable.]
   
§ 233-1.   Definitions.
   
§ 233-2.   Prohibition.
   
§ 233-3.   Signage.
   
§ 233-4.   Enforcement.
   
§ 233-5.   Violations and penalties.
[Adopted 4-26-1989 by Ord. No. 13-1989; 7-24-1995 by Ord. No. 17-1995; 12-15-
2014 by Ord. No. 036-2014]
§ 233-1. Definitions.
   For purposes of this article, the terms used herein are defined as follows:
   ELECTRONIC SMOKING DEVICE — The use of an electronic device that can be used
to deliver nicotine or other substances to the person inhaling the device,
including, but not limited to, an electronic cigar, cigarette, cigarillo, or
pipe.
   MUNICIPAL PROPERTY — All land, buildings, or other improvements owned,
leased, rented, and/or operated by the Town of Hammonton, and/or occupied by
employees of the Town of Hammonton which are open to the public or to which the
public may be invited or otherwise have access. These shall include all areas
designated as town parks without reservation.
   SMOKING — The burning of, inhaling from, exhaling the smoke from, or the
possession of a lighted cigar, cigarette, cigarillo, pipe, or any other matter
or substance that contains tobacco.
   TOBACCO PRODUCT — Any product containing tobacco or nicotine, including but
not limited to cigars, cigarettes, cigarillos, pipe tobacco, snuff, chewing
tobacco, dipping tobacco, bidis, kreteks, snus, and electronic cigarette
cartridges.
§ 233-2. Prohibition.
   No person shall engage in smoking or the use of tobacco products while on
the grounds upon which are constructed municipal buildings and improvements,
including contiguous properties owned, leased, rented, and/or operated by the
Town of Hammonton regardless of whether any municipal building or improvement
is constructed thereupon. This shall include all areas designated as town
parks, without reservation.
§ 233-3. Signage.
   The Town Administrator shall post and maintain appropriate signage
throughout all municipal buildings and upon or on all town-owned property
advising all persons regarding the prohibiting of smoking upon said property.
§ 233-4. Enforcement.
   A.   This article shall be enforced by the Police Department, Parks
Commission, Recreation Supervisor, Town Administrator, or any other person
charged with the enforcement of ordinances of the Town of Hammonton.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to hinder, obstruct, molest, willfully oppose,
verbally abuse, or otherwise interfere with any person authorized to enforce
the requirements of this article.
   C.   Citizens may bring complaints against violators of this article.
§ 233-5. Violations and penalties.
   A.   Any individual violating the provisions of this article shall be
subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine of not less than $50 but not exceeding $100 for the first
offense;
      (2)   A fine of not less than $100 but not exceeding $200 for a second
offense;
      (3)   A fine of not less than $200 but not exceeding $500 for a third
offense;
      (4)   A fine of not less than $500 but not exceeding $1,000, and
mandatory community service of not less than 40 hours and not exceeding 160
hours, for offenses beyond the third offense.
   B.   All such complaints arising from an alleged violation of this article
shall be prosecuted in the Hammonton Municipal Court.
CHAPTER 241.
SOLID WASTE
[HISTORY: Adopted by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton as
indicated in article histories. Amendments noted where applicable.]
ARTICLE I.
Convenience Station
   
§ 241-1.   Establishment; permits.
   
§ 241-2.   Hours of operation.
   
§ 241-3.   Entry by authorized persons.
   
§ 241-4.   Acceptable materials.
   
§ 241-5.   Nonresidential users.
   
§ 241-6.   Appliances prohibited.
   
§ 241-7.   Nontransferable permit.
   
§ 241-8.   Violations and penalties.
   
§ 241-9.   through § 241-16. (Reserved)
ARTICLE II.
Trash Collection
   
§ 241-17.   Purpose.
   
§ 241-18.   Definitions.
   
§ 241-19.   Responsibility for collection and disposal.
   
§ 241-20.   Preparation for collection; interference.
   
§ 241-21.   Collection times.
   
§ 241-22.   Collection requirements.
   
§ 241-23.   Containers to be set out during specified times.
   
§ 241-24.   Restrictions on collectors.
   
§ 241-25.   Placement for collection.
   
§ 241-26.   Trash transported from outside municipality prohibited.
   
§ 241-27.   Refusal to collect.
   
§ 241-28.   Violations and penalties.
ARTICLE III.
Recycling
   
§ 241-29.   Title.
   
§ 241-30.   Definitions.
   
§ 241-31.   Program established.
   
§ 241-32.   Administration of program.
   
§ 241-33.   Separation of recyclables; placement for collection.
   
§ 241-34.   Leaves.
   
§ 241-35.   Alternative collection of recyclables.
   
§ 241-36.   Collection by unauthorized persons prohibited.
   
§ 241-37.   Inclusion in development plans.
   
§ 241-38.   Multifamily dwellings.
   
§ 241-39.   Exclusions.
   
§ 241-40.   Recycling Coordinator.
   
§ 241-41.   Enforcement.
   
§ 241-42.   Jurisdiction of Municipal Court.
   
§ 241-43.   Violations and penalties.
ARTICLE IV.
Fees for Solid Waste Removal
   
§ 241-44.   Purpose.
   
§ 241-45.   Fees imposed; stickers; application and use.
   
§ 241-46.   Construction waste.
   
§ 241-47.   Senior citizen discount.
ARTICLE V
Permit Procedures for Construction Dumpsters
   
§ 241-48.   Definitions.
   §
241-49.   Application/permit procedures.
   §
241-50.   Construction dumpster locations.
GENERAL REFERENCES
   Littering — See
Ch. 184.
   Property maintenance — See
Ch. 211.
   Human waste for crop fertilization — See
Ch. 134, Art. I.
   Abandoned refrigerators — See
Ch. 214.
Article I.
Convenience Station
[Adopted 4-23-2001 by Ord. No. 16-2001 Editor's Note: This ordinance also
repealed former Art. I, Dumps and Dumping, adopted 2-24-1986 by 2-1986, as
amended. ]
§ 241-1. Establishment; permits.
   A.   There is herein established by the governing body of the Town of
Hammonton a convenience station located at the site of the former municipal
dump. This convenience station shall be open and available for the use of
Hammonton residents only who have obtained a registration card/permit issued by
the office of the Treasurer of the Town of Hammonton.
   B.   A permit will issue upon establishing residency within the Town of
Hammonton, and each permit shall be valid for a period of one year beginning
January 1 of each year and expiring on December 31 of the same year.
§ 241-2. Hours of operation.
   The Hammonton convenience station shall be open to qualified permit holders
between such hours and on such days as may be established by the Hammonton
Highway Department with due notice thereof being posted at the entrance of the
convenience station in such manner as to be clearly visible to any person using
the facility.
§ 241-3. Entry by authorized persons.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to enter the convenience station and
utilize the same unless they are a holder of a valid permit issued by the Town
of Hammonton.
§ 241-4. Acceptable materials.
   Materials accepted at the convenience station shall be determined by the
governing body within their sole discretion. At no time may any explosive or
other dangerous or poisonous substance, chemical or other material likely to
cause injury to persons or the environment be acceptable at the Hammonton
convenience station. No tires of any kind or size shall be accepted at any
time.
§ 241-5. Nonresidential users.
   The convenience station shall not be available or utilized by any commercial
generator within the Town of Hammonton. "Commercial generator" shall be defined
and include but not be limited to contractors of any nature or businesspersons
generating solid waste as part of their business activity, agricultural
production business and office and professional businesses.
§ 241-6. Appliances prohibited.
   A.   No person shall be permitted to utilize the Hammonton convenience
station for disposal of any appliance, including but not limited to
refrigerators, ice makers, air conditioners, dehumidifiers and any other
appliance containing a refrigerant unless a prepaid sticker issued by the Town
of Hammonton is affixed to the item presented for disposal. A refrigerant
disposal sticker may be obtained from the Town of Hammonton upon payment of a
$10 per item intending to be disposed of at the convenience station.
   B.   A refrigerant removal sticker is also required for any appliance
requiring refrigerant removal for curbside pickup on days of bulky waste
collection.
§ 241-7. Nontransferable permit.
   A.   No permit issued by the Town of Hammonton for use at the Hammonton
convenience station may be assigned, loaned or transferred to any other person
or resident of the Town of Hammonton.
   B.   Any violation of this provision shall cause a revocation of the permit
and forfeiture of the ability to utilize the Hammonton convenience station for
the balance of the calendar year in which the permit is issued.
§ 241-8. Violations and penalties.
   Unless otherwise provided by law or statute, any person violating any of the
provisions of this article shall, upon conviction thereof, pay a penalty of not
less than $100 nor more than $500 for each offense.
§ 241-9. through § 241-16. (Reserved)
Article II.
Trash Collection
[Adopted 2-24-1986 by Ord. No. 5-1986]
§ 241-17. Purpose.
   The purpose of this article is to regulate and control the collection of
solid wastes within the Town of Hammonton.
§ 241-18. Definitions.
   For purposes of this article, the terms used herein are defined as follows:
   ASHES
   The residue from fires used for cooking foods and heating fires within
residential units.
   BRUSH
   Branches and twigs not to exceed three inches in diameter, five feet in
length and 50 pounds in weight that can be handled by one person. Brush does
not include trees.
[Added 7-25-2016 by Ord. No. 013-2016]
   BULK ITEMS
   Any large, heavy and/or bulky household appliances, furniture and
furnishings which cannot easily and safely be placed in the common collection
vehicle used for removal of solid waste within the Town of Hammonton.
   CONSTRUCTION DEBRIS
   Any scrap lumber, metal, earth, sand, brick, stone, plaster, roofing and
siding material and other debris of a similar nature which accumulates and is
incidental to the construction or renovation of homes, buildings, public works
or other projects.
   GARBAGE
   Any animal or vegetable waste solids resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking or consumption of foods, but not including human wastes.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE
   All waste which is deemed to be chemical waste, hazardous waste or
infectious waste, as defined by N.J.A.C. 7:26-1.4, and which shall include, but
not be limited to, wastes which are flammable, corrosive or explosive or which,
by themselves or in combination with other wastes, would be hazardous to life
or property.
   NONRESIDENTIAL USER
   Any type of commercial, industrial, apartment complex, hotel business
establishment, whether for profit or not.
[Amended 3-21-2005 by Ord. No. 4-2005]
   PAPER
   Includes newspapers, periodicals, cardboard and all other waste paper.
   RESIDENTIAL USER
   Any dwelling unit, including a single-family home or multifamily home.
[Amended 3-21-2005 by Ord. No. 4-2005]
   RUBBISH
   Includes rags, old clothes, leather, rubber, carpets, wood, sawdust, tree
branches, yard trimmings, wood furniture and other combustible solids not of a
highly volatile or explosive nature, metals, metal shavings, tin cans, glass,
crockery and other similar materials, exclusive of trade waste and waste
resulting from building construction or alteration work and exclusive of cellar
or yard dirt.
   SOLID WASTE COLLECTION CONTRACTOR
   A person or firm for hire, properly licensed in the State of New Jersey for
the purpose of collection of solid waste and solid waste materials.
   STREET, SIDEWALK, CURB, ALLEY
   Any accepted public street, curb, sidewalk or alley.
   TRADE WASTE
   All material resulting from the prosecution of any business, trade or
industry, whether or not conducted for profit, and shall include paper, rags,
leather, rubber, cartons, boxes, wood, sawdust, garbage, combustible and
noncombustible solids, except manure, metals, metal shavings, wire, tin cans,
cinders and other materials exclusive of wastes resulting from building
construction or alteration work.
   WASTE MATERIAL
   Includes any and all garbage, refuse, paper, ashes and wastes from building
construction or alteration work, regardless of how originating, and shall also
include cellar or yard dirt.
§ 241-19. Responsibility for collection and disposal.
   A.   Every residential user placing garbage, paper, ashes and rubbish,
herein defined, for collection from, on or in connection with residential
property or a residential unit, which property shall be within the boundaries
of the Town of Hammonton, may have such collection and removal provided by the
Town of Hammonton, subject to the rules and regulations set forth within this
article.
   B.   The Town of Hammonton shall not be responsible for the disposal of
trade waste, construction debris, hazardous waste, or waste related to the
transfer of ownership of a residential property or the change of occupancy by a
residential tenant thereof. It shall be the responsibility of the property
owner and/or tenant to arrange, in those circumstances, for a solid waste
collection contractor to remove the aforedescribed waste. Any person,
association, partnership, company, corporation, or property owner violating
this §
241-19(B) shall be subject to one or more of the following penalties:
   1.   For the first offense and second offense, a fine of $75; and
   2.   For a third or subsequent violation, a fine of up to $1,000,
imprisonment for a period not to exceed ninety (90) days or a period of
community service not to exceed ninety (90) days.
[Amended 4-26-2010 by Ord. No. 6-2010; 7-25-2016 by Ord. No. 013-2016]
   C.   The Town of Hammonton shall not be responsible for furnishing
collection vehicles or personnel to remove and dispose of the solid waste of
nonresidential users within the Town of Hammonton; however, the Town shall
assume responsibility for the collection of the solid waste generated by the
two volunteer fire companies and the three military service organizations
(America Legion, Veterans of Foreign Wars and Disabled American Veterans), at
their respective principal facilities, and the Hammonton Rescue Squad.
[Amended 1-21-2008 by Ord. No. 2-2008]
§ 241-20. Preparation for collection; interference.
   A.   Preparation for collection.
      (1)   Containers shall be provided by the owner, tenant, lessee or
occupant of the premises. Refuse containers shall be maintained in a clean,
safe and good condition. Any container that does not conform to the provisions
of this article or that may have ragged or sharp edges or any other defect
liable to hamper or injure the person collecting the contents thereof shall not
be utilized. The collector shall have the authority to refuse collection
services for failure to comply herewith.
      (2)   Appropriate containers.
         (a)   The containers shall be of galvanized or plastic composition,
shall not exceed 40 gallons in capacity, shall be no heavier than 50 pounds
when filled, shall have a lid or cover and shall have two sturdy handles.
         (b)   Plastic bags not less than two mils thick and not larger than 40
gallons may be used if properly tied.
         (c)   Substitute containers may be used in place of approved
containers, such as another bag which is water repellent and animal repellent,
treated paper garbage and refuse bags or a bag of similar nature. These bags
shall not be less than two mils thick and shall not be larger than 40 gallons.
All bags used shall be properly tied and secured so as to prevent escape of
solid waste.
      (3)   All garbage shall be thoroughly and completely drained of all
liquids, wrapped securely in paper and placed in a receptacle as hereinbefore
set forth.
      (4)   All grass, weeds, lawn clippings and similar growths shall be
placed in a container so that they may be readily emptied into the municipal
collection vehicle.
      (5)   Newspapers, magazines and periodicals shall be securely tied in
bundles, each having a maximum weight of 50 pounds.
      (6)   All broken glass or any other dangerous materials shall be placed
in a secure container to facilitate safe loading of broken glass or other
dangerous material.
      (7)   All ashes shall be placed in a container covered in such a manner
as to prevent contents of the container from becoming wet due to rain or snow.
Ashes shall be cold and free from any hot coals to prevent the possibility of
fire, and the container with the ashes shall not exceed 40 pounds in weight.
   (8)   Brush shall only be placed for collection in a single pile not
exceeding four feet in height, six feet in length, and six feet in width. Any
person, association, partnership, company, corporation, or property owner
violating this § 241-20(A)(8) shall be subject to one or more of the following
penalties:
      1.   For the first offense and second offense, a fine of $75; and
      2.   For a third or subsequent violation, a fine of up to $1,000,
imprisonment for a period not to exceed 90 days or a period of community
service not to exceed 90 days.
[Amended 4-26-2010 by Ord. No. 6-2010; 7-25-2016 by Ord. No. 013-2016]
   (9)   Household furniture will be accepted. However, separate arrangements
must be made by the individual owner with the Overseer of Highways of the Town
of Hammonton for the purposes of removal of said items.
   (10)   No person shall place on the curb or anywhere else for purposes of
collection any explosive or highly flammable materials or hazardous waste,
including but not limited to benzene, gasoline, petroleum, explosive powder,
nitrocellulose film or unbroken fluorescent tubes.
   (11)   Bulk items (as defined in this Chapter) shall not be collected with
the regular weekly collection but may be collected in accordance with a
schedule as determined by the Overseer of Highways for the Town of Hammonton.
The Town reserves the right to refuse collection of bulk materials which, in
its opinion, are excessively heavy or cumbersome including, but not limited to,
motor engine blocks, automobile bodies or portions thereof, truck bodies or
parts, carpets and other similar materials. No refrigerator shall be placed for
collection unless and until the door of the refrigerator and/or freezer has
been completely removed from the hinges and the lock has been rendered
inoperable. In no event shall any person or entity cause to be placed for
collection any item in violation of this subsection, nor shall any person or
entity cause to be placed for collection in excess of three bulky items for any
single collection. Any person, association, partnership, company, corporation
or property owner violating this §
241-20(A)(11) shall be subject to one or more of the following penalties:
      1.   For the first offense and second offense a fine of $75, in addition
to a fine of $50 per bulky item in excess of three bulky items, if any; and
      2.   For a third or subsequent violation, a fine of up to $1,000,
imprisonment for a period not to exceed 90 days or a period of community
service not to exceed 90 days.
[Amended 4-26-2010 by Ord. No. 6-2010; 7-25-2016 by Ord. No. 013-2016]
      (12)   Old lumber, shingles, wallboard or other old building material or
debris, if not able to be placed in containers, shall be stacked and securely
tied in bundles of not more than four feet in length and weighing not more than
50 pounds each.
      (13)   Each box, carton or other container must be flattened out and
disassembled so as to be readily and easily handled. No part of any such
article shall exceed four feet in length or weigh more than 50 pounds when
deposited for municipal collection.
      (14)   Arrangement for disposal of trees and stumps shall be made by the
owner, occupant or person in control of the premises and shall not be collected
by the Town of Hammonton.
      (15)   No person shall place in any receptacle any garbage, refuse or any
other material which could be injurious to the collectors of the municipality.
      (16)   Any paper drum or plywood drum shall not be utilized for the
storage of garbage or refuse or as ash containers, and containers of this type
will be classified as rubbish and will be collected by the municipality.
      (17)   Each container of solid waste shall be placed on level ground or
surface by the property owner, tenant or other person placing garbage for
collection or from whose property such garbage is proposed to be collected so
that it does not easily upset.
      (18)   If any container of garbage is upset or overturned other than by
the town employees engaged in garbage or refuse collection, the property owner,
tenant or other person placing the garbage for municipal collection shall
promptly clean up such spill of garbage and restore it to a suitable container
as defined hereinbefore.
      (19)   No person shall place any of the items referred to in this article
for collection in any street or highway, either for collection by the
municipality or private disposal.
      (20)   If any container of garbage is upset or overturned by a municipal
employee other than as a result of improper preparation by the residential
user, the municipal employee shall immediately collect such garbage and dispose
of the same in the collection vehicle.
      (21)   If any town employee, in the course of his/her duties, observes
noncompliance with any of the regulations of this article, the employee shall
immediately inform the Overseer of Highways of the Town of Hammonton. In the
event that the noncompliance is noticed by a collector of the municipality, the
collector shall not make the collection of the noncom plying items and shall
immediately report this noncollection to the Overseer of Highways of the Town
of Hammonton.
      (22)   No trash or garbage shall be deposited upon any public street or
any other public place except at the curb for collection by the municipality in
accordance herewith.
      (23)   Receptacles utilized by nonresidential users must meet the minimum
requirements as set forth herein. However, said receptacles can be larger in
size as long as they are covered to prevent any refuse from being scattered
about by wind or other elements, are rodent proof, are cleaned and sanitized as
required and are conveniently located on the premises for storage of refuse and
are maintained in such a manner as to prevent creation of a nuisance or menace
to the public health. Nonresidential users shall arrange to have refuse removed
daily unless suitable facilities are provided for the storage of solid waste
until its removal.
      (24)   When a residential user elects to clean up accumulated refuse from
cellars, back yards, alleys, attics and spare rooms and excess furniture, it
shall be the obligation of the residential user to place such material in such
quantity and in such a manner as not to create a public nuisance and safety
hazard, and if the accumulation of solid waste exceeds more than five
containers prepared in accordance with this article, the residential user shall
either make special arrangements with the Overseer of Highways to have the
materials picked up in accordance with the schedule established by the Overseer
of Highways or shall arrange for private collection thereof.
      (25)   Municipal employees shall not be required to make garbage or trash
collections from the premises of any residential user whereon a dog is
permitted to run loose.
   B.   No person or persons shall prevent or interfere with any agent, servant
or employee of the town or any authorized contractor or collector of garbage,
trash or refuse or with any contractor's or collector's employees engaged in
the discharge of their duties, in the sweeping or cleaning of any street or
removal there from of sweepings, ashes, garbage, rubbish or paper or other
refuse materials, or in the collection of garbage, trash, waste, ashes, rubbish
or similar material.
§ 241-21. Collection times.
[Amended 9-25-2000 by Ord. No. 35-2000]
   Collection from residential users shall be in accordance with a schedule
announced by the Highway Department of the Town of Hammonton. This schedule may
be from time to time amended upon publication. All collections of garbage and
any other material provided for in this article shall be collected starting at
7:00 a.m. During the months of June, July and August, collection will begin at
6:00 a.m.
§ 241-22. Collection requirements.
   A.   If any one or more of the above regulations are not followed by the
property owner, tenant or other person desiring municipal collection, the
municipality or its employees shall not be obligated to make a collection of
the items concerning which any one or more of the above regulations have not
been followed.
   B.   When any of the items named in or referred to in §
241-20 of this article are placed at or just inside the curbline, it shall be
assumed that the same are so placed for municipal garbage and refuse collection
and disposal.
§ 241-23. Containers to be set out during specified times.
[Amended 9-25-2000 by Ord. No. 35-2000]
   For collection pursuant to a schedule announced by the Highway Department of
the Town of Hammonton, all approved containers must be placed at the curbline,
where they shall be easily accessible. No container shall be set out prior to
12:00 noon on the day prior to collection, and all containers shall be removed
by 8:00 p.m. on the collection day. When a regular collection day falls on a
legal holiday, containers shall not be set out until the next regularly
scheduled collection, unless special announcement of collection is made by the
town.
§ 241-24. Restrictions on collectors.
   A.   Collection shall be done in a quiet and orderly manner in compliance
with all applicable statutes and noise ordinances within the Town of Hammonton.
   B.   All solid waste collection contractors shall comply with the ordinances
of the town and rules and regulations and orders of the Highway Department, as
well as all applicable state, county and federal laws and regulations.
   C.   All vehicles of solid waste collection contractors shall be of a closed
type and of such construction and loaded in such a fashion that no part of the
contents shall fall, leak or spill there from.
§ 241-25. Placement for collection.
   A.   All materials set or placed for collection by residential users shall
be set or placed as near as possible upon or along the curbline and shall not
be set or placed in any gutter, road or on any walk, sidewalk or public
thoroughfare so as to interfere with public travel.
   B.   Town collectors of solid waste are prohibited from entering upon any
unaccepted lands, streets, services areas, driveways or alleys or any privately
owned buildings or portions of any such buildings for the purpose of removing
refuse materials to the curb, and if solid waste of residential users is not
placed in accordance with this article, the municipal collector will not accept
the waste for collection.
   C.   When it shall appear to be more efficient for collection by the
municipality, the municipality, upon written request or permission by the
owner, may authorize town collectors to enter upon and collect garbage and
refuse placed at the curbline or side line of such unaccepted streets, lanes,
alleys, driveways, service areas or other thoroughfare areas as it may
designate, subject to such conditions as it may impose. Such collection service
shall not, however, be construed to be an acceptance of any such unaccepted
thoroughfare or area.
§ 241-26. Trash transported from outside municipality prohibited.
   A.   No person shall bring, cart, remove, transport or collect any solid
waste, whether garbage, paper, ashes, rubbish, waste materials, construction
debris, bulk items, hazardous waste or trade waste, from outside this
municipality or into this municipality for the purpose of dumping or disposing
thereof.
   B.   No person shall bring, cart, remove, transport or collect any trade
waste, waste materials, construction debris, hazardous waste or bulk items from
a nonresidential user and place the same for collection with the solid waste of
a residential user, and, in those locations where residential and
nonresidential users are located on the same premises, the solid waste shall be
disposed of separately and in accordance with this article.
§ 241-27. Refusal to collect.
   Any solid waste placed for collection by a residential user not in
accordance with this article will be refused by the municipal collector, and it
shall be the responsibility of the residential user to remove said solid waste
from the curbline and have it properly containerized, packaged or secured for
purposes of collection on the next scheduled date, or the residential user
shall have same disposed of privately by a solid waste collection contractor.
§ 241-28. Violations and penalties.
   A.   Any person, firm, corporation or association violating the terms of
this article, whether as principal, agent or employee or another, shall, upon
conviction in the Municipal Court of the Town of Hammonton in the County of
Atlantic, be subject to one or more of the following: a fine of not more than
$1,000, imprisonment for a period not to exceed 90 days or a period of
community service not to exceed 90 days.
   B.   Each and every violation of this article and each and every day that
any provision of this article shall be violated shall be construed as a
separate and distinct violation thereof.
   C.   The violations and penalties set forth in this §
241-28 are inapplicable to violations of §
241-19(B), §
241-20(A)(8) and §
241-20(A)(11), as these sections already contain separate penalties for a
violation.
[Added 7-25-2016 by Ord. No. 013-2016]
Article III.
Recycling
[Adopted 10-23-1989 by Ord. No. 34-1989]
§ 241-29. Title.
   This article shall be known and may be cited as the "Recycling Ordinance of
the Town of Hammonton."
§ 241-30. Definitions.
   As used in this article, the following terms shall have the meanings
indicated:
   ALUMINUM
   Includes all products made wholly of aluminum, including but not limited to
aluminum cans, aluminum sheds, lawn chair frames, aluminum siding, window
frames and other clean household aluminum, but does not include aluminum foil,
trays, plates and screening.
   BRUSH
   Branches and twigs not to exceed three inches in diameter, five feet in
length and 50 pounds in weight that can be handled by one person. Brush does
not include trees.
[Amended 7-25-2016 by Ord. No. 013-2016]
   CARDBOARD OR CORRUGATED PAPER
   Clean, heavy box materials commonly known as "cardboard boxes" and similar
heavy paper packaging containers that are free of plastic, foam and other
contaminants, also including food packaging boxes and other commercial
packaging that is free of food contaminants, plastic, wax and foam materials
that would make it undesirable for recycling purposes. All cardboard and
packaging must be opened and flattened for ease of handling.
   COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENTS
   Those properties used primarily for commercial purposes.
   FERROUS CONTAINERS
   Empty steel or tin food or beverage containers.
   GLASS
   Bottles and jars made of clear, green or brown glass. Expressly excluded are
noncontainer glass, plate or window glass, dishes, mirrors, drinkware,
tableware, porcelain or ceramics.
   INSTITUTIONAL ESTABLISHMENTS
   Those facilities that house or serve groups of people, including but not
limited to hospitals, schools, nursing homes, libraries and government offices.
   PAPER
   Newsprint and other forms of paper and paper products, such as magazines,
catalogs, office paper, etc., excluding those soiled (i.e., containing carbon,
adhesive or plastic) or unfit due to health and/or sanitary reasons. Newspapers
shall also be deemed soiled if they have been exposed to substances rendering
them unusable for recycling (i.e., water).
   PERSON
   Every owner, lessee and occupant of a residence within the boundaries of the
Town of Hammonton.
   PLASTICS
   Includes all materials or other products made of plastic.
[Added 11-22-1993 by Ord. No. 27-1993]
   RECYCLABLE MATERIALS
   Those materials which would otherwise become municipal solid waste and which
may be collected, separated or processed and returned to the economic
mainstream in the form of raw materials or products.
   RESIDENCE
   Any occupied single-family or multifamily dwelling from which the waste is
hauled to the landfill by the hauler or occupant.
   SCRAP METAL
   Includes ferrous or tin cans (excluding sixty-four-ounce containers),
refrigerators, freezers, water heaters, washers, dryers, metal sheds and any
other type of bulk metal household item.
   SOLID WASTE
   Any garbage, refuse and other discarded solid material brought to the
landfill by resident or hauler.
   YARD WASTE
   Includes branches, underbrush, pruning waste, shrubbery and soil.
§ 241-31. Program established.
   There is hereby established a mandatory program for the separation of
recyclable materials from the municipal solid waste stream by all persons
within the Town of Hammonton, hereinafter referred to as the "municipality."
§ 241-32. Administration of program.
   The Mayor and Council is hereby authorized to establish and promulgate
reasonable regulations, from time to time, to be adopted by resolution of the
Municipal Council, which shall specifically spell out the manner of operation
of this program. The regulation shall provide, among other provisions, the
following:
   A.   Items determined to be recyclable.
   B.   Persons and/or firms to be subject to said regulations.
   C.   Dates, times and places of pickup.
   D.   Manner of preparing recyclable items for pickup.
   E.   Any other regulations required to implement said program.
§ 241-33. Separation of recyclables; placement for collection.
   A.   Items designated to be recyclable materials by regulations hereinafter
promulgated, excluding newspapers and other paper goods, shall be put in a
suitable container, separate from other solid waste, and placed at the curb or
such other designated area for collection at certain times and dates as may be
hereinafter established in the municipality's recycling regulations. In no
event shall items placed at curbside for collection be placed in a manner so as
to impede pedestrian or vehicular traffic. The container for recyclable
materials shall be clearly labeled and placed at the designated area for
collection. Plastic shall be a recyclable material that will be placed for
collection.
[Amended 11-22-1993 by Ord. No. 27-1993]
   B.   Newspapers and other paper goods shall be bundled and tied with twine
or placed in a kraft paper bag (brown paper bag) and placed at the curb or
other designated area for collection at such times and dates as established in
the municipality's recycling regulations. The maximum weight of each bundle or
bag shall not exceed 30 pounds (approximately 12 inches high).
   C.   If the recyclable collection and regular trash collection is on the
same day, the recyclable containers and newspapers shall be at least six feet
from the regular containers.
§ 241-34. Leaves.
   All persons within the municipality shall separate leaves from other solid
waste generated at their premises and, unless the leaves are stored or recycled
for composting or mulching on the premises or as otherwise provided for by the
municipality, place the leaves at the curb or other designated area for
collection at such times and dates and in the manner established by the
municipality's recycling regulations.
§ 241-35. Alternative collection of recyclables.
   A.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, any person who is
an owner, lesser or occupant may donate and sell recyclables to any person,
partnership or corporation, whether operating for profit or not for profit.
These materials may either be delivered to the individual's or organization's
site or they may be placed at the curb for collection by said individual or
organization on days not designated as recyclable material collection days in
the municipality's or designated agent's recycling regulations.
   B.   In the event that materials are donated within the terms of this
article, it shall be the responsibility of the person or persons accepting the
donation to notify the Town of Hammonton Highway Department and the Town of
Hammonton Recycling Coordinator so as to afford the town proper accounting of
weight diverted from the solid waste stream.
   C.   Prior to collecting any recyclable materials, the person, partnership
or corporation, whether operating for profit or not for profit, or a
charitable, educational, cultural or religious organization, must register with
the Highway Department and receive written authorization to make said
collections and to use for identification purposes while soliciting.
§ 241-36. Collection by unauthorized persons prohibited.
   It shall be a violation of this article for any unauthorized person,
partnership, corporation or organization to collect, pick up or cause to be
collected or picked up, within the boundaries of this municipality, any of the
recyclable materials designated in the municipality's recycling regulations.
Each such collection in violation of this article shall constitute a separate
and distinct offense, punishable as hereinafter provided.
§ 241-37. Inclusion in development plans.
   Any proposals for new development of five or more multifamily units and
1,000 square feet or more of commercial or industrial space must incorporate
provisions for recycling in the site plans. The Town of Hammonton Master Plan
must incorporate a recycling plan element and must be updated for recycling
every six years.
§ 241-38. Multifamily dwellings.
   In case of apartment houses, townhouses, condominiums or other multifamily
dwellings, the owner, manager or condominium association, whichever shall
apply, of said multifamily units shall ensure that a special place is
designated for the storage of recyclable materials as designated by the
municipality's recycling regulations. All owners, lessees or occupants of these
dwelling units shall be required to separate recyclable items in the manner
required by the municipality's recycling regulations and place them in the
designated place. The owner, manager or condominium association, whichever
shall apply, of the multifamily units shall notify the Municipal Highway
Department and the municipality's designated agent of the location of the
storage area. The location and setup of the designated area is to be subject to
the site plan approval of the municipality's Planning Board. With respect to
existing construction, the location and setup of the designated area shall
first be approved by the appropriate town officials.
§ 241-39. Exclusions.
   The Mayor and Council of the Town of Hammonton excludes from pickup service
persons and/or companies occupying commercial and institutional establishments.
These persons must otherwise provide for the collection of recyclable materials
as the same are designated in the municipality's recycling regulations. Prior
to April 1 of each year, said occupants must provide written documentation to
the municipality of the total amount of materials recycled during the preceding
calendar year.
§ 241-40. Recycling Coordinator.
   The municipality shall have a Recycling Coordinator who shall be appointed
by the Mayor and Council. The Recycling Coordinator shall have the authority,
obligation and duty to administer the recycling program in the municipality.
The Recycling Coordinator shall be under the jurisdiction of the Overseer of
Highways.
§ 241-41. Enforcement.
   The Highway Department and the Code Enforcement Officer of the Town of
Hammonton shall be the enforcing agents for this article and may issue written
warnings and/or summonses returnable in the Hammonton Municipal Court.
§ 241-42. Jurisdiction of Municipal Court.
   The Municipal Court of the Town of Hammonton shall have jurisdiction and
hear complaints for violations of this article.
§ 241-43. Violations and penalties.
   Any person, firm, corporation or organization that violates this article
shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to one or more of the following: a
fine of not more than $1,000, imprisonment for a period not to exceed 90 days
or a period of community service not to exceed 90 days. Each violation shall be
considered as a separate offense, and each date of violation shall be
considered as a separate offense when determining penalties under this section.
Article IV.
Fees for Solid Waste Removal
[Adopted 5-22-1995 by Ord. No. 13-1995]
§ 241-44. Purpose.
   A.   The Town of Hammonton has incurred substantial increased cost to
collect, transport and dispose of solid waste, including among other costs a
tipping or disposal charge paid to the Atlantic County Utilities Authority for
the use of the County Landfill.
   B.   The disposal charge is in addition to the other costs of
administration, equipment and labor which the town maintains for providing this
service to the community.
   C.   Unless the increased costs are not offset by the creation of new
revenue, the service of trash and garbage collection and disposal by the town
will be in serious jeopardy of continuance. Also, the additional cost of
disposal of trash as outlined in this article should be paid by those receiving
the benefit and not by all the taxpayers.
   D.   The intention of this article is to provide a method of securing
revenue to meet at least in part these added costs and to impose the charges
for this service approximately to the persons who receive this service. This
result has not been reached arbitrarily and is a conclusion taken from a study
of costs and charges which faces the Town of Hammonton. The resulting method
and fees are deemed to be fair and equitable without intending to be a revenue
measure beyond need. The fees imposed will be charged to the person receiving
the service and in relation to the extent of the service furnished.
§ 241-45. Fees imposed; stickers; application and use.
   A.   There is hereby created a fee for the collection and disposal of solid
waste in the Town of Hammonton to be known as the "sticker fee," which shall be
adopted by resolution yearly.
   B.   The fees provided for shall be paid to the town by the purchase of
town-approved and town-issued stickers. The stickers shall be applied to the
solid waste sought to be disposed.
   C.   Stickers shall be placed upon the bag, container or item being disposed
in a conspicuous place thereon. If no sticker is applied, the waste will not be
collected.
   D.   Stickers may be purchased only from the authorized officer of the town
who will issue them to qualified users of this service in books of such number
prescribed to be issued.
   E.   Application may be made to such officer during any business day so that
the service will not be interrupted according to the need of the user to have
his, her or its waste collected.
   F.   The application to secure such stickers shall require the name of the
user, the address of the property adjacent to which the waste will be placed
for collection and the nature of the use of the property. The stickers will not
be transferable.
§ 241-46. Construction waste.
   Any waste material more than two cubic yards generated by the renovation,
remodeling, repair or addition by the property owner, business, entity or agent
thereof shall be disposed of by hiring or employing a private contractor.
§ 241-47. Senior citizen discount.
   Senior citizens shall be entitled to a discounted fee.
ARTICLE V.
Permit Procedures for Construction Dumpsters
[Adopted 4-20-2015 by Ord. No. 007-2015]
§ 241-48. Definitions.
   As used in this article, the following term shall have the meaning
indicated:
   CONSTRUCTION DUMPSTER — A roll-off waste container transported to and from
the place of use by trucks or trailers and positioned at a construction site
for the collection and eventual disposal of construction waste.
§ 241-49. Application/permit procedures.
   Any property owner or private contractor intending to utilize a construction
dumpster shall complete a permit application in the Construction Office. The
permit shall require that the applicant certify that the location is compliant
of the provisions §
241-50A and B below. It is the policy of the town to require the placing of
dumpsters on private property and to permit placement of same upon the public
roadways if and only if placement on private property is not possible. Where
placement is proposed for a public roadway, the application shall be provided
to the Chief of Police who shall determine whether public safety shall be
jeopardized by the proposed placement. If the Chief of Police deems the
location appropriate, he/she shall indicate his/her approval on the application
and return same to the Construction Office.
§ 241-50. Construction dumpster locations.
   A.   Single-family residential zones. No construction dumpster shall be
located within 10 feet of an abutting dwelling, unless the owner of the
abutting dwelling agrees to such in writing which shall be submitted with the
permit application. No dumpster shall be placed so that it blocks any public
sidewalk. Only in those instances where it is physically impossible to locate
the construction dumpster on the residential premises shall it be placed in the
roadway and then only if all other pertinent sections of this article are
complied with.
   B.   Multifamily, commercial and industrial zones. No construction dumpster
shall be located within 10 feet of an abutting residential property unless the
occupant of the abutting dwelling agrees to such in writing which shall be
submitted with the permit application. No dumpster shall be placed so that it
blocks any public sidewalk. Only in those instances where it is physically
impossible to locate the construction dumpster on the residential premises
shall it be placed in the roadway and then only if all other pertinent sections
of this article are complied with.
   C.   Location on public street. If permitted, any construction dumpster
placed on a public roadway shall be positioned directly in front of or on the
side of the property address utilizing the dumpster. Additionally, a dumpster
placed in a roadway shall:
      (1)   Be not more than 12 inches from the curb;
      (2)   Not obstruct driveways of abutting properties;
      (3)   Not obstruct traffic or create a "blind spot" which would
jeopardize the safety of pedestrians, bicyclists or other motorists;
      (4)   Be protected at both ends by a barricade, which after sunset shall
have a flashing yellow light attached to it; and
      (5)   Have a reflector or reflective area of not less than 36 square
inches at each end.
   D.   No parking zones. A dumpster shall not be placed on a public street if
on-street parking for vehicles is not allowed at that location.
   E.   Time limitations.
      (1)   Single-family residential zones. A construction dumpster and any
replacement dumpster placed under this subsection and not in a public street
may be placed for not more than a total of 30 days in any six-month period. An
exception to this time limit shall be made for dumpsters associated with the
construction of new residential dwellings which shall be permitted to remain
upon the premises (as opposed to on any roadway) from the date of construction
permit issuance to the date of a Certificate of Occupancy issuance. A
construction dumpster and any replacement dumpster placed upon a public street
may be placed for not more than a total of 14 days in any six-month period.
      (2)   Multifamily and commercial. A construction dumpster and any
replacement dumpster placed under this subsection and not in a public street
may remain in the site as long as required, but not to exceed a total of six
months. A construction dumpster or any replacement dumpster placed upon a
public street may be placed for not more than a total of 14 days in any six-
month period.
      (3)   Industrial. A dumpster or any replacement dumpster placed under
this subsection may remain on the site as long as needed, but not to exceed a
total of 18 months.
   F.   Sanitation. The following requirements shall be maintained regardless
of the dumpster's location:
      (1)   The area around the dumpster shall be kept free of debris and
litter;
      (2)   Any dumpster into which animal or vegetable waste or material has
been dumped or deposited shall be removed or emptied within 24 hours;
      (3)   Any dumpster producing or causing noxious, foul or offensive odors
shall be immediately removed or cleaned to eliminate the odor;
      (4)   A full dumpster shall be removed from the site and emptied within
two days; and
      (5)   The dumpster must be covered at night and when not in active use.
   G.   Usage. A dumpster shall only be used to contain and remove debris and
material generated at the location where the dumpster is placed.
   H.   Identification. The name and telephone number of the owner of the
dumpster and/or the company that is responsible for the dumpster shall be
displayed in a weatherproof manner on the dumpster.
   I.   Permit required. A permit shall be required for all dumpsters. The
permit shall be obtained from the Construction Office after paying the required
fee of $25; however, if the dumpster is going to be placed in the roadway, a
fee of $200.00 shall be required. The permit shall be displayed in a
weatherproof manner on the dumpster.
   J.   Insurance. For any dumpster to be placed in a public roadway, the
applicant shall provide proof of insurance in the amount of $1,000,000.00
combined single limit which also names the town as an additional insured.
   K.   Abatement. Any dumpster not in compliance with this subsection is
hereby declared to be a public nuisance and may be abated by the municipality
at the property owner's and/or responsible person's expense. Abatement shall,
at the municipality's option, include the removal and/or the emptying of the
dumpster.
   L.   Violations; penalties.
      (1)   Violation of any provision of this subsection shall be punishable
by a fine in an amount up to $1,000.00 plus court costs which may be assessed
against both the property owner and any other responsible party. Each day that
the violation continues may be considered a separate offense.
      (2)   In addition, a person found guilty of a violation of this
subsection shall be ordered to abate the problem and pay the cost incurred by
the Town of Hammonton if the town abated the problem.
CHAPTER 244.
SPECIAL SALES
[HISTORY: Adopted by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton 9-
13-1971 by Ord. No. 10-1971 as Ch. 139 of the 1971 Code. Amendments noted where
applicable.]
   
§ 244-1.   Definitions.
   
§ 244-2.   License required.
   
§ 244-3.   Applicability of regulations.
   
§ 244-4.   Application requirements.
   
§ 244-5.   Effect of license.
   
§ 244-6.   Duties of licensee.
   
§ 244-7.   Violations and penalties.
GENERAL REFERENCES
   Auctions — See
Ch. 88.
§ 244-1. Definitions.
   A.   When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense
include the future, words in the plural number include the singular number, and
words in the singular number include the plural number. The word "shall" is
always mandatory and not merely directory.
   B.   For the purposes of this chapter the following terms, phrases, words
and their derivations shall have the meaning given herein:
   FIRE, FLOOD AND OTHER ALTERED-GOODS SALE
   A sale held out in such a manner as to reasonably cause the public to
believe that the sale will offer goods damaged or altered by fire, smoke, water
or other means, or goods which were on the premises at the time of the fire or
other casualty and not damaged by said casualty.
   GOING-OUT-OF-BUSINESS SALE
   A sale held out in such a manner as to reasonably cause the public to
believe that upon the disposal of the stock of goods on hand the business will
cease and be discontinued, including, but not limited to, the following sales:
Adjuster's; Adjustment; Alteration; Assignee's Bankrupt; Benefit of
Administrator's; Benefit of Creditors'; Benefit of Trustees; Building Coming
Down; Closing; Creditor's Committee; Creditor's; End; Executor's; Final Days;
Forced Out; Forced Out of Business; Insolvents'; Last Days; Lease Expires;
Liquidation; Loss of Lease; Mortgage Sale; Receiver's; Trustee's; Quitting
Business; Rebuilding and Remodeling Sale.
   GOODS
   Meant to include any goods, wares, merchandise or other property capable of
being the object of a sale regulated hereunder.
   PERSON
   Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   REMOVAL-OF-BUSINESS SALE
   A sale held out in such a manner as to reasonably cause the public to
believe that the person conducting the sale will cease and discontinue business
at the place of sale upon disposal of the stock of goods on hand and will then
move to and resume business at a new location in the town or will then continue
business from other existing locations in the town.
   TOWN
   The Town of Hammonton.
   TOWN LICENSE OFFICER
   The Town Clerk/Administrator of the Town of Hammonton.
§ 244-2. License required.
   A license issued by the Town License Officer shall be obtained by any person
before selling or offering to sell any goods at a sale to be advertised or held
out by any means to be one of the following kinds:
   A.   Going-out-of-business sale;
   B.   Removal-of-business sale; or
   C.   Fire, flood and other altered-stock sale.
§ 244-3. Applicability of regulations.
   A.   Established business requisite.
      (1)   Any person who has not been the owner of a business advertised or
described in the application for a license hereunder for a period of at least
12 months prior to the date of the proposed sale shall not be granted a
license.
      (2)   Exception for survivors of businessmen. Upon the death of a person
doing business in this town, his or her heirs, devisees or legatees shall have
the right to apply at any time for a license hereunder.
   B.   Interval between sales. Any person who has held a sale, as regulated
hereunder, at the location stated in the application, within two years last
past from the date of such application, shall not be granted a license.
   C.   Restricted location. Where a person applying for a license hereunder
operates more than one place of business, the license issued shall apply only
to the one store or branch specified in the application, and no other store or
branch shall advertise or represent that it is cooperating with it or in any
way participating in the licensed sale, nor shall the store or branch
conducting the licensed sale advertise or represent that any other store or
branch is cooperating with it or participating in any way in the licensed sale.
   D.   Persons exempted. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to or
affect the following persons:
      (1)   Persons acting pursuant to an order or process of a court of
competent jurisdiction.
      (2)   Persons acting in accordance with their powers and duties as public
officials.
      (3)   Duly licensed auctioneers selling at auction.
      (4)   Persons conducting a sale of the type regulated herein on the
effective date of this chapter, unless such sale is continued for a period of
more than 10 days from and after such effective date, in which event such
persons, at the lapse of the said ten-day period, shall comply with the
provisions of this chapter.
      (5)   Any publisher of a newspaper, magazine or other publication who
publishes in good faith any advertisement without knowledge of its false,
deceptive or misleading character, or without knowledge that the provisions of
this chapter have not been complied with.
§ 244-4. Application requirements.
   A.   Written information required. A person desiring to conduct a sale
regulated by this chapter shall make a written application to the License
Officer, setting forth and containing the following information:
      (1)   The true name and address of the owner of the goods to be the
object of the sale.
      (2)   The true name and address of the person from whom the goods to be
sold have been purchased and the price therefor, and if not purchased, the
manner of such acquisition.
      (3)   A description of the place where such sale is to be held.
      (4)   The nature of the occupancy, whether by lease or sublease, and the
effective date of termination of such occupancy.
      (5)   The dates of the period of time in which the sale is to be
conducted.
      (6)   A full and complete statement of the facts in regard to the sale,
including the reason for the urgent and expeditious disposal of goods thereby
and the manner in which the sale will be conducted.
      (7)   The means to be employed in advertising such sale, together with
the proposed content of any advertisement.
      (8)   A complete and detailed inventory of the goods to be sold at such
sale as disclosed by the applicant's records. Said inventory shall be attached
to and become part of the required application.
         (a)   Bona fide orders. All goods included in such inventory shall
have been purchased by the applicant for resale on bona fide orders without
cancellation privileges, and shall not comprise goods purchased on consignment.
         (b)   Goods purchased for sale hereunder. Such inventory shall not
include goods ordered in contemplation of conducting a sale regulated
hereunder. Any unusual purchase or additions to the stock of goods of the
business hereby affected within 60 days before the filing of an application
hereunder shall be deemed to be of such character.
   B.   License fee. Any applicant for a license hereunder shall submit to the
License Officer with the application a license fee of $25. Any applicant for a
renewal license hereunder shall submit to the License Officer with the renewal
application a renewal license fee of $25.
§ 244-5. Effect of license.
   A license shall be issued hereunder on the following terms:
   A.   Licensing period. The license shall authorize the sale described in the
application for a period of not more than 10 consecutive days, Sundays and
legal holidays excluded, following the issuance thereof.
   B.   Renewal procedure.
      (1)   The License Officer shall renew a license for one period of time
only, such period to be in addition to the 10 days permitted in the original
license and not to exceed 10 consecutive days, Sundays and holidays excluded,
when he/she finds:
         (a)   That facts exist justifying the license renewal.
         (b)   That the licensee has filed an application for renewal.
         (c)   That the licensee has submitted with the application for renewal
a revised inventory showing the items listed on the original inventory
remaining unsold and not listing any goods not included in the original
application and inventory.
      (2)   For the purpose of this subsection, any application for a license
under the provisions of this chapter covering any goods previously inventoried
as required hereunder shall be deemed to be an application for renewal, whether
presented by the original applicant or by any other person.
   C.   Nature of sale. The license shall authorize only the one type of sale
described in the application at the location named therein.
   D.   Salable goods. The license shall authorize only the sale of goods
described in the inventory attached to the application.
   E.   Nontransferability. Any license herein provided for shall not be
assignable or transferable.
§ 244-6. Duties of licensee.
   A licensee hereunder shall:
   A.   Adhere to inventory. Make no additions whatsoever during the period of
the licensed sale, to the stock of goods set forth in the inventory attached to
the application for license.
   B.   Advertise properly. Refrain from employing any untrue, deceptive or
misleading advertising.
   C.   Adhere to advertising. Conduct the licensed sale in strict conformity
with any advertising or holding out incident thereto.
   D.   Keep duplicate inventory. Keep available at the place of sale a
duplicate copy of the inventory submitted with the application, and shall
present such duplicate to inspecting officials upon request.
   E.   Segregate noninventoried goods. Keep any other goods separate and apart
from the goods listed in the filed inventory as being objects of sale, and
shall make such distinction clear to the public by placing tags on all
inventoried goods in and about the place of sale, apprising the public of the
status of all such goods.
§ 244-7. Violations and penalties.
   Any person violating any of the terms and provisions of this chapter shall,
upon conviction in the Municipal Court of the Town of Hammonton, be subject to
one or more of the following: a fine of not more than $1,000, imprisonment for
a period not to exceed 90 days or a period of community service not to exceed
90 days. The Municipal Judge before whom any person is convicted of violating
this chapter shall have the power to impose any fine or term of imprisonment,
not exceeding the maximum fixed in this chapter.
CHAPTER 247.
STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
[HISTORY: Adopted by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton as
indicated in article histories. Amendments noted where applicable.]
ARTICLE I.
Obstructions
   
§ 247-1.   Placement of building materials and other obstructions; removal.
   
§ 247-2.   Obstruction of sidewalks by gates.
   
§ 247-3.   Recovering penalties.
   
§ 247-4.   Violations and penalties.
ARTICLE II.
Snow and Ice Removal
   
§ 247-5.   Responsibility; time limit.
   
§ 247-6.   Noncompliance.
   
§ 247-7.   Costs.
   
§ 247-8.   Violations and penalties.
ARTICLE III.
Excavations and Openings
   
§ 247-9.   Definitions.
   
§ 247-10.   Permit required; emergencies.
   
§ 247-11.   Application for permit.
   
§ 247-12.   Issuance of permit; revocation.
   
§ 247-13.   Commencement of work; notice; backfilling and restoration of
pavement; traffic.
   
§ 247-14.   Fees; performance and maintenance guaranty.
   
§ 247-15.   Town to be saved harmless.
   
§ 247-16.   Certificate of insurance required.
   
§ 247-17.   Maintenance of traffic flow.
   
§ 247-18.   Safety requirements.
   
§ 247-19.   Specifications for restoration of road.
   
§ 247-20.   Standards for existing town roads or right-of-ways.
   
§ 247-21.   Specifications for dedicated but unopened streets.
   
§ 247-22.   Protection of newly paved roadways.
   
§ 247-23.   Violations and penalties.
ARTICLE IV.
Construction of Curbs and Sidewalks Required by Persons Constructing
Residential or Commercial Buildings
   
§ 247-24.   Construction of curbs and sidewalks required; costs.
   
§ 247-25.   Submission of plans and specifications.
   
§ 247-26.   Provisions where no road grade has been established; certification.
   
§ 247-27.   Curb/sidewalk waiver request provisions.
   
§ 247-28.   Violations and penalties.
   
§ 247-29.   through § 247-30. (Reserved)
ARTICLE V.
Construction of Rights-of-Way in Subdivisions and Multifamily Housing Projects
   
§ 247-31.   Restrictions on applications.
   
§ 247-32.   Definitions.
   
§ 247-33.   Permit required for construction or improving of rights-of-way.
   
§ 247-34.   Conditions for permit approval.
   
§ 247-35.   Certification of installation of public utilities.
   
§ 247-36.   Payment of inspection fees and related costs.
   
§ 247-37.   Violations and penalties.
ARTICLE VI.
Sidewalk and Curb Construction and Maintenance
   
§ 247-38.   Premises owner to maintain sidewalks and curbs.
   
§ 247-39.   Notice to owner of unsafe condition.
   
§ 247-40.   Failure to comply; work to be done by town.
   
§ 247-41.   Line and grade of sidewalks and curbs.
   
§ 247-42.   Appropriation of funds; disposition of moneys.
   
§ 247-43.   Application for permit; fee.
   
§ 247-44.   Violations and penalties.
ARTICLE VII.
Street Lighting Standards
   
§ 247-45.   Purpose.
   
§ 247-46.   Standards for streetlight construction.
   
§ 247-47.   Standards for streetlights along existing public roads.
   
§ 247-48.   Violations and penalties.
ARTICLE VIII
Adopt-a-Street Program
   
§ 247-49.   Program established.
GENERAL REFERENCES
   Uniform construction codes — See
Ch. 115.
   Land development — See
Ch. 175.
   Soliciting in roadways — See
Ch. 204.
Article I.
Obstructions
[Adopted 9-13-1971 by Ord. No. 10-1971 as Art. III of Ch. 143 of the 1971 Code;
amended in its entirety 5-18-2015 by Ord. No. 008-2015]
§ 247-1. Placement of building materials and other obstructions; removal.
   No person or persons shall place or cause to be placed any cask, barrels,
boxes, building materials or obstructions of any kind whatever on any of the
sidewalks or in any of the public streets, roads or highways in said town,
without permission first obtained in writing from the Highway Committee.
§ 247-2. Obstruction of sidewalks by gates.
   No gate or gates shall be allowed to swing across or otherwise obstruct the
free passageway of any of the sidewalks in the town, under a like penalty as in
the preceding section.
§ 247-3. Recovering penalties.
   All penalties imposed by this article shall be sued for and recovered in an
action of debt in the name of the Treasurer of the town, to and for the use of
the town.
§ 247-4. Violations and penalties.
   A person convicted of violating any provision of this article shall be
subject to one or more of the following: a fine of not more than $1,000,
imprisonment for a period not to exceed 90 days or a period of community
service not to exceed 90 days.
Article II.
Snow and Ice Removal
[Adopted 9-13-1971 by Ord. No. 10-1971 as Ch. 137 of the 1971 Code; amended in
its entirety 5-18-2015 by Ord. No. 008-2015]
§ 247-5. Responsibility; time limit.
   The owner or owners, tenant or tenants on lands abutting or bordering upon
the paved sidewalks of the public streets, avenues and highways in the Town of
Hammonton shall remove or cause to be removed from the paved sidewalks in front
of or bordering on their said lands all snow and ice within 12 hours of
daylight after the same shall be formed or fall thereon.
§ 247-6. Noncompliance.
   In case such owner or owners, tenant or tenants of any land abutting or
bordering upon any public street, avenue or highway in said town shall neglect
or refuse to remove such snow or ice within 12 hours of daylight after the same
shall have fallen or formed, it shall be the duty of the officer having charge
of the streets and highways of said town to remove or cause to be removed such
snow and ice from the paved sidewalks in front of or bordering on such land.
§ 247-7. Costs.
   The cost paid and incurred by such officer for removing such snow and ice
from any paved sidewalk shall be by him/her certified to the Common Council,
which shall examine such certificate, and if found to be correct, shall cause
the cost as shown thereon to be charged against the lands abutting or bordering
such paved sidewalk; and the amount so charged shall forthwith become a lien
upon such lands and shall be added to and become and form part of the taxes
then next to be assessed and levied upon such lands, and shall be collected and
enforced according to law.
§ 247-8. Violations and penalties.
   Such owner or owners, tenant or tenants, for every neglect or refusal to
comply with the provisions of this article, shall also subject to one or more
of the following: a fine of not more than $1,000, imprisonment for a period not
to exceed 90 days or a period of community service not to exceed 90 days.
Article III.
Excavations and Openings
[Adopted 9-13-1971 by Ord. No. 10-1971 as Ch. 92 of the 1971 Code; 4-26-1982 by
Ord. No. 5-1982; 5-18-2015 by Ord. No. 008-2015]
§ 247-9. Definitions.
   For purposes of this article, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meanings given herein:
   APPLICANT
   Any person making written application to the Town Engineer for an excavation
permit hereunder.
   EMERGENCY
   Any unforeseen circumstances or occurrence, the existence of which
constitutes a clear and immediate danger to persons or properties.
   EXCAVATION
   The excavation or opening or any other work permitted under a permit and
required to be performed under this article.
   PERMITTEE
   Any person who has been granted and has in full force and effect a permit
issued hereunder.
   PERSON
   Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   STREET
   Any street, highway, sidewalk, alley or avenue or any other public way or
public ground in the Town of Hammonton and under the control of the Town of
Hammonton.
§ 247-10. Permit required; emergencies.
   A.   It shall be unlawful, except in an emergency as set forth in Subsection
B hereunder, for any person to engage in any of the following activities unless
such person shall first have obtained a permit therefor from the Town Clerk/
Administrator as herein provided:
      (1)   To dig up, excavate, tunnel, undermine or in any manner break up
any street.
      (2)   To make or cause to be made any excavation in or under the surface
of any street for any purpose.
      (3)   To place, deposit or leave upon any street any earth or other
excavated material obstructing or tending to interfere with the free use of the
street.
      (4)   To clear any town right-of-way of vegetation for the installation
of gravel material and/or construction of a bituminous concrete cartway.
      (5)   To perform any other operation on any street which in any manner
interferes with or disturbs the surface of such street.
   B.   In the event that any street, main, conduit or other utility
installation in or under any street, alley, sidewalk or public way shall burst,
break or otherwise be in such condition as to seriously endanger persons or
property, the owner of such sewer, main, conduit or other installation shall
immediately remedy such trouble and shall immediately take all such necessary
steps to make said location safe and secure. Such owner shall not, however,
begin making any permanent repairs to such street, alley or sidewalk until they
shall have secured a permit as hereinafter provided. Such permit shall be
applied for within five days after such break or other dangerous conditions
have developed, and the necessary permanent repairs to the street, alley or
sidewalk shall be made as directed by the Town Engineer and shall be completed
as soon as practicable after receipt of the permit.
§ 247-11. Application for permit.
   A.   A written application for the issuance of an excavation permit shall be
obtained from the Town Clerk/Administrator. The application shall state the
name and address of the applicant, the estimated dates of commencement,
completion and restoration of the excavation and such other data as may
reasonably be required by the Town Engineer.
   B.   Any plans or drawings attached to the application must be drawn by a
professional engineer of the State of New Jersey and must be drawn to a scale
sufficient to show clearly the proposed work. Plans shall show locations and
profiles if needed for all utilities within 25 feet of the proposed work, for
the full width of the public right-of-way, utility companies may use a non-
licensed engineer acceptable to the Town Engineer.
   C.   The permittee has the additional responsibility of obtaining a separate
permit in accordance with N.J.S.A. 2A:170-69.4 through 2A:170-69.6 when the
proposed excavation is located within 200 feet of a gas pipeline, and all
permits issued by the Town Engineer are subject to the issuance of said
separate permit. The applicant is further responsible for contacting all other
local utilities to determine whether any property or facilities of the
utilities are located in the vicinity of the proposed excavation site, and if
so, the applicant is obligated to comply with any statutes or regulations
pertaining thereto.
   D.   All permittees must call the New Jersey Utility Opening Service and
obtain clearances and mark-out locations before beginning excavation. A copy of
the utility mark out number shall be provided to the municipality for their
records as well as maintaining a copy on file at the work site.
§ 247-12. Issuance of permit; revocation.
   A.   Upon application and payment of the fees and deposits for which
provision is hereinafter made, the Town Engineer, in his/her discretion, may
authorize the municipal clerk to issue a permit to excavate or open the surface
of any town road. The permit shall state the name of the applicant, the
location of the opening, the number of days for which the permit shall remain
in force and the amount of the review and inspection escrow.
   B.   Any permits issued under this article may be revoked at any time by the
Town Engineer.
§ 247-13. Commencement of work; notice; backfilling and restoration of
pavement; traffic.
[Amended 5-15-2017 by Ord. No. 012-2017]
   A.   No openings shall be commenced or completed on weekends, holidays, or
outside the normal working hours of 7:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. without written
permission of the Engineer, and/or Business Administrator, Police Chief or his/
her authorized representative unless in case of emergency. Failure to provide
notice as required as stipulated herein may result in revocation of the permit
and issuance of a stop-work order. The applicant shall be responsible to pay
for all overtime costs incurred for inspection of work and for all required
traffic control.
   B.   Permits shall become null and void unless the work is commenced within
60 days of the issuance of said permit, unless an extension of time is granted
by the Town Engineer.
   C.   The applicant shall give a forty-eight-hour notice to the Town Engineer
or his/her duly authorized representative and the Hammonton Police Department
prior to making any road openings, except in cases of emergency as provided for
in §
247-10B. No opening shall be commenced on a Saturday, Sunday or a holiday
unless in cases of emergency. The failure of an applicant to provide the notice
required by this article shall authorize the engineer to direct that all work
shall cease for a period of 48 hours to permit the engineer to assign an
engineer to the project in question.
   D.   The applicant shall give twenty-four hour written notice to all
residences, businesses, and property owners located within the work zone area,
which includes any roadway section that will be closed to traffic (hereinafter
referred to as the "affected property owners"), prior to making any road
openings, except in cases of emergency as provided for in §
247-10B. The written notice shall provide the following information:
      (1)   Section of any roadways that will be closed;
      (2)   Reason for the roadway closures;
      (3)   Length of time the roadway closures will occur; and
      (4)   List of phone numbers and contact information to call in case of
questions or emergency.
   The applicant shall provide a list of all notices provided in accordance
with this §
247-13(D) to the Engineer, Business Administrator and/or designated Town
Official prior to the commencement of any work. The failure of an applicant to
provide the notice required by this Article shall authorize the engineer to
direct that all work shall cease for a period of twenty-four hours to permit
the applicant to provide the appropriate notices to all residences, businesses
and property owners.
   E.   The applicant shall provide the Engineer, Business Administrator and/or
designated Town Official, Police Chief, and all affected property owners
twenty-four hour advanced written notice of the applicant's work schedule. The
failure of an applicant to provide the notice required by this Article shall
authorize the engineer to direct that all work shall cease for a period of
twenty-four hours to permit the applicant to provide the appropriate notices to
all residences, businesses and property owners.
   F.   The applicant, on the day of the actual road closure, road opening and/
or commencement of any work, shall do the following:
      (1)   Knock on all resident and business doors within the work zone area
to make people aware of any road closure, the proposed work, and shall provide
the same information set forth in §
247-13(D) and §
247-13(E), and any other information that may be of benefit;
      (2)   Provide an explanation of any portion of any roadways that will be
opened to local traffic only;
      (3)   Make sure the blockage of any driveways is avoided to the greatest
extent possible;
      (4)   Make sure proper police traffic control, flaggers, etc., are placed
at critical locations to keep the public informed of closures, access, etc.
Flaggers are to be placed at all closures and intersections affected by the
closure. Every reasonable effort is to be made to facilitate the residents and
business requests during the closure;
      (5)   Make sure the Hammonton Public School Bus Coordinator, Toni Mazza
(609) 567-7078, is aware of any road closures particularly if access for school
children at times of pick-up and drop-off are impacted;
      (6)   Emergency access to properties within the section of road closure
must be provided;
      (7)   Avoid unnecessary idling of vehicles within the work zone area
where possible;
      (8)   Proper advance warning signs, cones, barrels, lights, etc., must be
provided to alert the general public of the work zone area and restrictions.
      (9)   The applicant's contractor is responsible to maintain a safe
environment for workers and the general public;
      (10)   Pictures of the affected areas are to be taken by the applicant's
contractor and provided to the Engineer, Business Administrator and/or
designated Town Official, both before and after the work is completed to ensure
the affected areas are returned to the same condition as before the work
commenced.
      The applicant shall create a checklist out of the processes and
procedures set forth in §
247-13(C), §
247-13(D), §
247-13(E) and this §
247-13(F), check off the items completed, sign and date the checklist and
provide same to the Engineer, Business Administrator and/or designated Town
Official on the day of the actual road closure and/or commencement of the work.
   G.   All openings must be backfilled immediately and temporary restoration
completed unless otherwise approved to provide for safe passage and in
accordance with applicable restoration standards of the ordinance or as
directed by the Engineer.
   H.   No work areas shall be closed to traffic without the approval of the
Town Engineer and approval from the Town Police Chief or authorized
representative. Proper signage and detour routes must be approved by the Police
Chief.
   I.   With the exception of an emergency, no permits will be issued for road
openings or any permanent restoration completed between December 15th and March
15th or where conditions exist due to severe weather, freeze and/or frost
without written permission from the Town Engineer and/or Public Works Manager
or Business Administrator.
   J.   Should a roadway opening permit be required between December 15th and
March 15th and during the months when Hot Mix Bituminous Concrete is
commercially unavailable, the trench or excavation surface shall be temporarily
restored using a sub-base, eight inches thick, of dense graded aggregate DGA
and a temporary paved surface course with UPM brand, or approved, equal to a
depth of six inches from the roadway surface and shall be graded and compacted
to meet the existing roadway surface grades.
§ 247-14. Fees; performance and maintenance guaranty.
   A.   A non-refundable, $250 base application fee shall be posted with the
Municipal Clerk prior to said application being forwarded to Town Engineer for
review and request for posting of escrow fees. Thereafter, activity fees will
be assessed based on the following schedule:
      Openings (In Pavement and Outside of Pavement)
         Base fee ($250.00) plus $75.00 per opening (Including trench for
boring or driving small diameter utility services)
      Directional boring and Cable Installation (In Pavement and Outside of
Pavement)
         Base fee ($250.00) plus $.50 per foot
   [Amended 10-24-2011 by Ord. No. 18-2011; 3-26-2018 by Ord. No. 012-2018]
   B.   Pole installation. No fee but drawings and a permit are required. No
inspection fee will be charged, unless conditions exist that warrant inspection
of the installation due to the close proximity of existing municipal utilities.
The Town Engineer shall recommend the amount to be posted with the town as an
inspection escrow.
   C.   Performance guaranty. No road opening permit shall be issued until a
satisfactory two year performance guaranty is posted with the Town Clerk/
Administrator according to the approval of construction estimates by the Town
Engineer. These performance guaranties shall be by performance bonds certified
checks or similar cash-equivalent guaranties with the exception of public
utility company guaranties, which may be annual performance bonds of an amount
approved by the Town Engineer, but in no case less than $50,000 and in a form
approved by the Town Solicitor and Risk Manager. Performance guaranties shall
be based upon current estimates of market values of required constructions for
the intended work.
   D.   Inspection fees. Inspection fees shall be estimated by the Town
Engineer based upon estimated field inspection expenses and review of the
application. Such fees shall be payable directly to the Town Clerk/
Administrator's office. No work shall commence until those fees have been
posted and cleared. It may be necessary to replenish the escrow to cover
unexpected costs associated with the work.
§ 247-15. Town to be saved harmless.
   The applicant, upon securing said permit, agrees that the Town of Hammonton
will be saved harmless from any and all claims of any nature arising out of the
construction of road and street opening work covered by said permit and further
that the Town of Hammonton, in issuing said permit, shall not assume liability
in connection therewith. In the event of any suit or claim against the town by
reason of the negligence or default of the permittee or for any other reason
directly or indirectly attributable to the permitee's work, upon the town's
giving written notice to the permittee of such suit or claim, any final
judgment against the town requiring it to pay for such damage shall be
conclusive upon the permittee, and the permittee shall be liable for the town's
costs in connection with such suit.
§ 247-16. Certificate of insurance required.
   Prior to performing any work under the permit, the permittee shall deliver
to the Town Engineer a certificate of insurance in the sum of not less than
$1,000,000 combined single limit (CSL) with the town and its agents and
employees named as an additional insured. Where applicable, the permittee shall
demonstrate that the explosion, collapse and underground (xcu) exclusion has
been removed from its insurance policy. The insurance carrier will not cancel
said insurance without giving the Town of Hammonton at least 30 days' notice
thereof in writing. The form and amount of the insurance coverage must be
approved by the town's Solicitor and Risk Manager.
§ 247-17. Maintenance of traffic flow.
   A.   The permittee shall take appropriate measures to assure that during the
performance of the excavation and restoration work traffic conditions as nearly
normal as practicable shall be maintained at all times so as to cause as little
inconvenience as possible to the occupants of the abutting property and to the
general public, provided that the Town Engineer, in coordination with the local
Police Department, may permit the closing of streets to all traffic for a
period of time prescribed by him/her if, in his/her opinion, it is necessary.
The permittee shall keep all road and street openings guarded at all times and
open no greater part of such road or street than shall be reasonably necessary
as determined by the Town Engineer and local Police Department. The permittee
shall route and control traffic, including its own vehicles, as directed by the
local Police Department. Before any highway may be closed or restricted to
traffic, the permittee must receive the approval of the Town Engineer and the
local Police Department. Upon completion of the construction work, the
permittee shall notify the Town Engineer and the local Police Department before
traffic is moved back to its normal flow so that any necessary adjustments may
be made.
   B.   The permittee must contact the local Police Chief or his/her authorized
representative relative to the need for Police Traffic Control in conjunction
with the work to be performed. If determined to be necessary, the permittee
shall be responsible for the cost to provide the Police Traffic Protection and
post the required fee, insurance coverage and other paperwork with the town
prior to the start of construction. Any barricades, drums, cones, signage or
similar warning structures required by the Police Department shall be provided
by the permittee at no cost to the town.
   C.   Where flag persons are deemed necessary by the Town Engineer or local
Police Department, they shall be furnished by the permittee at its own expense.
Through traffic shall be maintained without the aid of detours, if possible. In
instances in which this would not be feasible, the local Police Chief will
designate and approve detours to provide for the safe passage of vehicular
traffic.
   D.   The excavation work shall be performed and conducted so as not to
interfere with access to fire stations and fire hydrants. Materials or
obstructions shall not be placed within 15 feet of fire plugs. Passageways
leading to fire escapes or fire-fighting equipment shall be kept free of piles
of material and other obstructions.
§ 247-18. Safety requirements.
   The following measures shall be taken to ensure the safety and protection of
the traveling public:
   A.   All openings must be backfilled and temporary restoration completed
unless otherwise approved to provide for safe passage and in accordance with
applicable restoration standards.
   B.   If it is necessary to leave an excavation unfinished overnight or for
an extended period, the permittee shall place at the site barricades exhibiting
his/her name and a phone number where he/she can be reached at all times. The
permittee shall also notify the Hammonton Police Department of the condition of
the unfinished excavation and furnish said Police Department with his/her name
and phone number where he/she can be reached at all times. Flame torches,
flashers, barricades, drums, cones, signage or similar warning structures must
be used at the construction site or along the right-of-way, as required by the
Town Engineer, Chief of Police or his/her representative.
   C.   Any portions of work areas not closed to traffic must be temporarily
patched with cold patch a minimum of two inches thick and properly maintained
until either temporary or final paving is installed.
   D.   The permittee shall erect and maintain suitable timber barriers to
confine earth from trenches or other excavation in order to encroach upon
highways as little as possible.
   E.   The permittee shall construct and maintain adequate and safe crossings
over excavations and across highways under improvement to accommodate vehicular
and pedestrian traffic at all street intersections. Vehicular crossings shall
be constructed and maintained of steel plates or of plank, timbers and blocking
of adequate size to accommodate vehicular traffic safely. Timber decking shall
be not less than four inches thick and shall be securely fastened. Pedestrian
walkways, if of timber, shall consist of planking three inches thick, 12 inches
wide (per individual plank) and of adequate length, together with necessary
blocking. The walkway shall not be less than five feet in width and shall be
provided with a railing as required by the Town Engineer and/or the local
Police Department.
[Amended 7-23-2001 by Ord. No. 26-2001]
§ 247-19. Specifications for restoration of road.
   It is the expressed desire of the town to limit roadway disturbance to the
greatest extent possible and to complete all restorations in such a manner as
to provide for a stable and safe roadway, sidewalk, shoulder and/or lawn area
acceptable to the town and to the reasonable satisfaction of the adjacent
property owners.
   A.   Restoration Limits and Type - The type, thickness, and extent of any
roadway restoration shall be as directed by the Town Engineer depending on the
following conditions:
      (1)   Condition and classification of the existing roadway or right-of-
way (ROW).
      (2)   Length of time since the roadway was last resurfaced.
      (3)   The extent (length, width, depth) of the proposed disturbance and
restoration.
      (4)   Type of utility installation that will occur.
      (5)   The amount of proposed roadway openings, test pits and/or pilot
holes which are completed within the roadway surface.
      (6)   In order to avoid unnecessary roadway pavement, sidewalk, shoulder
area or disturbance to existing municipal utilities and service lines, the use
of directional drill, borings, blowpipe or other acceptable means of utility
installation shall be employed wherever possible,
   B.   In order to provide for proper trench compaction in accordance with
NJDOT Standards, trenches shall be backfilled with clean backfill free of clay
and debris in layers not to exceed 12 inches and a vibratory tamper or similar
equipment shall be used to provide satisfactory compaction of the trench area
to reduce the potential for settlement. Should there be a deficiency of
suitable fill, additional backfill material shall be supplied. Whenever the
Town Engineer or his/her duly authorized representative shall deem the material
unsatisfactory for backfill, the permittee shall provide acceptable material
for the backfill.
   C.   In all cases where the road or street is to be excavated, the permittee
is obligated to restore said road or street to the construction standards noted
in Section
247-20 in compliance with NJDOT standards and as directed by the Engineer. In
all cases of excavation or milling of the final surface course pavement, the
existing bituminous surface shall be neatly saw cut straight through the
existing bituminous surface, one foot wider on all sides than the initial
excavation to allow the final surface pavement to be placed on undisturbed sub-
base material. The final restoration must be completed to encompass all areas
disturbed during the utility installation to ensure that a stable trench
restoration is accomplished. The final restoration limits will be determined in
the field with the Town Engineer or an authorized representative of the town
and the contractor.
   D.   After backfill, the trench will be inspected by the Town Engineer or
his/her representative, and he/she will determine the extent of resurfacing
necessary, i.e., trench area only, half lane width or restoration of the entire
roadway width for a specified width and length on each side of the opening. In
the event that the roadway has been resurfaced by the town during the previous
five years, the Town Engineer shall require full lane width or full roadway
width restoration for a distance of ten feet on each side of the roadway
opening unless otherwise approved by the Mayor and Town Council.
   E.   All saw cut edges of the existing bituminous surface shall be tact
coated and sealed to form a water tight flexible seal between the two roadway
surfaces.
   F.   In the case of a trench or opening in the grass shoulder, the applicant
shall restore the top four inches of the trench with material capable of
supporting the growth of grass and shall fertilize and seed said surface to
provide a stable stand of grass satisfactory to the affected property owner and
Town Engineer.
   G.   Whenever required by the Town Engineer, requests for service lateral
installations which require crossing the existing paved surface shall be
performed utilizing a driven, board or other approved methodology for
completion of pipe installation under the paved portion of the road or street
without disturbing the surface.
   H.   Road openings and/or trenches involving unusual or special conditions
shall be restored in accordance with and pursuant to the direction of the Town
Engineer or his/her representative.
   I.   Within 48 hours of the anticipated commencing of final restoration
work, the applicant shall request an inspection by the Town Engineer at which
time the Town Engineer will determine whether the road restoration was
completed in a satisfactory manner or will require additional road restoration.
However, inspection escrow fees will be held until a subsequent inspection is
made by the Town Engineer within one year and again after two years of
completion of the permanent roadway, shoulder, sidewalk or lawn restoration,
but no later than two years from the inspection date of the permanent paving
restoration. At that time the Town Engineer may require additional road
restoration to be completed by the applicant prior to release of the inspection
escrow fees or shall request the Municipal Clerk to release any remaining
escrow fees, project, performance, maintenance bonds, and other surety to the
applicant if said restoration is deemed satisfactory. The onus of requesting
inspections and release of escrow fees remains on the applicant.
[Amended 10-24-2011 by Ord. No. 18-2011]
   J.   In any case where the contractor has not complied with these
regulations to the satisfaction of the Town Engineer or his/her representative,
the Engineer, upon providing requisite notice to the bond company or
immediately if, in the sole opinion of the engineer, a public emergency exists
without notice, may cause the work to be done, and the cost shall be deducted
from the performance bond posted by the applicant. If no bond has been posted,
the applicant shall be personally responsible to reimburse the town for that
cost and, failing that, the town shall have the power to impose a lien upon the
property in question.
§ 247-20. Standards for existing town roads or right-of-ways.
   A.   Off-street rights-of-way shall be improved to the following standards:
      (1)   Fill.
         (a)   Fill shall be clean with no organic content and free of roots,
stumps, clay, or similar material capable of providing a stable compacted
trench area as per NJDOT standards.
         (b)   Fill shall be compacted with proper equipment over fill areas
and regraded to the prior surface grade or sub-base grade.
      (2)   Lawn Surface. Lawn surface area shall be returned to its original
grade and condition by replacing topsoil four inches thick, seeding, sodding,
planting and/or compacting, as required by the Town Engineer to the
satisfaction of the affected property owner.
   B.   Bituminous concrete streets shall be improved to the following
standards:
      (1)   Fill.
         (a)   Fill shall be clean with no organic content and free of roots,
stumps, clay or similar material capable of providing a stable compacted sub-
base as per NJDOT standards.
         (b)   Eighty-five-percent compaction shall be provided in fill areas
through:
            [1]   One-foot fill over underground utilities and hand or
mechanical tamping as required along the sides of any pipe installation proper
for a stable sub-base as per NJDOT standards.
            [2]   One-foot lifts individually compacted by hand or mechanical
tamping as per NJDOT standards.
      (2)   Sub-base. Gravel or dense graded aggregate (DGA) sub-base shall be
eight inches thick of compacted road aggregate, Type 2, Class A, Class B or
dense graded aggregate (DGA) compliant with NJDOT standards.
      (3)   Temporary pavement restoration.
         (a)   The temporary patch pavement restoration shall be at least six
inches thick measured after rolling, of cold patch, Type R-R, applied in one
layer and rolled to compaction.
         (b)   The type of material used for the temporary patch restoration
shall be Hot Mixed Asphalt (HMA) 19M64 or an equivalent base course.
         (c)   The finished grade shall be brought to the original street grade
or slightly above same to allow for trench settlement.
         (d)   The temporary pavement restoration shall remain in place for a
minimum of three months, at which time the level of temporary restoration shall
be removed or cut back or milled to a depth of two and one half inches below
the original street grade and section to allow for the permanent pavement
restoration.
         [Amended 3-26-2018 by Ord. No. 012-2018]
      (4)   Permanent pavement restoration.
         (a)   The temporary patch pavement restoration shall remain in place
for a minimum of four months, at which time the level of cold patch temporary
restoration shall be removed or cut back or milled to a depth of two and one
half inches below the original street grade and section to allow for the
permanent pavement restoration.
         (b)   The width of the permanent pavement restoration shall be
extended for a minimum of one foot on each side beyond the limits of the
temporary pavement restoration and shall be saw-cut or milled to form straight
stable edge of the existing bituminous surface.
         (c)   All struck edges and the overlapping surface edge shall be
coated with an asphaltic cement to bind the bituminous concrete to the
surrounding existing bituminous concrete.
         (d)   The permanent pavement restoration shall be HMA 95M64, 12M64 or
an equivalent surface course applied as specified by the Town Engineer.
         (e)   Newly restored bituminous surfaces shall be at least two and one
half inches thick following compaction and level with the original grade and
section.
         (f)   All saw-cut edges of the existing bituminous surface shall be
tact coated and sealed to form a water tight flexible seal between the two
roadway surfaces.
      (5)   Concrete Curb/Sidewalk/Driveway Restoration.
         (a)   All concrete restoration work shall comply with applicable
standards of the Town Ordinance for said concrete construction and in
accordance with NJDOT standards.
      (6)   Lawn Surface. Lawn surface area shall be returned to its original
grade and condition by replacing with topsoil four inches thick, seeding,
sodding, planting and/or compacting as required by the Town Engineer to the
reasonable satisfaction of the affected property owner.
§ 247-21. Specifications for dedicated but unopened streets.
   A.   The clearing of the proposed street or public right-of-way shall
conform with § 247-20A(1) and (2). All grading shall be done to the full right-
of-way width on the proposed street or public right-of-way.
   B.   The base for all streets or public rights-of-way shall be a minimum
six-inch compacted road aggregate, Type 2, Class A, Class B or an equivalent,
or dense graded aggregate (DGA) compliant with NJDOT standards and shall be 3/
5 of the width of the right-of-way or as approved by the Town Engineer.
   C.   All proposed streets or public rights-of-way shall be paved to 3/5 of
the right-of-way width or as approved by the Town Engineer, with construction
materials discussed with the Town Engineer and as approved by the governing
body. In general, minimal quality paving shall be Hot Mixed Asphalt surfacing
consistent with applicable NJDOT standards. Construction standards established
in §
247-20 shall be applicable, except that patching on temporary pavement is not
required.
   D.   No proposed street or public right-of-way constructed, reconstructed or
improved shall have a grade of less than 1/2 of 1%. Should grades be less than
½ of 1% concrete gutter minimum 18 inches wide shall be installed per NJDOT
standards. No gutter line grades less than 0.4% shall be considered.
   E.   No proposed street or public right-of-way shall be constructed,
reconstructed or improved to carry water for more than 500 feet on the surface,
and the water shall not be brought back to the surface until it reaches its
disposal areas.
   F.   Each plan submitted shall have a letter attached from a licensed
professional engineer describing the proposed drainage plan and associated
storm water recharge areas as required and shall comply with applicable design
and construction standards of the town, NJDOT and the Pinelands Commission.
   G.   Other improvements, such as curbs, gutters, sidewalks, and/or
driveways, may be required by the governing body to ensure that the proposed
street complies with proposed or existing improvements in the adjoining
neighborhood. The governing body's decision shall be final in determining the
need for these improvements.
   H.   Upon completion of the utility, roadway, storm sewer pipe and storm
water storage/recharge system, the Design Engineer shall provide an as-built
plan and certification of the proposed improvements as per applicable Town
Ordinance standards.
   I.   The applicant shall be responsible to post review and inspection escrow
fees, performance and maintenance bonds for said improvements as per applicable
Town Ordinance standards.
§ 247-22. Protection of newly paved roadways.
[Added 2-9-1998 by Ord. No. 6-1998; amended 5-22-2000 by Ord. No. 12-2000]
   A.   The purpose of this section is to amend Ordinance No. 6-1998 which was
adopted to protect the integrity of newly paved and constructed roadways within
the Town of Hammonton and set forth a time period during which excavation and
road opening permits shall not be permitted or issued. This amendment is
intended to take into consideration and promote construction in areas where
municipal utility extensions, repairs, or replacements have been made as well
as in areas where a newly paved roadway surface has been completed.
   B.   Applicability. The limitations outlined herein shall be applicable to
all contractors, utilities, and others who may apply for excavation and road
opening permits within the Town of Hammonton except in the case of emergency as
defined elsewhere within these standards.
   C.   Period of moratorium.
      (1)   There shall be established a period of 60 months from the date of
completion and acceptance of any roadway reconstructed and funded through the
use of NJDOT Municipal Aid or Discretionary Aid Programs. The only exception
shall be in the case of an emergency which threatens the health, safety and
welfare of the citizens of the Town of Hammonton.
      (2)   There shall be established a period of 60 months from the date of
completion and acceptance of a newly paved, constructed or reconstructed
roadway associated with a municipal utility extension, repair, or replacement
except in the following cases:
         (a)   New home, commercial or industrial construction on a previously
vacant parcel of land, and subject to the review and approval by the Mayor and
Town Council related to said request.
         (b)   In the case of an emergency which would threaten the health,
safety and welfare of the citizens of the Town of Hammonton.
   D.   Conditions and requirements for roadway opening and restoration where
an exception or emergency roadway opening is granted.
      (1)   Should an exception or emergency roadway opening request be granted
during the stipulated moratorium period, as stated herein above, the following
restoration requirements apply:
         (a)   All initial openings shall be saw cut for maximum dimension of
two feet by four feet and an additional one foot wide on each side of the
initial temporary trench for final restoration purposes. If the roadway cannot
accommodate these dimensions, a full lane or full roadway restoration, in the
discretion of the municipal engineer, shall be required.
         (b)   The trench shall be backfilled with clean fill, free of clay and
debris and compacted in 12-inch lifts to the satisfaction of the engineer
unless otherwise stipulated.
         (c)   The typical sub-base, base and surface course restoration should
be consistent with the following:
            [1]   Option #1:
               [a]   Dense graded aggregate DGA, eight inches thick.
               [b]   Hot Mixed Asphalt (HMA) 19.M64, 12M64 or an equivalent
base course two and one-half inches thick.
               [c]   Hot Mixed Asphalt (HMA) 9.5 M64, 12M64 or an equivalent
surface course two and one half inches thick.
            [2]   The above noted restorations will require that asphaltic oil
be applied to the joint as a waterproof seal abutting the old and new pavement
surfaces.
   E.   Twenty-four month maintenance warranty and guaranty shall apply after
permanent pavement restoration has been satisfactorily completed. Should
settlement of the restored pavement area occur within a two year period from
the date of permanent pavement restoration, the contractor shall be required to
mill and/or excavate and repair the area to the satisfaction of the Town
Engineer and Roadway Supervisor consistent with the provisions of this article
or as directed by the Engineer.
§ 247-23. Violations and penalties.
[Amended 5-15-2017 by Ord. No. 012-2017]
   A.   Any person who shall violate any provisions of this article, for each
offense, shall be subject to one or more of the following: a fine of not more
than $2,000, imprisonment for a period not to exceed 90 days or a period of
community service not to exceed 90 days, and each day's continuance of such
violation shall constitute a separate offense.
   B.   In addition to the violations and penalties set forth in §
247-23(A) above, any person who shall violate any provisions of this Article
shall be subject to the issuance of a stop work order on all present and
scheduled projects until the Town is satisfied, in its sole discretion, that
this Article III will be followed.
Article IV.
Construction of Curbs and Sidewalks Required by Persons Constructing
Residential or Commercial Buildings
[Adopted 9-13-1971 by Ord. No. 10-1971 as Art. IV of Ch. 143 of the 1971 Code;
amended in its entirety 5-18-2015 by Ord. No. 008-2015]
§ 247-24. Construction of curbs and sidewalks required; costs.
[Amended 5-16-2016 by Ord. No. 010-2016]
   It is hereby determined to be in the public interest that all persons
constructing (as defined in §
175-10 "Construction") any residential or commercial buildings or engaged in
development (as defined in §
175-10 "Development") within the Town of Hammonton shall build simultaneously
with said construction and/or development curbs and sidewalks on the area of
the premises fronting on public roads of the Town of Hammonton, and that the
cost of the said curbs and sidewalks shall be borne by the abutting property
owners.
§ 247-25. Submission of plans and specifications.
[Amended 5-16-2016 by Ord. No. 010-2016]
   No person, partnership, corporation or group of persons shall construct any
residential or commercial building or engage in development within the Town of
Hammonton without providing for the construction of curbs and sidewalks on all
roads upon which the affected property fronts, and such person, partnership,
corporation or group of persons who shall henceforth apply for a permit to
construct said building shall present to the Construction Code Official of the
Town of Hammonton, with the plans and specifications as to the building to be
constructed, plans and specifications showing the proposed construction of said
curbs and sidewalks consistent with the provisions contained in the town's lot
grading Ordinance #31-2005 of the Town of Hammonton. No certificate of
occupancy shall be issued by the Building Inspector for the building so
constructed until the curbs and sidewalks provided for in the plans and
specifications have been satisfactorily completed at the applicant's expense.
§ 247-26. Provisions where no road grade has been established; certification.
   Should an application be made for a building permit to construct a
residential or commercial building in any area of the Town of Hammonton where
no road grade has been established, any other provisions in this article
notwithstanding, the applicant shall not be required to submit the plans and
specifications for the construction of curbs and sidewalks with application for
the building permit, but shall, in lieu thereof, proceed in accordance with the
variance procedure for the placement of curb and sidewalk as stipulated under
section
247-27 of the ordinance and file a certification with the Building Inspector
consenting to the curbs and sidewalks being constructed by the municipality on
all roads upon which said property fronts, upon the grade of the road, or part
thereof, being legally established, or at such future time as the municipality
shall elect to install curbs and sidewalks, and said certification shall
contain therein the consent of the applicant to the municipality so installing
said curbs and sidewalks at the applicant's expense at such future time as the
municipality elects to do so and the grade is legally established. This
certification shall be a covenant running with the land and shall be binding on
all purchasers or possessors in interest, heirs or legal representatives of the
applicant. Should the municipality at a future date elect to install curbs and
sidewalks along the affected road where no grade is legally established at the
time of the application as an improvement assessed against the abutting
property owners in the area, said application shall be considered for all
purposes as an irrevocable authorization to the Town Clerk/Administrator to
vote said front for the assessment of benefits proposal. Upon the said curb and
sidewalk improvements being subsequently installed, the cost shall be assessed
against the property owner in the same manner as all other municipal
improvements. In the event of failure to pay the proportionate share of the
cost of the improvements, a lien may be assessed against the subject premises.
§ 247-27. Curb/sidewalk waiver request provisions.
[Amended 5-16-2016 by Ord. No. 010-2016]
   The primary function of concrete curbs and sidewalks shall be to provide for
safe pedestrian movement throughout various parts of the town. Unless
specifically waived by the Planning Board or Zoning Board, curbs/sidewalks
shall be installed along all streets for all types of development within the
Town of Hammonton.
   A.   For the purpose of this section, the town shall be divided into three
curb/sidewalk areas to provide flexible curb/sidewalk requirements and
encourage a functional and usable curb/sidewalk system. The areas will be
referenced by zoning districts as designated on the current zoning map for the
town that fall within the Pineland Town boundary designation.
      (1)   Curb/Sidewalk Area #1 shall consist of the following zone districts
as depicted on current zoning map for the town: All Downtown DT-1 through DT-4,
all Gateway, GW-1 through GW-3, R-1, R-2, M2-A, R-3A and the HB, Highway
Business Districts. Curb/Sidewalk Area #1 includes those portions of the town
where the highest pedestrian traffic is anticipated. The continuation of the
existing curb/sidewalk system is, therefore, very important for the safe
movement of pedestrians and also allows connections to existing and future
pedestrian traffic generators, downtown and commercial corridor businesses,
parks, public transportation and residential segments.
      (2)   Curb/Sidewalk Area #2 generally includes those portions of the town
located just beyond the more heavily developed Curb/Sidewalk Area #1 and shall
include the following Zoning Districts: M1, M2 and R3. Because of the proximity
to schools and existing future pedestrian traffic generators, transit
facilities and parks, the need for curbs/sidewalks in these areas is high.
      (3)   Curb/Sidewalk Area #3 consists of all lands within the RR (Rural
Residential) and REC (Recreational Zone Districts) Curb/Sidewalk Area #3 is
similar to Curb/Sidewalk Area #2, with the exception that the maximum permitted
residential densities are lower. The need for curbs/sidewalks is high in the
vicinity of pedestrian traffic generators, schools, parks and transit
facilities and commercial corridors, etc.
   B.   The requirements of this section relating to the construction of curb/
sidewalks may be modified and/or waived by the Planning Board or Zoning Board,
if requested by the applicant/developer, upon the Board's determination that
both the area to be developed and the entire town would be better served by
waiving the requirement for the installation of curb and sidewalk. The Planning
Board or Zoning Board shall have sole jurisdiction to waive curb and/or
sidewalks. The Planning Board shall hear all applications for a waiver in cases
where no subdivision or site plan application is involved. The Planning Board
or Zoning Board shall review such requests taking into consideration §
247-27(A)(1-3), the location, topography and particular characteristics of the
land in relation to the Master Plan and Land Development Ordinances of the Town
of Hammonton.
   C.   Where the requirements of this section relating to the construction of
curb/sidewalks have been waived by the Planning Board or Zoning Board, a ten-
foot-wide cleared and graded area (parallel to the roadway) shall be provided,
partly to provide for pedestrian safety and partly to provide area for future
curb/sidewalk construction if the need arises. The composition of the graded
area shall be at the discretion of the Planning Board or Zoning Board.
   D.   A 12-foot wide pedestrian easement perpendicular to the roadway may be
required by the Planning Board or Zoning Board through the center of blocks
more than 600 feet long to provide circulation or access to schools,
playgrounds, shopping or other community facilities.
   E.   The Town Engineer has the right to increase the dimensions referenced
in paragraphs C and D above for unusual configurations and/or the requirement
for additional circulation with a commensurate increase in the cost.
   F.   Material and construction. Walks shall be constructed of portland
cement concrete. Concrete shall be Class C having a 28-day compressive strength
of 4,000 pounds per square inch, unless otherwise stipulated by the governing
body having jurisdiction over the affected roadway frontage.
   G.   Joint fillers shall be of the preformed bituminous cellular type and
preformed bituminous type.
   H.   Dimensions of the concrete walks shall be at least five feet wide and
at least four inches in thickness, except at points of vehicular crossing where
the minimum thickness shall be six inches.
   I.   The walks shall be located at least five feet back from the curbface.
   J.   Expansion joints shall be provided with filler materials not more than
20 feet apart.
   K.   Transverse surface grooves shall be cut in the walk between expansion
joints at intervals equal to the walk width.
   L.   All edges shall be neatly rounded to 1/4 inch.
   M.   The finish shall be made with a wood float, followed by brushing with a
wet soft-hair brush to a neat and workmanlike surface.
   N.   Handicap ramps shall be provided at all intersections and other areas
of expected pedestrian crossing in accordance with the latest NJDOT and ADA
standards.
   O.   The walk shall be gently graded toward the gutter line with a slope of
2%.
   P.   For any development or developments not involving subdivision or site
plan review, if the requirements pertaining to the installation of curbs/
sidewalks in a specific area are impractical or exact undue hardship to an
applicant due to peculiar or unusual conditions of the land in question, the
applicant may apply for a waiver of the requirements set forth in this chapter.
Public notice shall not be required.
   Q.   The approval to allow for the developer/applicant to receive a curb/
sidewalk waiver does not relieve the developer/applicant and owner from
entering into an agreement with the town that, should the municipality at a
future date elect to install curbs and sidewalks along the affected road, said
applicant and owner shall give an irrevocable authorization which shall be
binding on any future owner to the Town Clerk/Administrator to vote his/her
front footage for the assessment of benefits proposal, which authorization
shall run with the land (with the cost of any recording of same to be borne by
the applicant). Upon the curb and sidewalk improvements being subsequently
installed in front of his/her premises pursuant to an assessment of benefits
procedure, the cost shall be assessed against the property owner in the same
manner as all other municipal improvements.
§ 247-28. Violations and penalties.
Editor's Note: Former § 247-28, Critical area, and former § 247-29, Curbs and
sidewalks outside of critical area, both adopted 4-24-1989 by Ord. No. 12-1989,
were repealed 9-27-2010 by Ord. No. 22-2010. This ordinance also renumbered
former § 247-30 as §
247-28. A person convicted of violating any provision of this article shall be
subject to one or more of the following: a fine of not more than $1,000,
imprisonment for a period not to exceed 90 days or a period of community
service not to exceed 90 days.
§ 247-29. through § 247-30. (Reserved)
Article V.
Construction of Rights-of-Way in Subdivisions and Multifamily Housing Projects
[Adopted 9-13-1971 by Ord. No. 10-1971 as Art. V of Ch. 143 of the 1971 Code;
amended in its entirety 5-18-2015 by Ord. No. 008-2015]
§ 247-31. Restrictions on applications.
   No person, firm or corporation shall hereafter apply for any subdivision
approval by the Planning Board or for any approval by any governmental
subdivision of the Town of Hammonton for a multifamily construction project
under this article, for any subdivision which fronts on, or requires the use
of, any street that is not any of the following:
   A.   Constructed, paved and improved to the standards hereinafter set forth.
   B.   A publicly maintained street under the jurisdiction and control of the
Town of Hammonton, County of Atlantic or State of New Jersey.
   C.   A public dedicated right-of-way which does not conform to Subsections A
and B hereof.
§ 247-32. Definitions.
   As used in this article, the following terms shall have the meanings
indicated:
   MULTIFAMILY CONSTRUCTION
   Any apartment or condominium complex or combination of same which consists
of rentable or sellable units on one tract of ground or one or more adjoining
tracts of ground, consistent with the definitions contained within the town's
land development ordinance.
   PUBLIC DEDICATED RIGHT-OF-WAY
   Any road, whether opened or unopened, which has been dedicated by any prior
act of a property owner or developer which shows as a street on any filed map
and which appears on the Tax Duplicate Map of the Town of Hammonton, as well as
any street shown on any sketch plat introduced with the application for
subdivision approval by the applicant to the Planning Board of the Town of
Hammonton relating to the application under consideration.
§ 247-33. Permit required for construction or improving of rights-of-way.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall apply for subdivision approval to
the Planning Board or for any approval by any governmental subdivision of the
Town of Hammonton for a multifamily construction project under this article,
which proposed subdivision fronts on or requires the use of any dedicated
public right-of-way not covered within §
247-31A or B of this article, shall only be permitted to construct, pave or
improve said dedicated public right-of-way upon first submitting an application
in duplicate to the Town Clerk/Administrator of the Town of Hammonton, which
application shall request the issuance of a permit for the construction,
reconstruction, paving, repaving or improving of any portion of said dedicated
public right-of-way consistent with applicable town standards.
§ 247-34. Conditions for permit approval.
   No permit shall be issued for said street improvements, as set forth in §
247-33 above, by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton until
the following conditions are met:
   A.   A permit shall not be issued by the Mayor and Common Council until such
person, firm or corporation has submitted to the Mayor and Common Council a
plan or plans drawn by a licensed professional engineer showing existing grades
or contours and proposed grades of streets, proposed typical cross sections of
streets, right-of-way widths and construction widths, drainage scheme and
description of all materials to be used in the construction and the proposed
method of construction of said street or public right-of-way. Said plans shall
be accompanied by a letter from said engineer describing in detail the proposed
drainage plan for all surface water along the dedicated right-of-way referred
to in said subdivision. The storm water storage/recharge system shall be
consistent with applicable Town and Pinelands Commission regulations.
   B.   Said plans as set forth in Subsection A of §
247-34 of this article shall be submitted to the Town Engineer for review and
approval before any permit shall be issued by the Mayor and Common Council. The
Town Engineer shall have the right to recommend to the Mayor and Common Council
that any of the requirements within this section may be waived where said
Engineer gives the Town of Hammonton a written opinion that such waiver will
not impair the street plan of the Town of Hammonton or future street
development within said town and that the granting of such a waiver is not
against the public interest. The Mayor and Common Council shall have the sole
discretion to determine whether such a waiver shall be granted and to what
extent, once a recommendation of waiver is received from the Town Engineer.
   C.   No permit will be issued by the Mayor and Common Council until a
satisfactory performance bond with sufficient sureties, or in the amount of
120% of the Town Engineer's estimate of cost, is posted with the Town of
Hammonton, approved as to form and sureties by the Solicitor and Risk Manager,
or a cash deposit equivalent. All bonds shall guarantee completion in three
years.
   D.   The Town Engineer reserves the right to set the time limits for the
proposed construction, reconstruction, paving, repaving or improving of any
street or public right-of-way within the town limits. The applicant shall also
be responsible to post a review and inspection escrow account with the town to
cover all costs associated with the proposed improvements.
   E.   The clearing of the proposed street or public right-of-way shall
conform to the New Jersey State Highway Department Standard Specifications for
Road and Bridge Construction 1961, Article 2.1.1, 2.1.3 entitled "Clearing
Site." All grading will be done to the full right-of-way width on the said
proposed street or public right-of-way.
   F.   The base for all streets or public rights-of-way shall be road gravel
or Dense Graded Aggregate (DGA), compacted to a depth of six inches, and shall
be 3/5 of the width of the right-of-way or as approved by the Town Engineer.
   G.   All proposed streets or public rights-of-way shall be paved to 3/5 of
the right-of-way width or as approved by the Town Engineer with type Hot Mixed
Asphalt (HMA) material in compliance with the New Jersey State Highway
Department Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction 1961,
Article 2.2A.1, 3.2A.2, 3.2A.3 entitled "Bituminous Stabilized Base Course,"
except that the gravel mix stones shall be no larger than 1/2 inch. The type of
material and thickness shall be consistent with applicable Town Road
Improvement standards.
   H.   All proposed streets or public rights-of-way shall have gutters where
said roadway grades are less than 0.5% and shall be constructed six inches
thick and 18 inches wide of Class B concrete (State Highway Specifications) and
shall be constructed in accordance with the New Jersey State Highway Department
Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction 1961, Article 5.4.1,
5.4.2, 5.4.3 entitled "Gutters." No gutter grade shall be less than 0.4%.
   I.   All proposed streets or public rights-of-way shall have curbs six
inches by eight inches by 18 inches of Class B concrete (State Highway
Specifications) and shall be constructed to conform with the New Jersey State
Highway Department Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction
1961, Article 5.5.1, 5.5.2, 5.5.3 entitled "Curbs and Headers."
   J.   Streets shall have sidewalks four inches thick and five feet wide and
shall be constructed of Class C concrete (State Highway Specifications), except
in the area of concrete driveways and where the thickness will be increased to
six inches minimum.
   K.   All applicants for a permit shall have the right, where the sidewalks
on the streets are to be improved and opened in compliance with the above
standards, to delay the installation of sidewalks for a period not to exceed
the term of the bond, in those parts of the subdivision where residential
construction is to occur, until such time as the lots in question are sold or
until construction is commenced by the subdivider of the house or other
structure to be built on the premises or until such time as the developer, in
the case of multifamily construction, is ready to commence the construction of
the complex, unless it is determined that said installation is required to
address drainage, soil erosion, or public safety concerns.
   L.   No proposed street or public right-of-way constructed, reconstructed,
paved, repaved or improved shall have a grade of less then 4/10 of 1%.
   M.   No proposed street or public right-of-way shall be constructed,
reconstructed, paved, repaved, repaired or improved as to carry water for more
than 500 feet on the surface, and said water shall not be brought back to the
surface until it reaches its disposal area consistent with applicable town
standards.
   N.   The requirements as hereinabove set forth within this section shall
apply to all dedicated rights-of-way, whether opened or unopened, which are not
improved to the standards set forth herein and which will be required to handle
the traffic flow from or to said subdivision and which have not been subject to
prior acceptance by the Town of Hammonton, County of Atlantic or State of New
Jersey as public streets, with the exception of those streets designated as
private lanes and qualifying as private lanes within
Chapter 175, Land Development. 2
§ 247-35. Certification of installation of public utilities.
   A certification from the applicant must be presented to the Mayor and Common
Council that all public utilities have been installed prior to construction of
the street's surface being commenced.
§ 247-36. Payment of inspection fees and related costs.
   The subdivider shall pay to the Town Clerk/Administrator into a special
escrow account an amount equal to 5% of the Town Engineer's estimate of cost
for the completion of roadway, utility drainage and restoration improvements,
which amount shall be used to cover all inspection fees and related costs of
the Town Engineer and all other town officials for services rendered relating
to the applicant's application.
§ 247-37. Violations and penalties.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of this
article shall for each offense be subject to one or more of the following: a
fine of not more than $1,000, imprisonment for a period not to exceed 90 days
or a period of community service not to exceed 90 days, and each day's
continuance of such violation shall constitute a separate offense.
Article VI.
Sidewalk and Curb Construction and Maintenance
[Adopted 3-27-2000 by Ord. No. 7-2000; amended in its entirety 5-18-2015 by
Ord. No. 008-2015]
§ 247-38. Premises owner to maintain sidewalks and curbs.
   The owner of any premises in the Town of Hammonton abutting a sidewalk or
curb shall, at his/her own expense, keep and maintain such sidewalk or curb in
good condition and state of repair and shall not permit the same to fall into a
state of disrepair or to become unfit or unsafe to walk upon. In the event that
such sidewalk or curb or any part thereof becomes unsafe or hazardous to the
public or unfit to walk upon, the abutting owner, at his/her own cost and
expense, shall forthwith reconstruct or repair, as the facts may require, such
sidewalk or curb or that part thereof which requires reconstruction or repair.
This article shall not apply to situations where, in an approved subdivision, a
developer is required to install curbs and sidewalks and where responsibilities
for construction and maintenance are more particularly delineated in the
Chapter 175, Land Development.
§ 247-39. Notice to owner of unsafe condition.
   Where, in the opinion of the Code Enforcement Officer, Town Engineer or the
Highway Department Superintendent, a sidewalk or curb is in an unsafe or
hazardous condition, either shall inform the Town Council which shall by
resolution authorize a notice in writing to be served upon the owners or
occupant of said lands, requiring the necessary specified work to said curb or
sidewalk to be done; by said owner or occupant within the period not less than
30 days from the date of service of said notice. Whenever any lands are
occupied and the owner cannot be found within the town, said notice may be
mailed, postage prepaid, to his or her post office address as it is ascertained
from the latest tax rolls of the Town of Hammonton. In a case where an owner is
a nonresident of the municipality or his or her post office address cannot be
ascertained, then a notice may be inserted for four weeks, once a week in the
official newspaper of the Town of Hammonton.
§ 247-40. Failure to comply; work to be done by town.
   In the case where the owner or occupant of such lands shall not comply with
the requirements of such notice, it shall be lawful for the Public Works
Superintendent, upon filing due proof of service or publications of the
aforesaid notice, to cause the required work to be done and paid for out of the
town funds available for that purpose. The cost of such work shall be certified
by the Public Works Superintendent to the Town Engineer who shall verify the
same and return it over to the Tax Collector. Upon filing these said
certificates, the amount of the cost of such work shall be and become a lien
upon said abutting lands in front of which such work was done, and collected in
the manner provided by law for the collection of other assessments or lien; in
addition thereto, the Town of Hammonton as its option, may maintain an action
to recover the amount thereof against the owner of said lands in any court of
competent jurisdiction.
§ 247-41. Line and grade of sidewalks and curbs.
   A.   All new sidewalks and curbs construction by an abutting owner shall be
constructed in accordance with the line and grade established by the Town
Engineer. All old and existing sidewalks are to be reconstructed or repaired in
accordance with the existing line and grade unless such line or grade is
changed by the Town Engineer. It shall be the duty of the abutting owner in all
instances to make inquiry of the Town Engineer respecting such line and grade.
   B.   All sidewalks and curbs constructed, reconstructed or repaired shall be
in accordance with specifications in the Ordinance of the Town of Hammonton.
§ 247-42. Appropriation of funds; disposition of moneys.
   The town may each year include in its annual budget or Tax Ordinance an
appropriation for curb and/or sidewalk repairs in addition to any existing
maintenance fund, out of which appropriation, all cost of construction and/or
repair of curbs or sidewalks during the year may be charged when it becomes
necessary for the Highway Department to make such repairs and/or construction
pursuant hereto. All moneys recovered or paid to the town under the provisions
of this section, other than penalties as hereinafter set forth, shall be
credited to the account out of which such work was paid.
§ 247-43. Application for permit; fee.
   Whenever any curb or sidewalk is required to be repaired, reset or re-laid
in the Town of Hammonton, application for a permit shall be made by the owner
of the abutting lands or his/her contractor to the Construction Official,
specifying grade, dimensions, mixed materials and method of construction or
repair to be used. The Construction Official shall examine said specifications
and upon approval of the Town Engineer, in compliance with all the provisions
of this article, shall grant a permit to the applicant. Fees for the aforesaid
permit shall be $1 per linear foot of curb being repaired, or for a dollar
amount established by the Town Engineer to cover the estimated cost for review,
approval, and inspection fees required to complete the work associated with the
curb and sidewalk construction.
§ 247-44. Violations and penalties.
   A.   The failure of any applicant or owner or his/her contractor, servant or
agent to construct or repair such curbs and/or sidewalks in accordance with the
specifications failed by him/her for the purpose of securing that permit under
the terms of this article shall be and constitute a violation hereof.
   B.   Any person violating the terms of this article or refusing or
neglecting to comply with any of the provisions hereof shall, upon conviction
therefor, be subject to one or more of the following: a fine of not more than
$1,000, imprisonment for a period not to exceed 90 days or a period of
community service not to exceed 90 days, in the discretion of the court before
whom such conviction is had.
   C.   Each day's persistence in the things or acts prohibited by this article
shall be and constitute a separate and distinct offense subject to any and all
penalties prescribed in this article.
Article VII.
Street Lighting Standards
[Adopted 9-25-2000 by Ord. No. 34-2000; amended in its entirety 5-18-2015 by
Ord. No. 008-2015]
§ 247-45. Purpose.
   The purpose of this article is to establish standards for street lighting
within the Town of Hammonton.
§ 247-46. Standards for streetlight construction.
   All streetlights hereinafter constructed in connection with major/minor
subdivisions and site plans, with public streets that have been dedicated to
the Town of Hammonton, shall conform to the following minimum standards:
   A.   Streetlights in residential areas must be installed approximately 250
to 300 feet apart on straight roadway sections, dependent on lot frontage.
Lights are required at the end of all cul-de-sac streets, at all curves with
radius less than 350 feet or internal angle greater than 30°, as well as at
each intersection in accordance with a streetlight placement plan approved by
the Town Planning Board and Town Lighting Committee. Luminaries shall be one-
hundred-watt high-pressure sodium.
   B.   Streetlights in industrial areas must be installed approximately 400
feet apart, on cul-de-sac as well as at each intersection in accordance with a
streetlight placement plan approved by the Town Planning Board and Town
Lighting Committee. Luminaries shall be one-hundred-watt high-pressure sodium.
   C.   Luminaries shall be mounted on a standard light pole as approved by the
Town Lighting Committee and the Electric Company. Said luminaries shall be
installed in such a manner that said fixtures shall be at twenty-five-foot
vertical clearance from the roadway surface.
   D.   Streetlights shall be requested and paid for by the developer/builder
as set forth by the then existing Electric Company's Street lighting Tariff so
that the town will only be responsible for the energy consumption and not the
installation. Once the installation is complete and the roadway is accepted
into the town's roadway system, the town will take ownership of the lighting
utility bill. The Mayor and Council and the Lighting Committee must finally
approve all street lighting layouts.
§ 247-47. Standards for streetlights along existing public roads.
   All streetlights requested along existing public roads in the Town of
Hammonton shall conform to the following minimum standards:
   A.   Streetlights in residential areas shall be installed approximately 300
to 400 feet apart, or as allowed by the existing spacing of electric utility
poles. Lights shall be installed at ends of all culs-de-sac, at all curves with
radius less than 350° or internal angle greater than 30° and at all
intersections. Luminaries shall be one-hundred-watt high-pressure sodium.
   B.   Streetlights in all other areas of the town shall be installed as
determined to be required by Mayor and Council.
   C.   All street lighting requests shall be reviewed by the Street Lighting
Committee which shall report to Mayor and Council for its consideration and
approval.
§ 247-48. Violations and penalties.
   A person convicted of violating any provision of this article shall be
subject to one or more of the following: a fine of not more than $1,000,
imprisonment for a period not to exceed 90 days or a period of community
service not to exceed 90 days.
ARTICLE VIII
Adopt-a-Street Program
[Adopted 8-25-2014 by Ord. No. 018-2014]
§ 247-49. Program established.
   In order to promote greater public participation in the life of the
community and the operation of town facilities, there is hereby established an
"Adopt-a-Street" program, to be administered under the auspices of the town's
Public Works Department.
   A.   Any individual citizen, group of citizens, family, civic organization,
or business may apply for sponsorship of a street or combination of streets
within the town, taking responsibility for certain tasks aimed at maintaining
the street or streets in a clean, attractive, and safe fashion. The Town Public
Works Director, in consultation with the Town Administrator, shall develop an
application covering rules for the program, and shall recommend an appropriate
sponsorship fee structure to Mayor and Town Council for approval.
   B.   Approved sponsors commit to assisting the town's Public Works
Department in the care and maintenance of Town streets by performing, at least
four times each year, some or all of the following tasks, as appropriate for
the area adopted:
      (1)   Removing litter and recyclable materials.
      (2)   Clearing brush and invasive plants.
      (3)   Mulching street trees.
      (4)   Planting trees, shrubs, and flowers.
   C.   The town will supply bags and other material that will be used to
maintain streets. Sponsors will perform their cleanup with appropriate clothing
including rain gear and gloves.
   D.   Sponsors will be publicly recognized for their efforts through the
prominent placement of a sign, to be purchased and installed by the town,
declaring their sponsorship.
   E.   All sponsorships shall be valid for a period of five years, and shall
be renewable, with the current sponsor having right of first refusal. Failure
to agree to renew a sponsorship within a reasonable period of time from the
date of expiration shall constitute sufficient grounds to allow another
individual or group to assume sponsorship of the subject street(s).
   F.   Each sponsor shall agree, at a minimum, to the following stipulations:
      (1)   To conduct all activities in a safe and responsible manner.
      (2)   To comply with all relevant rules and regulations.
      (3)   To notify the town, through the Business Administrator, regarding
their decision to resign or not renew the sponsorship in writing.
      (4)   To supply sufficient advance notice of scheduled work to the
Director of Public Works.
      (5)   To assign a person in charge of volunteers. This "crew chief" will
be responsible for signing volunteers in and out, as well as ensuring that all
volunteers comply with relevant safety requirements.
      (6)   To ensure that all volunteers under the age of 18 have close and
appropriate adult supervision at all times.
      (7)   To wear clothing (including shoes and gloves) appropriate for the
work and weather.
      (8)   To report any and all damage to the Town Clerk within 24 hours of
occurrence.
      (9)   To sign a "Hold Harmless Agreement" with the Town of Hammonton.
   G.   Individuals or groups that are unable to commit to actual work on a
street may provide funding or materials as an in-kind contribution. These
donations will also qualify for recognition through sign placement, although
the term of acknowledgement shall carry for one year.
CHAPTER 251.
SWIMMING POOLS
[HISTORY: Adopted by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton 9-
13-1971 by Ord. No. 10-1971 as Ch. 145 of the 1971 Code. Amendments noted where
applicable.]
   
§ 251-1.   Intent.
   
§ 251-2.   Definitions.
   
§ 251-3.   Fencing and gates.
   
§ 251-4.   Locking of gates.
   
§ 251-5.   Fence exceptions for aboveground pools.
   
§ 251-6.   Removal of steps when aboveground pool not in use.
   
§ 251-7.   Fencing of preexisting pools.
   
§ 251-8.   Building permit required; fee.
   
§ 251-9.   Violations and penalties.
GENERAL REFERENCES
   Land development — See
Ch. 175, §
175-135.
§ 251-1. Intent.
   The Town of Hammonton is of the considered belief that regulation of the
construction and maintenance of swimming pools, and the enclosure and fencing
of same, is in the public interest and is a reasonably necessary exercise of
the police power for the health, welfare and safety of the inhabitants of the
Town of Hammonton and visitors thereto.
§ 251-2. Definitions.
   As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
indicated:
   PERSON
   Any person, partnership, corporation or other group of persons.
   SWIMMING POOL
   Any body of water which is out of doors and is artificially constructed in
whole or in part, and which is more than 24 inches in depth at any point either
below ground level or within the pool itself should the pool be constructed
above ground level.
§ 251-3. Fencing and gates.
   No person shall construct or maintain a swimming pool within the Town of
Hammonton unless said pool is enclosed with a fence of at least four feet in
height from average ground grade, which fence shall completely enclose the area
within which the swimming pool is located and shall bar all reasonable and
normal access to the pool except through a self-closing gate or gates, which
shall be the same height of the fence and shall have facilities enabling said
gate or gates to be locked.
§ 251-4. Locking of gates.
   No person maintaining any pool within the Town of Hammonton shall permit the
gate or gates to the enclosed area surrounding said pool to be unlocked at any
time when the pool is not in use.
§ 251-5. Fence exceptions for aboveground pools.
   A.   For the purposes of this chapter, no fence shall be required around a
pool that is constructed above ground:
      (1)   Where that portion of the pool, scaffolding or walking area
surrounding the pool which is closest to the average ground grade is more than
four feet in height from average ground grade; and
      (2)   Where said pool has a removable stairway as its only means of
ingress and egress.
   B.   This exclusion of the fence requirement of this section shall not apply
if any nonremovable portion of the pool or scaffolding or any other part of the
pool structure which can be used for the purpose of gaining access to the pool
is less than four feet in height from average ground grade.
§ 251-6. Removal of steps when aboveground pool not in use.
   In the case of a pool built above ground grade which qualified for the
exception set forth in §
251-5 above, the removable stairs or steps which are used for purpose of
gaining access to or from said pool area must be removed or elevated above four
feet from average ground grade at all times when the pool is not in use.
§ 251-7. Fencing of preexisting pools.
   All persons having a swimming pool on their property which is in existence
on the effective date of this chapter and which does not conform to the
requirements of this chapter shall provide the required fencing and gates as
set forth in §
251-3 herein within 60 days from the effective date of this chapter.
§ 251-8. Building permit required; fee.
   No person shall construct or maintain an outdoor swimming pool in the Town
of Hammonton without first applying for and securing a building permit from the
Building Inspector. Any person applying for such a permit shall supply the
Building Inspector with full plans and specifications as to the pool, the pool
area, the fencing and the gates and shall pay a fee of $2 with said
application.
§ 251-9. Violations and penalties.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to one
or more of the following: a fine of not more than $1,000, imprisonment for a
period not to exceed 90 days or a period of community service not to exceed 90
days.
CHAPTER 254.
TAXATION
[HISTORY: Adopted by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton as
indicated in article histories. Amendments noted where applicable. Amended in
full 12-14-2015 by Ord. No. 25-2015.]
ARTICLE I.
Tax Exemptions for Existing Residential Dwellings and Commercial or Industrial
Structures
   
§ 254-1.   Definitions.
   
§ 254-2.   Granting of exemption.
   
§ 254-3.   Exemption for improvements to commercial or industrial structures.
   
§ 254-4.   Duration of tax exemption; application of other laws to projects.
   
§ 254-5.   Tax payments due upon disqualification of property owner prior to
termination of agreement; termination of agreement.
   
§ 254-6.   Determination of tax due upon completion of improvement.
   
§ 254-7.   Ineligibility of property for which property taxes or penalties are
due.
   
§ 254-8.   Application approval; recording as part of tax records.
   
§ 254-9.   Additional improvements.
   
§ 254-10.   Taxes subject to exemption.
   
§ 254-11.   Notice to taxpayers of adoption of ordinance.
ARTICLE II.
Tax Exemptions and Abatement for New Commercial or Industrial Construction
   
§ 254-12.   Definitions.
   
§ 254-13.   Granting of exemption.
   
§ 254-14.   Contents of applications for tax exemption and/or abatement.
   
§ 254-15.   Duration of tax exemption and/or abatement; application of other
laws to projects.
   
§ 254-16.   Tax payments due upon disqualification of property owner prior to
termination of agreement; termination of agreement.
   
§ 254-17.   Determination of tax due upon completion of construction.
   
§ 254-18.   Ineligibility of property for which property taxes or penalties are
due.
   
§ 254-19.   Application approval; recording as part of tax records; copy of
agreement forwarded to department of community affairs.
   
§ 254-20.   Additional improvement or construction.
   
§ 254-21.   Taxes subject to exemption.
   
§ 254-22.   Annual report.
   
§ 254-23.   Notice to taxpayers.
   
§ 254-24.   Repealer.
ARTICLE I.
Tax Exemptions for Existing Residential Dwellings and Commercial or Industrial
Structures
[Adopted 9-12-1994 by Ord. No. 24-19941]
   1.   Editor's Note: This article also provided that, pursuant to N.J.S.A.
40A:21-1 et seq., "areas in need of rehabilitation may qualify for tax
exemption programs provided they have conditions such that a significant
portion of structures are in a deteriorated or substandard condition; there is
a continuing pattern of vacancy, abandonment or underutilization of property in
the area, with a persistent arrearage of property tax payments; and a program
of rehabilitation may be expected to prevent further deterioration and promote
the overall development of the community." The governing body further
determined that the following zones meet the aforementioned conditions: the
Town Business Zone, Highway Business Zone, Mixed Use Zone and the Agricultural
Production/Compatible Light Industry Zone.
   The governing body approved a Resolution on 10-26-2015 following a
recommendation from the Planning Board that the entire Town be declared an area
in need of rehabilitation as set forth in N.J.S.A.40A:21-1 and specifically
N.J.S.A. 40A:12a-14. Thus, this Chapter encompasses all Zoning Districts within
the Town of Hammonton.
§ 254-1. Definitions.
   As used in this article, the following meanings shall apply:
   ASSESSOR — The officer of the Town of Hammonton charged with the duty of
assessing real property for the purpose of general taxation.
   COMMERCIAL OR INDUSTRIAL STRUCTURE — A structure or part thereof used for
the manufacturing, processing or assembling of material or manufactured
products or for research, office, industrial, commercial, retail, recreational,
hotel or motel facilities or warehousing purposes or for any combination
thereof which the governing body determines will tend to maintain or provide
gainful employment within the municipality, assist in the economic development
of the municipality, maintain or increase the tax base of the municipality and
maintain or diversify and expand commerce within the municipality. It shall not
include any structure or part thereof used or to be used by any business
relocated from another qualifying municipality.
   COMPLETION — Substantially ready for the intended use for which a building
or structure is constructed, improved or converted.
   DWELLING — Consisting of single family attached, single family detached and
twin or two family dwellings as further defined in §
175-10.
   EXEMPTION — That portion of the Assessor's full and true value of any
improvement, conversion, alteration or construction not regarded as increasing
the taxable value of a property, pursuant to this article.
   IMPROVEMENT — A modernization, rehabilitation, renovation, alteration or
repair which produces a physical change in an existing building or structure;
that improves the safety, sanitation, decency or attractiveness of the building
or structure as a place in which to live or work; and which does not change its
permitted use. In the case of a commercial or industrial structures, it shall
not include ordinary painting, repairs and replacement of maintenance items, or
an enlargement of the volume of an existing commercial or industrial structure
by more than 30%. In no case shall it include the repair of fire damage or
other damage to a property for which a claim was received by any person from an
insurance company at any time during the three-year period immediately
preceding the filing of an application pursuant to this article. The exemption/
abatement ordinance does not apply to the construction of above-ground or in-
ground pools or pole barns.
[Amended 3-20-2017 by Ord. No. 009-2017]
§ 254-2. Granting of exemption.
[Amended 2-26-1996 by Ord. No. 1-1996; 3-20-2017 by Ord. No. 009-2017]
   A.   An exemption from taxation for improvements to dwellings may be granted
upon review, evaluation and approval of each application on an individual basis
by the governing body. The Town of Hammonton shall regard the first $25,000 of
the Assessor's full and true value of the improvements to the dwelling as not
increasing the value of the property for a period of five years. During the
exemption period, the assessment on the property shall not be less than the
assessment thereon existing immediately prior to the improvements, unless an
abatement is granted pursuant to §
254-2(B), or unless there is damage to the structure through action of the
elements sufficient to warrant a reduction.
   B.   The Town of Hammonton may allow an abatement of 30% of the annual
amount of the exemption granted under §
254-2(A) above, for a period of five years, if the Assessor's full and true
value of the improvements to the dwelling exceed the $25,000 exemption amount.
§ 254-3. Exemption for improvements to commercial or industrial structures.
[Amended 3-20-2017 by Ord. No. 009-2017]
   An exemption from taxation for improvements to commercial or industrial
structures may be granted upon review, evaluation and approval of each
application on an individual basis by the governing body. The Town of Hammonton
shall exempt 100% of the Assessor's full and true value of the improvements to
the commercial or industrial structure as not increasing the value of the
property for a period of five years. During the exemption period, the
assessment on the property shall not be less than the assessment thereon
existing immediately prior to the improvements, unless there is damage to the
structure through action of the elements sufficient to warrant a reduction.
§ 254-4. Duration of tax exemption; application of other laws to projects.
   A.   All tax exemptions granted pursuant to this article shall be in effect
no more than the five full tax years next following the date of completion of
the project.
   B.   All projects subject to tax exemption as provided herein shall be
subject to all applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations
regarding pollution control, worker safety, discrimination in employment,
housing provisions and zoning, planning and building code requirements.
§ 254-5. Tax payments due upon disqualification of property owner prior to
termination of agreement; termination of agreement.
   A.   If during any tax year prior to the termination of the tax exemption,
the property owner ceases to operate or disposes of the property or fails to
meet the conditions for qualifying, then the tax which would have otherwise
been payable for each tax year shall become due and payable from the property
owner as if no exemption had been granted. The Tax Assessor shall notify the
property owner and the Tax Collector forthwith, and the Tax Collector shall,
within 15 days thereof, notify the owner of the property of the amount of taxes
due. However, with respect to the disposal of the property, where it is
determined that the new owner of the property will continue to use the property
pursuant to the conditions which qualified the property, no tax shall be due,
the exemption shall continue and the agreement shall remain in effect.
   B.   At the termination of a tax exemption, a project shall be subject to
all applicable real property taxes, as provided by state law and regulation and
local ordinance, but nothing herein shall prohibit a project, at the
termination of an exemption, for qualifying for and receiving the full benefits
of any other tax preferences provided by law.
§ 254-6. Determination of tax due upon completion of improvement.
The Assessor shall determine, on October 1 of the year following the date of
the completion of an improvement, the true taxable value thereof. The amount of
tax to be paid for the first full tax year following completion shall be based
on the assessed valuation of the property for the previous year, plus any
portion of the assessed valuation of the improvement not allowed an exemption
pursuant to this article. The property shall continue to be treated in the
appropriate manner for each of the five full tax years subsequent to the
original determination by the Assessor.
§ 254-7. Ineligibility of property for which property taxes or penalties are
due.
   No exemption shall be granted pursuant to this article with respect to any
property for which property taxes are delinquent or remain unpaid or for which
penalties for nonpayment of taxes are due.
§ 254-8. Application approval; recording as part of tax records.
   No exemption shall be granted pursuant to this article except upon written
application therefor filed with and approved by the Assessor. Every application
shall be on a form prescribed by the Director of the Division of Taxation in
the Department of the Treasury and provided for the use of claimants by the
Town of Hammonton and shall be filed with the Assessor within 30 days,
including Saturdays and Sundays, following the completion of the improvement.
Every application for exemption which is filed within the time specified shall
be approved and allowed by the Assessor to the degree that the application is
consistent with the provisions of this article, provided that the improvement
for which the application is made qualifies as an improvement pursuant to the
provisions of this article and N.J.S.A. 40A:21-1 et seq. The granting of an
exemption shall be recorded and made a permanent part of the official tax
records of the taxing district, which record shall contain a notice of the
termination date thereof.
§ 254-9. Additional improvements.
   Any additional improvements, completed on a property granted a previous
exemption during the period in which such previous exemption is in effect,
shall be qualified for an exemption just as if such property had not received a
previous exemption. In such case, the additional improvement shall be
considered as separate for purposes of calculating exemptions.
§ 254-10. Taxes subject to exemption.
   The exemption provided by this article shall apply to property taxes levied
for municipal purposes, school purposes and county government purposes.
§ 254-11. Notice to taxpayers of adoption of ordinance.
   Pursuant to N.J.S.A. 40A:21-20, notice of the adoption of this article shall
be included in the mailing of annual property tax bills to each owner of a
dwelling located in the Town of Hammonton during the first year following
adoption of this article.
ARTICLE II.
Tax Exemptions and Abatement or New Commercial or Industrial Construction
 
[Adopted 4-17-2000 by Ord. No. 8-2000; amended 3-20-2017 by Ord. No. 009-2017]
§ 254-12. Definitions.
   As used in this article, the following terms shall have the meanings
indicated:
   ASSESSOR — The officer of a taxing district charged with the duty of
assessing real property for the purpose of general taxation, also identified in
this article as the Town Tax Assessor.
   COMMERCIAL OR INDUSTRIAL STRUCTURE — A structure or part thereof used for
the manufacturing, processing or assembling of material or manufactured
products, or for research, office, industrial, commercial, retail,
recreational, hotel or motel facilities, or warehousing purposes, or for any
combination thereof, which the governing body determines will tend to maintain
or provide gainful employment within the municipality, assist in the economic
development of the municipality, maintain or increase the tax base of the
municipality and maintain or diversify and expand commerce within the
municipality. It shall not include any structure or part thereof used or to be
used by any business relocated from another qualifying municipality unless the
total square footage of the floor area of the structure or part thereof used or
to be used by the business at the new site, together with the total square
footage of the land used or to be used by the business at the new site, exceeds
the total square footage of that utilized by the business at its current site
of operations by at least 10%; and the property that the business is relocating
to has been the subject of a remedial action plan costing in excess of $250,000
performed pursuant to an administrative consent order entered into pursuant to
authority vested in the Commissioner of Environmental Protection under P.L.
1970, c. 33 (N.J.S.A. 13:1D-1 et seq.), the Water Pollution Control Act, P.L.
1977, c. 74 (N.J.S.A. 58:10A-1 et seq.), the Solid Waste Management Act, P.L.
1970, c. 39 (N.J.S.A. 13:1E-1 et seq.), and the Spill Compensation and Control
Act, P.L. 1976, c. 141 (N.J.S.A. 58:10-23.11 et seq.).
   COMPLETION — Substantially ready for the intended use for which a building
or structure is constructed, improved or converted.
   CONSTRUCTION — The provision of a new commercial or industrial structure, or
the enlargement of the volume of an existing commercial or industrial structure
by more than 30%, but shall not mean the conversion of an existing building or
structure to another use.
   EXEMPTION — That portion of the Assessor's full and true value of any
improvement or construction not regarded as increasing the taxable value of a
property pursuant to this act.
   IMPROVEMENT — A modernization, rehabilitation, renovation, alteration or
repair which produces a physical change in an existing building or structure
that improves the safety, sanitation, decency or attractiveness of the building
or structure as a place for human habitation or work, and which does not change
its permitted use. It shall not include ordinary painting, repairs and
replacement of maintenance items, or an enlargement of the volume of an
existing structure by more than 30%. In no case shall it include the repair of
fire or other damage to a property for which payment of a claim was received by
any person from an insurance company at any time during the three-year period
immediately preceding the filing of an application pursuant to this act.
§ 254-13. Granting of exemption.
[Amended 3-20-2017 by Ord. No. 009-2017]
   A.   Exemptions and/or abatements from taxation for construction of
commercial or industrial structures may be granted upon review, evaluation and
approval of each application on an individual project basis by municipal
resolution. If the application is approved and the exemption and/or abatement
is granted, the Mayor and Town Council will enter into a written agreement with
the applicant for the exemption and/or abatement of real property taxes.
   B.   Application for exemptions and/or abatements from taxation filed
pursuant to this article will take initial effect for the first full tax year
commencing after the tax year in which this article is adopted, and for tax
years thereafter as set forth in P.L. 1991, c. 441 (N.J.S.A. 40A:21-1, et
seq.), but no application for exemptions and/or abatements shall be filed for
exemptions and/or abatements to take initial effect for the eleventh full tax
year or any tax year occurring thereafter, unless this article is readopted by
the Mayor and Town Council pursuant to N.J.S.A. 40A:21-4.
   C.   The written tax agreement entered into between the Town and applicant
shall provide for the applicant to pay the Town in lieu of full property tax
payments an amount annually computed based upon the tax phase-in basis formula
set forth in N.J.S.A. 40A:21-10(c).
§ 254-14. Contents of applications for tax exemption and/or abatement.
[Amended 3-20-2017 by Ord. No. 009-2017]
   Applicants for tax exemption and/or abatement for new construction of
commercial or industrial structures shall provide the municipal Mayor and Town
Council with an application setting forth:
   A.   A general description of a project for which exemption is sought.
   B.   A legal description of all real estate necessary for the project.
   C.   Plans, drawings and other documents as may be required by the Mayor and
Town Council to demonstrate the structure and design of the project, including
site plans and floor plans.
   D.   A description of the number, classes and type of employees to be
employed at the project site within two years of completion of the project, and
a breakdown of those employees which it is estimated will be new hires from the
population of the Town of Hammonton.
   E.   A statement of the reasons for seeking tax exemption on the project,
and a description of the benefits to be realized by the applicant if a tax
agreement is granted.
   F.   Estimates of the cost of completing such project.
   G.   A statement showing:
      (1)   The real property taxes currently being assessed at the project
site;
      (2)   Estimated tax payments that would be made annually by the applicant
on the project during the period of the agreement; and
      (3)   Estimated tax payments that would be made by the applicant on the
project during the first full year following the termination of the tax
agreement.
   H.   A description of any lease agreements between the applicant and
proposed users of the project, and a history and description of the users'
businesses.
   I.   Such other pertinent information as the Mayor and Town Council may
reasonably require.
§ 254-15. Duration of tax exemption and/or abatement; application of other laws
to projects.
[Amended 3-20-2017 by Ord. No. 009-2017]
   A.   All tax exemptions and/or abatements granted pursuant to this article
shall be in effect for no more than the five full tax years next following the
date of completion of the project.
   B.   All projects subject to tax agreement as provided herein shall be
subject to all applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations on
pollution control, worker safety, discrimination in employment, housing
provision, zoning, planning and building code requirements.
§ 254-16. Tax payments due upon disqualification of property owner prior to
termination of agreement; termination of agreement.
   A.   If during any tax year prior to the termination of the tax agreement,
the property owner ceases to operate or disposes of the property, or fails to
meet the conditions for qualifying, then the tax which would have otherwise
been payable for each tax year shall become due and payable from the property
owner as if no exemption had been granted. The Mayor and Town Council shall
direct the Town Clerk/Administrator to notify the property owner and Tax
Collector forthwith, and the Tax Collector shall within 15 days thereof notify
the owner of the property of the amount of taxes due.
   B.   However, with respect to the disposal of the property, where it is
determined that the new owner of the property will continue to use the property
pursuant to the conditions which qualified the property, no tax shall be due,
the exemption shall continue, and the agreement shall remain in effect.
   C.   At the termination of a tax agreement, a project shall be subject to
all applicable real property taxes as provided by state law and regulation and
local ordinance, but nothing herein shall prohibit a project, at the
termination of an agreement, from qualifying for and receiving the full
benefits of any other tax preferences provided by law.
§ 254-17. Determination of tax due upon completion of construction.
   The Town Tax Assessor shall determine, on October 1 of the year following
the date of the completion of construction, the true taxable value thereof. The
amount to be paid for the first full tax year following completion shall be
based on the assessed valuation of the property for the previous year plus any
portion of the assessed valuation of the construction not allowed an exemption
pursuant to this article. The property shall continue to be treated in the
appropriate manner for each of the five full tax years subsequent to the
original determination by the Town Tax Assessor.
§ 254-18. Ineligibility of property for which property taxes or penalties are
due.
[Amended 3-20-2017 by Ord. No. 009-2017]
   No exemption and/or abatement shall be granted pursuant to this article with
respect to any property for which property taxes are delinquent or remain
unpaid, or for which penalties for nonpayment of taxes are due.
§ 254-19. Application approval; recording as part of tax records; copy of
agreement forwarded to department of community affairs.
   A.   No exemption and/or abatement shall be granted pursuant to this article
except upon written application therefor filed with and approved by the Town
Tax Assessor. Every application shall be on a form prescribed by the Director
of the Division of Taxation in the Department of the Treasury, and provided for
the use of claimants by the Town of Hammonton, and shall be filed with the Town
Tax Assessor within 30 days, including Saturdays and Sundays, following the
completion of the construction. Every application for exemption and/or
abatement which is filed within the time specified, shall be approved and
allowed by the Town Tax Assessor to the degree that the application is
consistent with the provisions of this article, provided that the construction
for which the application is made qualifies as a construction pursuant to the
provisions of this article and of N.J.S.A. 40A:21-1 et seq. The granting of an
exemption and/or abatement shall be recorded and made a permanent part of the
official tax records of the taxing district, which records shall contain a
notice of the termination date thereof.
[Amended 3-20-2017 by Ord. No. 009-2017]
   B.   Within 30 days after the execution of an agreement, the Mayor and Town
Council shall direct the Town Clerk/Administrator to forward a copy of the
agreement to the Director of the Division of Local Government Services in the
Department of Community Affairs.
§ 254-20. Additional improvement or construction.
[Amended 3-20-2017 by Ord. No. 009-2017]
   Any additional improvement or construction, completed on a property granted
a previous exemption and/or abatement pursuant to this article during the
period in which such previous exemption and/or abatement is in effect, shall be
qualified for an exemption just as if such property had not received a previous
exemption and/or abatement. In such case, the additional improvement or
construction shall be considered as separate for the purposes of calculating
exemptions pursuant to this chapter.
§ 254-21. Taxes subject to exemption.
[Amended 3-20-2017 by Ord. No. 009-2017]
   The exemption and/or abatement of real property taxes provided this article
shall apply to property taxes levied for municipal purposes, school purposes,
county government purposes and for the purposes of funding any other property
tax exemptions or abatements.
§ 254-22. Annual report.
   The Mayor and Town Council shall direct the Tax Assessor to provide the
report required by N.J.S.A. 40A:21-21 to the Director of the Division of Local
Government Services in the Department of Community Affairs.
§ 254-23. Notice to taxpayers.
   Pursuant to N.J.S.A. 40A:21-20, notice of the adoption of this article shall
be included in the mailing of annual property tax bills to each owner of a
property located in the area within the Town of Hammonton in which the
exemptions may be allowed pursuant to this article, during the first year
following adoption of this article.
§ 254-24. Repealer.
   All parts of any ordinance of the Town of Hammonton that are inconsistent
with this article are hereby repealed.
CHAPTER 257.
TAXICABS
[HISTORY: Adopted by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton 9-
13-1971 by Ord. No. 10-1971 as Ch. 147 of the 1971 Code. Amendments noted where
applicable.]
   
§ 257-1.   Definition.
   
§ 257-2.   Power to license and control.
   
§ 257-3.   Issuance of license; conditions.
   
§ 257-4.   Number of licenses.
   
§ 257-5.   Age, residency and other licensing requirements; transferability.
   
§ 257-6.   License necessary to drive cab.
   
§ 257-7.   Prohibited parking areas.
   
§ 257-8.   Revocation.
   
§ 257-9.   Expiration of license.
   
§ 257-10.   Violations and penalties.
GENERAL REFERENCES
   Air taxi service — See
Ch. 72.
   Vehicles and traffic — See
Ch. 271.
§ 257-1. Definition.
   As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
indicated:
   TAXICAB
   Every vehicle, except a motorbus, which is used or to be used for the common
carriage and conveyance of persons for hire from place to place within the Town
of Hammonton, or from a point within the Town of Hammonton to a point without
the Town of Hammonton.
§ 257-2. Power to license and control.
   The licensing and control of taxicabs and the owners and operators thereof
shall be in the governing body of the Town of Hammonton.
§ 257-3. Issuance of license; conditions.
[Amended 11-26-2012 by Ord. No. 025-2012]
The Town Clerk or Business Administrator of the Town of Hammonton is hereby
authorized to issue taxicab licenses to applicants who may apply and pay the
fee, on the following conditions:
   A.   Every owner shall make application for a license or renewal thereof,
which application shall be made in writing on appropriate application form
created by the Town Clerk and filed with the Town Clerk or Business
Administrator, and shall set forth the following:
      (1)   Motor vehicle year, make, model, serial number and license plate
number
      (2)   Applicant(s) name, address and telephone number
      (3)   Business name, address and telephone number
      (4)   Signatures of applicant(s) and all driver(s)
   B.   The applicant shall pay an annual license fee of $50 to be made payable
to the Town of Hammonton.
   C.   Before such license is granted, the owner shall submit a Certificate of
Insurance for each separate business vehicle in the amount of $500,000
liability for each person and not less than $500,000 liability insurance per
accident.
[Amended 10-23-1989 by Ord. No. 35-1989]
   D.   Each initial application must be approved by the governing body in the
form of a resolution.
   E.   Issuance of taxi cab license and licensing of drivers is subject to
police approval.
§ 257-4. Number of licenses.
[Amended 11-26-2012 by Ord. No. 025-2012]
   The Town Clerk or Business Administrator is hereby empowered to approve and
license, after full compliance by the applicants with all the applicable
provisions of this chapter, not more than eight taxicabs in the Town of
Hammonton.
§ 257-5. Age, residency and other licensing requirements; transferability.  1
[Amended 11-26-2012 by Ord. No. 025-2012]
   No taxi license is transferable. Each new business is required to make
application per this chapter.
 
Notes
1 Editor's Note: Amended at time of adoption of Code (see Ch. 1, General
  Provisions, Art. I).
§ 257-6. License necessary to drive cab.
[Amended 11-26-2012 by Ord. No. 025-2012]
   A.   Each driver who is licensed shall be subject to police approval.
   B.   Each driver shall pay a fee of $1.
   C.   Each driver must be at least 21 years of age.
   D.   Each driver must submit proof of identity and hold a current New Jersey
driver's license.
   E.   The Town Clerk or Business Administrator may add or remove driver(s) at
the request of the applicant(s) and upon police approval.
§ 257-7. Prohibited parking areas.  2  
[Amended 11-26-2012 by Ord. No. 025-2012]
   No taxicab, as above described, having been licensed to operate within the
Town of Hammonton, shall be parked for the purposes of soliciting trade on any
street in the Town of Hammonton. However, nothing herein shall be construed to
prevent the taking on or discharging of passengers at any place within said
town..
 
Notes
2 Editor's Note: Amended at time of adoption of Code (see Ch. 1, General
  Provisions, Art. I).
§ 257-8. Revocation.
[Amended 11-26-2012 by Ord. No. 025-2012]
   The governing body may, by appropriate resolution, revoke any license
granted, so long as the license owner is given a public hearing, for any of the
following reasons:
   A.   For conviction of having violated any of the provisions of this
chapter.
   B.   For conviction of having failed to obey the traffic regulations and
laws of the state for the operation and registration and inspection of motor
vehicles.
   C.   For conviction of having used said taxicab or automobile while engaging
in the violation of any law or statute of this state or of the United States.
   D.   Upon proof of having failed to pay any judgment for personal injury or
property damage obtained against him/her for the unlawful or negligent
operation of the automobile for which this license is granted.
§ 257-9. Expiration of license.
[Amended 11-26-2012 by Ord. No. 025-2012]
   Taxicab license(s) issued under this chapter shall expire one year from date
of issuance.
§ 257-10. Violations and penalties.
   Anyone violating the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to one or
more of the following: a fine of not more than $1,000, imprisonment for a
period not to exceed 90 days or a period of community service not to exceed 90
days.
CHAPTER 259.
TOBACCO PRODUCTS
[HISTORY: Adopted by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton as
indicated in article histories. Amendments noted where applicable.]
ARTICLE I.
Vending Machines and Self-Service Displays
   
§ 259-1.   Purpose.
   
§ 259-2.   Remote actuators.
   
§ 259-3.   Retail establishments.
   
§ 259-4.   Violations and penalties.
Article I.
Vending Machines and Self-Service Displays
[Adopted 12-18-2000 by Ord. No. 41-2000]
§ 259-1. Purpose.
   The purpose of this article is to prohibit unregulated tobacco vending
machines and self-service displays of tobacco products.
§ 259-2. Remote actuators.
   It shall be unlawful to offer for sale or to sell tobacco through a tobacco
vending machine which is not equipped with a remote actuator to insure
compliance with N.J.S.A. 2A:170-51, a statute prohibiting the sale or
furnishing of tobacco products to persons under 18 years of age.
§ 259-3. Retail establishments.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain a self-service tobacco display within any
retail establishment.
§ 259-4. Violations and penalties.
   Unless otherwise provided by law or statute, any person violating any of the
provisions of this article shall, upon conviction thereof, pay a penalty of not
less than $100 nor more than $500 for each offense.
CHAPTER 261.
TOWING
[HISTORY: Adopted by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton 10-
24-1983 by Ord. No. 11-1983. Amendments noted where applicable.]
   
§ 261-1.   Purpose; authority.
   
§ 261-2.   Application process.
   §
261-3.   Procedure in event of denial.
   §
261-4.   Revocation or suspension of license.
   §
261-5.   Tow/storage requirements; towing and storage of vehicles; and fee
schedule.
   §
261-6.   Insurance requirements.
   §
261-7.   Recordkeeping.
   §
261-8.   Right to request specific towing service; applicability.
   §
261-9.   Complaints; violations and penalties.
 
GENERAL REFERENCES
   Vehicles and traffic — See
Ch. 271.
§ 261-1. Purpose; authority.
   The purpose of this chapter is to promote the public health, safety and
welfare of the citizens of the Town of Hammonton and individuals traversing
said town from traffic hazards occasioned by an accumulation of towing trucks
and similar vehicles at the scenes of accidents or abandoned cars. This chapter
is enacted pursuant to the police powers given the Town of Hammonton under the
State Constitution and state law.
§ 261-2. Application process.
[Amended 11-16-2020 by Ord. No. 15-2020]
   A.   Submission of application. Applications for all towing licenses
required by this chapter shall be made in writing to the Town Clerk who shall
review the applications for completeness prior to transferring said
applications to the Chief of Police for processing. All applications shall be
accompanied by a $300.00 nonrefundable application fee.
      (1)   Contents of application. Each application shall include the
following information:
         (a)   The name of the applicant; if a corporation, the names and
addresses of the officers; if a partnership, the names and addresses of all
partners; if a limited liability company, the names and addresses of the
members; if a sole proprietorship, the name and address of the owner, shall be
set forth.
         (b)   The complete home address, home telephone number, date of birth
and social security number of the applicant, if a sole proprietorship, or the
complete home addresses, home telephone numbers, dates of birth and social
security numbers of principal officers and partners if the applicant is a
corporation or partnership; or the complete home address, home telephone
numbers, dates of birth and social security numbers of the members if the
applicant is a limited liability company.
         (c)   Photocopies of all registrations of every tow vehicle to be
operated by the applicant. If the tow vehicle is leased, the applicant is
required to submit a lease agreement.
         (d)   Names, addresses and telephone numbers of any lien holders on
the principal location.
         (e)   Name, address and telephone number of the insurer and
photocopies of each certificate of insurance.
         (f)   Photocopies of all towing vehicle operator's current driver's
licenses, along with their social security numbers.
         (g)   Whether or not the applicant has ever had a license to conduct
the business herein described denied or revoked. If such license has been
denied, the applicant shall set forth in detail the facts leading to such
denial.
         (h)   A statement as to whether the applicant has been convicted of
any crime or the violation of any municipal ordinance other than traffic
offenses and, if so, the date and place of conviction, the nature of the
offense.
         (i)   The business telephone number of the applicant.
         (j)   The description, including the license number, of all vehicles
to be used.
         (k)   If the applicant is not actively involved in the day to day
operations of the business, then in that event, the applicant shall provide the
name and address of the manager and/or individual responsible for the day-to-
day operations of the business.
         (l)   The applicant shall execute a hold harmless and indemnification
agreement prepared by the Town of Hammonton wherein the municipal towing
contractor shall hold harmless, indemnify and defend, at the contractor's
expense, the Town of Hammonton, its employees and officials against all claims,
demands, lawsuits, or actions for personal injury, property damage, or any
third party claim brought against the Town, its employees and officials for any
activities which arise out or are related in any way to the services performed
in accordance with this chapter.
         (m)   The applicant shall provide an affidavit that the information
given in the application is true and correct.
         (n)   Applications will be processed according to the order in which
the Town Clerk received them.
   B.   Investigation and inspection.
      (1)   Applications received by the Town Clerk shall be referred to the
Chief of Police. The Chief of Police or his/her designee shall initiate an
investigation to be made of the applicant and of its proposed business
operation and shall perform inspections of the vehicles to be licensed.
      (2)   A criminal history and driver's license check will be performed on
all persons listed in the application, Each applicant will pay all fees
required by the State of New Jersey for criminal history record information.
      (3)   The Town of Hammonton recognizes that the municipal towing
contractor must be trustworthy in that it is safeguarding vehicles belonging to
others. Therefore, to protect the public interest, the Town may disqualify any
applicant wherein an employee, owner, officer, partner, etc., that has been
convicted of a crime (including disorderly persons offenses) or any violation
that would indicate that the applicant may not be responsible to perform in the
best interest of others.
      (4)   The Town of Hammonton recognizes that tow truck operators must also
be drivers who abide by this state's motor vehicle laws. Accordingly, the Town
may disqualify any tow truck operator having one or more convictions, within
three years of the date of application or renewal thereof, of any moving
violation of the motor vehicle laws of this state which the Town Chief of
Police or his/her designee determines will negatively impact upon the ability
of the tow truck operator to safely and properly perform the services listed in
this chapter. If the applicant is already licensed, any conviction for any
moving violation which the Town Chief of Police or his/her designee determines
will negatively impact upon the ability of the tow truck operator to safely and
properly perform required services will result in the disqualification of the
tow truck operator from performing duties associated with this chapter.
      (5)   Each contractor must be able to demonstrate that they are qualified
and experienced in the towing and removal of all types of vehicles and that
they have the facilities, equipment, expertise and personnel to meet the towing
and storage requirements of the Town of Hammonton as set forth herein. Further,
each contractor shall possess any and all licensing required by local and state
law to perform towing and/or storage services within New Jersey.
      (6)   The municipal towing contractor shall notify the Police Department,
in writing, of any criminal charges (including disorderly persons offenses),
motor vehicle offenses or ordinance violations that are issued against the
municipal towing contractor or its employees during the term of the license.
Failure to make the proper notification to the Police Department may result in
the revocation of the license.
   C.   Approval/denial process.
      (1)   The Chief of Police shall have a reasonable period of time after
the receipt of the completed application to complete the investigation and
inspection and submit a written report to the Town Clerk. The report shall
include recommendations that the applicant be accepted, denied or accepted with
provisions.
      (2)   The Town Council, by a majority vote, shall approve or deny any
such applications.
      (3)   The Town Clerk shall issue a license to applicants approved by the
Town Council and notify in writing the applications denied by the Town Council.
   D.    License issuance.
      (1)   All towing licenses will be issued for a period of one year
beginning January 1 of each year and expire on December 31. Applications for
license renewals are to be completed and returned to the Town Clerk by
September 15 for the following calendar year.
      (2)   Licenses are property of the Town and cannot be assigned, leased,
shared, transferred or sold to another person, corporation or proprietorship
under any circumstances.
      (3)   The municipal towing contractor shall not represent that he/she is
a servant, agent or employee of the Town with respect to said towing service,
but is an independent contractor and shall not hold himself out as an official
member of the government of the Town of Hammonton or of its departments.
      (4)   The Town of Hammonton may issue a temporary municipal towing
contractor license in the event that any emergent situation arises for the
purpose of adding additional towers or replacing a current license, for reasons
of revocation or closing of the business. The temporary license may be issued
immediately, but the applicant must submit an application within two business
days. A temporary license shall be valid for 60 days.
§ 261-3. Procedure in event of denial.
[Amended 11-16-2020 by Ord. No. 15-2020]
   A.   In the event that the Chief of Police or a police officer designated by
him/her makes a determination of non-issuance of a license to an applicant, the
applicant aggrieved thereby may appear to the governing body of the Town of
Hammonton by written notice filed with the Town Clerk within 30 days of the
date of the denial. Town Council shall, at that time, set a date for the
hearing, which shall take place no sooner than 10 days nor later than 30 days
from the date the request was presented to Town Council. The governing body
shall review the application documents, hear testimony from the applicant, the
Chief of Police or a police officer designated by him/her and other witnesses
as it deems fit, and thereupon affirm, deny or modify the action taken by the
Chief of Police or a police officer designated by him/her.
   B.   No applicant shall conduct a business without a license or while a
denied license is under appeal as aforesaid.
§ 261-4. Revocation or suspension of license.
[Amended 11-16-2020 by Ord. No. 15-2020]
   A.   Any license issued by the Town may be suspended or revoked by the Chief
of Police for any of the following causes:
      (1)   Fraud or misrepresentation in any application for a license.
      (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation or other illegal activity in the conduct
of the licensed business.
      (3)   A violation of any provision of this chapter or other Town
ordinances.
      (4)   Conviction of the licensee for any felony or a misdemeanor or
disorderly person's offense involving moral turpitude.
      (5)   Conduct of the licensed activity, whether by the licensee himself/
herself or his/her agents or employees, in an unlawful manner or in a manner
that constitutes a breach of the peace or a menace to the public health, safety
or general welfare.
      (6)   A criminal conviction of a towing operator or a principal of the
towing operator.
      (7)   Failure to respond to calls reliably and promptly, or any other
unsatisfactory performance, which interferes with the operation of the rotating
tow system.
      (8)   Failure to utilize safe and adequate equipment as set forth herein.
      (9)   Violations of motor vehicle laws and/or municipal ordinances.
      (10)   Failure or refusal to tow or remove a vehicle when requested to do
so by the appropriate municipal official.
   B.   In the event that the Chief of Police revokes or suspends a license
issued pursuant to this chapter, the applicant aggrieved thereby may appeal to
the governing body of the Town of Hammonton by written notice filed with the
Town Clerk within 30 days of the date of the revocation or suspension. Town
Council shall, at that time, set a date for the hearing, which shall take place
no sooner than 10 days nor later than 30 days from the date the request was
presented to Town Council. The governing body shall hear testimony from the
applicant, the Chief of Police or a police officer designated by him/her and
other witnesses as it deems fit and receive documents and evidence as it deems
fit, and thereupon affirm, deny or modify the action taken by the Chief of
Police.
§ 261-5. Tow/storage requirements; towing and storage of vehicles; and fee
schedule.
[Amended 11-16-2020 by Ord. No. 15-2020]
   A.   Tow requirements.
      (1)   The contractor shall provide, at a minimum, one or both of the
following pieces of equipment to be used to meet the terms of this chapter:
         (a)   One light-duty wrecker. These shall have commercially
manufactured chassis certified by the manufacturer for light-duty towing. Each
shall be equipped with commercially manufactured lifting apparatus with dual
rear wheels, safety chains, proper safety lights, rear floodlights and amber
rotation emergency flashing lights.
         (b)   One car carrier vehicle. These shall have commercially
manufactured chassis certified by the manufacturer. Each shall be equipped with
a hydraulically powered winch. The tilt bed or slid-back shall be hydraulically
operated. Each shall also be equipped with tiedown chains, proper safety lights
and amber rotation emergency flashing lights.
      (2)   Each tow vehicle shall be equipped with or contain equipment for
providing two-way communications via radio or cell phone with the contractor's
office facilities. These communications shall be available 24 hours a day,
seven days a week. Tow vehicles shall also be equipped at all times with safety
vests for operators, first aid kits, hand tools, a flashlight, broom, and work
gloves. The contractor shall not apply any additional charge for using this
equipment.
      (3)   The following equipment shall be carried on all tow vehicles:
         (a)   Push broom.
         (b)   Shovel.
         (c)   Fire extinguisher.
         (d)   Trash can/bag.
         (e)   Absorbent.
      (4)   All tow vehicles must comply with all applicable laws and safety
standards.
      (5)   The municipal towing contractor must maintain two phone numbers
that act as a 24 hour telephone service for police contact.
   B.   Storage requirements.
      (1)   The municipal towing contractor shall designate one storage
facility located in Hammonton, or if the municipal towing contractor does not
have a storage facility in Hammonton then within five miles of Hammonton, that
it shall store all cars towed pursuant to this chapter.
      (2)   All vehicles stored under this chapter shall be stored and
protected with ordinary care to protect the vehicle from further damage.
      (3)   There shall be no unescorted access to the storage area by the
general public. Storage areas shall be posted against unauthorized entry.
      (4)   The Police Department shall have access to any part of the storage
area, 24 hours a day, seven days a week, for the purpose of inspection or
investigation. Under this provision, access means a contact person must be
available to provide entry.
      (5)   No vehicles towed by the municipal towing contractor shall be
stored outside of the storage facility.
      (6)   The municipal towing contractor shall maintain regular hours for
the release of vehicle from storage; a minimum of eight hours a day, Monday
through Friday (excluding New Jersey state holidays) and four hours on
Saturdays. Hours shall be conspicuously posted at the municipal towing
contractor's principal location and the storage facility.
      (7)   If a vehicle is towed as a result of parking in a no-parking
location in the Town of Hammonton during a festival, parade, or other
sanctioned Town event, the municipal towing contractor shall make itself
available to release the vehicle that day provided the owner of the vehicle has
paid all fees to the Town and municipal towing contractor in accordance with
this chapter.
   C.   Towing and storage of vehicles.
      (1)   Towing services must be available 24 hours a day, seven days a
week. The municipal towing contractor must provide a tow vehicle to the
designated site within 20 minutes of being notified by the Hammonton Police
Department. Repeated late arrivals without satisfactory cause shall constitute
grounds in which the Chief of Police may consider the municipal towing
contractor in violation of this chapter and may be grounds for immediate
suspension or revocation of said license.
      (2)   Municipal towing contractors will be placed on call on a rotating
basis as determined by the Chief of Police.
      (3)   Municipal towing contractors shall be responsible for the towing of
vehicles from the public streets, public alleys, public rights-of-way, public
easements, avenues, thoroughfares, public or quasi-public places, including
parks and playgrounds, or any other Town, county or state owned facility, as
directed by the Town police.
      (4)   The municipal towing contractor shall remove vehicles for storage
to either the municipal towing contractor's storage facility or the Town
storage facility, as directed by the Police Department.
      (5)   Vehicles towed to the municipal towing contractor's storage
facility will incur charges as set forth in this chapter.
      (6)   Vehicles towed to the Town storage facility will incur only
applicable towing fees, not storage charges.
      (7)   Prior to release of a vehicle from the Town storage facility, the
Town will require the owner to satisfy his/her obligations to the municipal
towing contractor.
      (8)   In the event the police direct the municipal towing contractor to
move the vehicle from the Town storage facility to contractor's storage
facility, the owner of the vehicle will incur the cost of the additional tow
and storage fees commencing the date the vehicle is moved. The municipal towing
contractor that provided the original service will be requested to provide the
secondary service, as long as the contractor still holds a municipal towing
license from the Town of Hammonton.
      (9)   The owner of any vehicle towed shall have the right to remove his/
her personal belongings from the stored vehicle during normal business hours,
unless the vehicle is being held as evidence.
      (10)   The owner or agent of the owner shall have the right to photograph
the stored vehicle during normal business hours.
      (11)   When the municipal towing contractor has been contacted by the
Police Department to remove a disabled vehicle that is not impeding the flow of
traffic or a safety concern and then the owner or operator of that vehicle
appears prior to the municipal towing contractor's arrival and requests his/her
own towing service, the municipal towing contractor cannot charge for the
response.
      (12)   The municipal towing contractor shall be responsible to clean up
and remove all broken glass and debris at the scene of accidents as per
N.J.S.A. 39:4-56.8b and any amendments thereto.
      (13)   The municipal towing contractor will also be responsible for basic
environmental cleanup.
      (14)   In the event that an emergency arises and the on-call municipal
towing contractor cannot provide adequate service when requested by the Police
Department, another municipal towing contractor will be contacted to respond.
      (15)   If no municipal towing contractor can perform the required
service, the Police Department may contact any available towing contractor with
the proper equipment to perform the activity. The fees for vehicles that
require this extraordinary service shall be reasonable and customary, based
upon the prevailing rate in the industry. Whenever applicable, it shall be the
responsibility of the towing contractor to first inform the owner or operator
of the estimated total cost prior to the performance of any towing service.
      (16)   Municipal towing contractors may not charge any owner for any
damage to his/her tow equipment or storage facilities resulting from any towing
operation.
      (17)   Prior to towing any vehicle, the municipal towing contractor shall
remove or secure anything that may fall from the disabled vehicle while being
towed.
      (18)   No municipal towing contractor shall release a vehicle until a
Town of Hammonton Police Department vehicle release form is completed, signed
and filed with the Hammonton Police Department. An administrative fee of $25
shall be charged for the processing of the Hammonton Police Department vehicle
release form. Such fee is to be paid by the owner of the vehicle and collected
by the Town of Hammonton prior to a release being issued.
      (19)   Pursuant to N.J.S.A. 39:4-56.6, the municipal towing contractor
shall be responsible for the public sale or auction of any vehicle abandoned at
the municipal towing contractor's storage facility. The Town of Hammonton shall
only be responsible pursuant to N.J.S.A. 39:10A-1 et seq., for abandoned and
unclaimed vehicles at a Town-owned storage facility.
      (20)   In no event shall the Town of Hammonton be liable for any charges
or claims associated with the towing and/or storage of any vehicles towed or
stored under the terms of this chapter unless said vehicle is owned by the Town
of Hammonton and sold at public auction.
   D.   Fee schedule.
      (1)   Basic towing. Basic towing service shall be defined as: The removal
and transportation of an automobile from the incident scene to the contractor's
storage lot at the request or call of authorized personnel or members of the
Town of Hammonton Police Department as may be required when said automobile is
abandoned, disabled, damaged in accidents, illegally parked, recovered after
being stolen or, in the case of emergency, from a highway, street or other
public or private road, or from a parking area or from a storage facility,
basic clean up (including glass, debris and fluid), gate fee after hours, yard
fee, winching fee, additional cost for second tow truck, if needed, and
recovery of a vehicle not in an upright position in the right-of-way only. It
does not include recovery of an automobile from a position beyond the right-of-
way or berm, being impaled upon any other object within the right-of-way or
berm, or any further services provided by the contractor.
      (2)   The maximum fees municipal towing contractors shall charge for
basic towing service shall be as follows:
         (a)   Basic towing service (two axles).
            (i)   Under 10,000 pounds gross vehicle weight: $140.
            (ii)   Additional axle: $25.
            (iii)   Rate per mile out of Town: $3.
         (b)   Basic towing service (two axles).
            (i)   Between 10,001 pounds and 16,000 pounds gross vehicle weight:
$215.
            (ii)   Additional axle: $35.
            (iii)   Rate per mile out of Town: $4.
         (c)   Basic towing service, over 16,001 pounds gross vehicle weight
(heavy duty): $300.
            (i)   Rate per mile out of Town: $5.
         (d)   Basic towing service, motorcycle/motorized bicycle: $100.
            (i)   Rate per mile out of Town: $3
         (e)   Recovery of vehicle not in an upright position within the right-
of-way.
            (i)   Vehicle under 8,000 pounds gross vehicle weight: $75.
            (ii)   Vehicle between 8,000 pounds and 16,000 pounds gross vehicle
weight: $100.
            (iii)   Fees for vehicles over 16,000 pounds gross vehicle weight
shall be reasonable and customary, based on prevailing rates in the industry.
         (f)   Cost for a second tow truck if needed: $75 per hour.
         (g)   Basic cleanup, including glass, debris and fluid: $35, plus $17
per bag of absorbent used.
         (h)   Storage fees per calendar day (commencing 12 hours after the
request for tow).
            (i)   Outside building secured.
               [1]   Under 8,000 pounds gross vehicle weight: $35.
               [2]   Up to 16,000 pounds gross vehicle weight: $40.
            (ii)   Inside building secured.
               [1]   Up to 16,000 pounds gross vehicle weight: $50.
            (iii)   Fees for vehicles over 16,000 pounds gross vehicle weight
shall be reasonable and customary, based on prevailing rates in the industry.
         (i)   Where a vehicle is stored as a result of having been involved in
a fatal motor vehicle accident or incident, the permitted storage fees shall
not start to be incurred until the eighth calendar day after the owner or
owner's representative is notified by the Police Department that the vehicle
can be released.
         (j)   Owner access to vehicle. Any owner requesting access to the
owner's vehicle at the storage facility to retrieve items from the vehicle may
be charged a fee of $40.
         (k)   After-hours release fee (Gate Fee): $40.
         (l)   Yard fee: $40
         (m)   Winching fee: $125
      (3)   Non-basic towing.
         (a)   Non-basic towing shall be defined as: All towing services that
are not basic towing services or private passenger automobiles.
         (b)   This chapter is not intended to regulate or set fees for non-
basic towing services or the towing and storage of trucks and buses. Such
service, if required, shall be billed at reasonable prevailing rates. The
towing contractor shall submit a list of fees in advance for non-basic towing
services to the Chief of Police, who shall have the sole discretion in
determining the maximum fees permitted.
      (4)   Municipal vehicles. The maximum charge for towing Hammonton
municipal vehicles, for both basic and non-basic towing, whether from within
the Town of Hammonton or outside the Town of Hammonton to any designated
municipal impound lot or other location shall be $100.00.
§ 261-6. Insurance requirements.
[Amended 11-16-2020 by Ord. No. 15-2020]
   A.   Towing contractors shall be required to purchase, maintain and provide
during the time of service on the rotary list proof of insurance furnished by a
reputable insurance company licensed to do business in the State of New Jersey,
containing the following coverages with liability limits as set forth below:
      (1)   Garage liability/comprehensive general liability insurance policy
in an amount not less than $1,000,000 combined single limit coverage bodily
injury and property damage liability, including but not limited to personal
injury, products liability (where applicable), independent contractor and
completed operation coverage.
      (2)   Garagekeepers legal liability "direct primary" insurance policy in
an amount not less than $100,000. Said policy must include both comprehensive
and collision and an endorsement to include on hook.
      (3)   Automobile liability insurance policy in an amount not less than
$1,000,000 combined single limit covering bodily injury and property damage
liability including but not limited to owned, nonowned and hired vehicles.
      (4)   Workers' compensation insurance as required by law, including, but
not limited to, statutory New Jersey Workers' Compensation benefits, and
employers liability of at least $100,000.
      (5)   Excess/umbrella liability. In the event that a garage liability
and/or automobile liability cannot be purchased up to the required limit of
$1,000,000, an excess liability or umbrella liability policy must be purchased
to effect a total liability limit of $1,000,000. Excess or umbrella liability
policies will not be required for garage or automobile policies that meet or
exceed the minimum limit of $1,000,000.
      (6)   The garage liability policy shall name the Town of Hammonton as
additional insured and certificate holder.
§ 261-7. Recordkeeping.
[Amended 11-16-2020 by Ord. No. 15-2020]
   A.   The municipal towing contractor shall prepare and issue to the owner/
operator a written invoice for services rendered under this chapter. The
invoice shall reflect the date, time, location of service, the employee that
performed the service and that the service was performed at the direction of
the Police Department. A copy of the invoice shall be retained by the municipal
towing contractor and filed in a manner that coincides with his normal business
practice and will allow immediate access to such records when requested by the
Police Department.
   B.   The municipal towing contractor has discretion to establish the method
of payment and forfeits all mechanic lien rights once he/she physically
releases a vehicle from his/her custody. The Town will not be held liable for
or assist the municipal towing contractor to collect any unpaid fees that were
incurred under the provisions of this chapter.
   C.   The municipal towing contractor shall incur the cost of and shall post
the rate schedule listed in this chapter in a conspicuous location at the
municipal towing contractor's principal location where payment of fees are
transacted.
   D.   The municipal towing contractor shall not release any vehicle impounded
under this chapter without written release from the Police Department. The
release form must be attached and filed with the invoice.
   E.   All records, payment invoices and other documentation resulting from
the municipal towing contractor's compliance with this chapter must be kept by
the municipal towing contractor for a period of two years.
§ 261-8. Right to request specific towing service; applicability.
[Amended 11-16-2020 by Ord. No. 15-2020]
   Nothing in this chapter shall control the right of any towing service to tow
a vehicle where a specific towing service in the Town of Hammonton is requested
by an owner. In like fashion, this chapter shall not apply to vehicles towed
from private property. This chapter applies exclusively to vehicles that are
either disabled or abandoned on a public road or highway of the Town of
Hammonton.
§ 261-9. Complaints; violations and penalties.
[Amended 11-16-2020 by Ord. No. 15-2020]
Nothing within §
261-5 of this chapter shall prevent the Police Department and the members
thereof from making a complaint against a towing service operator for violating
the provisions of this chapter, which shall be heard before the Municipal Judge
of the Town of Hammonton. Said complaint may issue either for a violation of a
particular provision(s) of the contract executed by the towing service under §
261-4 of this chapter or, in the alternative, may charge an unlisted towing
service with providing said services within the Town of Hammonton without
qualifying for the list established under §
261-2. If a particular towing service is found guilty of such a violation, the
proprietor thereof shall be subject to one or more of the following: a fine of
not more than $1,000, imprisonment for a period not to exceed 90 days or a
period of community service not to exceed 90 days for each violation, to be
imposed at the discretion of the Municipal Judge of the Town of Hammonton. The
right to make a complaint under this section shall be a separate remedy which
may be imposed in addition to a proceeding instituted before the Mayor and
Council to remove a towing service from the list under §
261-2 of this chapter. If the Police Department or the members thereof elect to
seek both remedies, the hearing as to being removed from the list shall be
deferred until the Municipal Judge hears the complaint for violating the
ordinance.
CHAPTER 264.
TRAILERS AND TRAILER CAMPS
[HISTORY: Adopted by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton 9-
13-1971 by Ord. No. 10-1971 as Ch. 150 of the 1971 Code. Amendments noted where
applicable.]
   
§ 264-1.   Definitions.
   
§ 264-2.   Placing certain vehicles on permanent foundations prohibited.
   
§ 264-3.   Use of certain vehicles for dwellings.
   
§ 264-4.   Licenses required.
   
§ 264-5.   Trailer camp and trailer license fees.
   
§ 264-6.   Applications for licenses or transfers.
   
§ 264-7.   Requirements for trailer camps.
   
§ 264-8.   Prior approval of site; prohibited area.
   
§ 264-9.   Water supply.
   
§ 264-10.   Sanitation facilities.
   
§ 264-11.   Laundry facilities.
   
§ 264-12.   Sewage disposal and drainage facilities.
   
§ 264-13.   Garbage and refuse facilities.
   
§ 264-14.   Fire prevention equipment.
   
§ 264-15.   Restrictions on pets.
   
§ 264-16.   Camp register.
   
§ 264-17.   Revocation of licenses.
   
§ 264-18.   Posting of trailer camp license.
   
§ 264-19.   Exemption of certain persons during religious festivals.
   
§ 264-20.   Violations and penalties.
GENERAL REFERENCES
   Definition of manufactured home — See
Ch. 147.
   Litter receptacles in trailer parks — See
Ch. 184.
   Setting up trailers in parks — See
Ch. 200, §
200-4.
§ 264-1. Definitions.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
indicated:
   PERSON
   Any individual, firm, trust, partnership, association or corporation.
   TRAILER
   Any movable or portable structure so designed so as to permit occupancy for
dwelling or sleeping purposes, and shall also be defined to include tents.
   TRAILER CAMP
   Any plot or tract of land upon which one or more trailers shall be located.
   TRAILER SPACE
   A plot of land within a trailer camp designed for the accommodation of one
trailer.
§ 264-2. Placing certain vehicles on permanent foundations prohibited.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or permit to be placed any
trailer, bus, bus body, truck, truck body, trailer, van, railroad car,
temporary building or movable vehicle on a permanent foundation or piers in the
Town of Hammonton.
§ 264-3. Use of certain vehicles for dwellings.
   No bus, bus body, truck, truck body, van, railroad car or tractor-trailer
body shall be used or be permitted to be used for dwelling purposes in the Town
of Hammonton.
§ 264-4. Licenses required.
   No person shall park or permit to be parked any trailer, as herein defined,
for dwelling purposes, either temporarily or permanently upon any street or
plot of land within the Town of Hammonton except in a trailer camp; and no
person shall park or permit to be parked any trailer in a trailer camp unless
such person first obtained a license therefor.
§ 264-5. Trailer camp and trailer license fees.
   A.   The annual license fee for each trailer camp containing five trailer
spaces or less shall be $100; for each additional five trailer spaces or
fraction thereof, there shall be an additional annual fee of $25, said fees to
be paid in advance.
   B.   The annual license fee for parking each trailer in a trailer camp shall
be $50 per trailer, payable in advance.
   C.   The above-mentioned fees are hereby deemed necessary in order to
collect sufficient revenue to pay the additional cost and expense to the Town
of Hammonton by reason of the inspection of same by the agents of the Town of
Hammonton; and the additional cost to said town for:
      (1)   The use of its water and sewer system, if at all;
      (2)   The fire protection and police protection to be furnished to the
said trailer camps; and
      (3)   The maintenance of the educational facilities which would be
furnished to the occupants of said trailers.
§ 264-6. Applications for licenses or transfers.
   A.   Applications for a trailer camp license or for a license to park or
locate a trailer in a trailer camp shall be made in writing to the Town Clerk/
Administrator and shall contain the following:
      (1)   Name and address of the applicant.
      (2)   The location and description of the trailer camp or the trailer,
together with the land upon which it is to be parked.
      (3)   If for a trailer camp, a complete plan of the camp showing
compliance with this and all other sections of this chapter.
      (4)   Any further information that may be requested by the Mayor and
Common Council or the Board of Adjustment of the Town of Hammonton to enable it
or them to determine if the proposed camp will comply with all legal
requirements.
   B.   The application, if for a trailer camp license, shall be filed in
triplicate: one for the Mayor and Common Council, one for the Board of
Adjustment (Building Inspector) and one for the Chief of Police, who shall
investigate the applicant for a trailer camp and the location proposed therefor
and inspect the proposed plans and specifications. If the applicant is found to
be of good moral character and the proposed trailer camp will be in compliance
with all provisions of this chapter and other ordinances or statutes, the Mayor
and Common Council may in its discretion, upon the recommendation of the Board
of Adjustment and Chief of Police, approve the application, and upon completion
of the camp, may issue the license.
   C.   Upon application for a transfer of the trailer camp license to another
person, the Mayor and Common Council shall issue a transfer if the Chief of
Police shall report that the transferee is of good moral character.
§ 264-7. Requirements for trailer camps.
   Trailer camps shall conform to the following requirements:
   A.   The camp shall be located upon a site properly graded and acceptable to
the Mayor and Common Council as to drainage and health conditions.
   B.   Each trailer space provided shall consist of 690 square feet and shall
be at least 23 feet wide and clearly defined. Trailers shall be so placed or
parked on each trailer space so there shall be at least a fifteen-foot
clearance between trailers. No trailer shall be located closer than 20 feet
from any property line abutting the trailer camp.
   C.   All trailer spaces shall abut upon a driveway not less than 20 feet in
width, which shall have access to a public street. All driveways shall be well
marked and lighted at night with twenty-five-watt lamps (minimum) at intervals
of 100 feet, located approximately 10 to 12 feet above the ground.
   D.   Each camp shall provide service buildings to house toilet facilities,
bathing facilities, laundry facilities and other sanitary facilities as
hereinafter more particularly described.
   E.   Each trailer space shall be provided with an electrical outlet
supplying at least 110 volts.
§ 264-8. Prior approval of site; prohibited area.
   No trailer camp shall be located on any site in the Town of Hammonton unless
said site shall first be approved by the Board of Adjustment of the Town of
Hammonton, provided nevertheless that no trailer camp shall be permitted in the
area of the Town of Hammonton bounded and described as follows: Beginning at
the intersection of the southwesterly line of the White Horse Pike and the
southeasterly line of Fairview Avenue and extends thence southeastwardly along
the said line of White Horse Pike to the northwestwardly line of Eighth Street;
thence southwestwardly along the said line of Eighth Street to the
northeasterly line of First Road; thence northwestwardly along the said line of
First Road to the southeasterly line of Thirteenth Street; thence
northwestwardly along the said line of Thirteenth Street and the said line of
Fairview Avenue to the said line of White Horse Pike and the point and place of
beginning.
§ 264-9. Water supply.
   An adequate supply of pure water for drinking and domestic purposes shall be
supplied to meet the requirements of the camp. The water supply shall be
obtained from faucets only. Cold-water-supply faucets shall be located on each
trailer space. Hot water shall be provided at all times in the service
buildings for bathing and laundry facilities.
§ 264-10. Sanitation facilities.
   Each trailer camp shall be provided with toilets, baths or showers, slop
sinks and other sanitation facilities which conform with the following
requirements:
   A.   Toilet facilities for men and women shall be either in separate
buildings at least 10 feet apart, or if in the same building, shall be
separated by a soundproof wall.
   B.   Toilet facilities for women shall consist of not less than one flush
toilet for every 10 trailer spaces and one shower or bathtub for every 10
trailer spaces and one lavatory for every 20 trailer spaces. Each toilet,
shower or bathtub shall be in a private compartment.
   C.   Toilet facilities for men shall consist of not less than one flush
toilet for every 15 trailer spaces, one shower or bathtub for every 10 trailer
spaces, one lavatory for every 10 trailer spaces and one urinal for every 15
trailer spaces. Each toilet, shower or bathtub shall be in a private
compartment.
   D.   Service buildings housing these toilet facilities shall be permanent
structures complying with all applicable ordinances and statutes regulating
buildings, electrical, plumbing and sanitation systems, and shall be located
not closer than 10 feet nor farther than 200 feet from any trailer space.
   E.   Each service building shall contain at least one slop sink for each sex
and shall be located in a separate compartment.
   F.   The service buildings shall be well lighted, shall be well ventilated
with screened openings, shall be constructed of such materials as shall permit
repeated cleaning and washing, and shall be maintained at a temperature of at
least 68° F. during the period from October 1 to May 1. The floors of the
service buildings shall be of water-impervious material and shall slope to a
floor drain connected with an approved sewage disposal system.
§ 264-11. Laundry facilities.
   Laundry facilities shall be provided in the ratio of one double laundry tub
and electric outlet and ironing board for every 20 trailers spaces. Drying
spaces shall be provided sufficient to accommodate the laundry of the trailer
occupants. The service building housing the laundry facilities shall be a
permanent structure complying with all applicable ordinances and statutes
regulating buildings, electrical, plumbing and sanitation sewerages and
systems.
§ 264-12. Sewage disposal and drainage facilities.
   Sewage and refuse from showers, bathtubs, toilets, slop sinks and laundries
shall be discharged into a sewer system, disposal plant, septic tank or
cesspool system of such construction and in such manner as will present no
health hazard and in compliance with applicable ordinances and/or statutes. All
kitchen sinks, washbasins, bath or shower tubs in any trailer harbored or
parked in any trailer camp may empty into a sanitary drain located on the
trailer space.
§ 264-13. Garbage and refuse facilities.
   Covered metal garbage cans or refuse incinerators shall be provided to
adequately permit disposal or destruction of all garbage and rubbish. The cans
or incinerators shall be kept in sanitary conditions at all times. Garbage and
rubbish not burned or destroyed shall be collected and disposed of at least
once each week.
§ 264-14. Fire prevention equipment.
   Every trailer camp shall be equipped at all times with one soda-and-acid-
type fire extinguisher of five-gallon capacity in good working order for every
10 trailer spaces, located not farther than 200 feet from each trailer space.
No open fires shall be permitted at any place which would endanger life or
property, nor shall any open fire be left unattended at any time.
§ 264-15. Restrictions on pets.
Editor's Note: See Ch. 84, Animals. No owner or person in charge of any dog,
cat or other pet animal shall permit it to run at large or to commit any
nuisance within the limits of any trailer camp.
§ 264-16. Camp register.
   A.   It shall be the duty of the trailer camp licensee to keep a register of
all trailer owners and occupants located within the trailer camp. The register
shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The make, model and year of all trailers.
      (2)   The license number and owner of all trailers and automobiles by
which they are towed, and the state issuing such licenses.
      (3)   The name and address of each occupant of each trailer.
      (4)   The dates of arrival and departure of each trailer.
   B.   The trailer camp licensee shall keep the register available for
inspection at all times by law enforcement officers, public health officials
and other officials whose duties would require the acquisition of the
information therein contained. No register shall be destroyed for a period of
three years following the date of registration.
§ 264-17. Revocation of licenses.
   The Mayor and Common Council may revoke any license to maintain and operate
a trailer camp when the licensee has been found guilty by a court of competent
jurisdiction of violating any provision of this chapter. Such license may be
reissued or reinstated only if the circumstances leading to the conviction have
been remedied and the camp is being maintained and operated in full compliance
with this chapter and other applicable ordinances and/or statutes.
§ 264-18. Posting of trailer camp license.
   The license certificate for the trailer camp shall be conspicuously posted
in the office or on the premises of each trailer camp at all times.
§ 264-19. Exemption of certain persons during religious festivals.
   The provisions and sections of this chapter shall not be held to apply to
the parking or placing of trailers in the Town of Hammonton during the
religious festival periods of June 24, July 16 and August 15 of each year, if
the occupants of said trailers are engaged in the religious celebration
activity.
§ 264-20. Violations and penalties.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction before the Municipal Judge of the Town of Hammonton or other proper
court, be subject to one or more of the following: a fine of not more than
$1,000, imprisonment for a period not to exceed 90 days or a period of
community service not to exceed 90 days.
CHAPTER 267.
TREES
[HISTORY: Adopted by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton as
indicated in article histories. Amendments noted where applicable.]
ARTICLE I.
Planting, Protection and Improvement
   
§ 267-1.   Permit required for certain acts.
   
§ 267-2.   Electric wires.
   
§ 267-3.   Animals.
   
§ 267-4.   Brine, gas or injurious chemicals.
   
§ 267-5.   Interference with Environmental Commission.
   
§ 267-6.   Enforcement; violations and penalties.
ARTICLE II.
Tree Preservation and Maintenance
   
§ 267-7.   Title.
   
§ 267-8.   Purposes.
   
§ 267-9.   Intent.
   
§ 267-10.   Definitions and word usage.
   
§ 267-11.   Permit requirements.
   
§ 267-12.   Application fees.
   
§ 267-13.   Exceptions to permit requirement.
   
§ 267-14.   Standards for consideration.
   
§ 267-15.   Protection of existing trees during development.
   
§ 267-16.   Planting of new trees.
   
§ 267-17.   Right to appeal.
   
§ 267-18.   Enforcement; violations and penalties.
GENERAL REFERENCES
   Environmental Commission — See
Ch. 6, Art. III.
   Trees blocking house numbers — See
Ch. 104, §
104-4.
   Land development — See
Ch. 175, §§
175-91,
175-104 and
175-125.
   Posting notices on trees — See
Ch. 184, §
184-18.
   Damaging trees in parks — See
Ch. 200, §
200-4.
   Cutting trees to install satellite earth stations — See
Ch. 220, §
220-5.
Article I.
Planting, Protection and Improvement
[Adopted 9-13-1971 by Ord. No. 10-1971 as Art. I of Ch. 134 of the 1971 Code;
amended in its entirety 8-23-2010 by Ord. No. 16-2010]
§ 267-1. Permit required for certain acts.
   No person, firm or corporation shall do or cause to be done any of the
following acts upon a public right-of-way within the Town of Hammonton without
the written permission of the Environmental Commission:
   A.   Cut, trim, break, climb with spikes, disturb the roots of or otherwise
injure, spray with any chemical or remove any living tree or shrub; or injure,
misuse or remove any structure or device placed to support or protect such tree
or shrub.
   B.   Plant any tree or shrub.
   C.   Fasten any rope, wire, electric attachments, sign or other device to a
tree or shrub or to any guard about such tree or shrub.
   D.   Close or obstruct any open space provided about the base of a tree or
shrub to permit the access of air, water or fertilizer to the roots of such
tree or shrub.
§ 267-2. Electric wires.
   Every person, firm or corporation having control over any wire for the
transmission of an electric current along a public right-of-way shall at all
times guard all trees through which or near which such wire passes against any
injury from the wire or from the electric current carried by it. The device or
means used shall in every case be subject to approval by the Environmental
Commission.
§ 267-3. Animals.
   No person, firm or corporation shall hitch or fasten any animal to any tree
or shrub upon a public right-of-way or to any guard or support provided for the
same.
§ 267-4. Brine, gas or injurious chemicals.
   No person, firm or corporation shall permit any brine, gas or injurious
chemical to come in contact with the stem or roots of any tree or shrub upon a
public right-of-way.
§ 267-5. Interference with Environmental Commission.
   No person, firm or corporation shall prevent, delay or interfere with any
lawful work undertaken by the Environmental Commission or its authorized agent.
§ 267-6. Enforcement; violations and penalties.
   A.   The provisions of this article will be enforced by the Town Code
Enforcement Officer.
   B.   Any person, firm or corporation who or which shall violate any
provision of this article shall be subject for each violation to one or more of
the following:
      (1)   A mandatory fine of not less than $300 and not more than $1,000.
      (2)   A period of community service focused on the parks and open spaces
of the Town of Hammonton not to exceed 30 hours for each offense.
      (3)   Replacement of the total caliper of the trees improperly removed,
to be installed either on the property from which they were removed or donated
to the Town of Hammonton for community planting.
   C.   Each day on which trees are removed will constitute a separate
violation. In addition, any tree having a diameter in excess of 20 inches which
is removed in violation of this article shall also be considered a separate
offence.
   D.   For repeat offenses, the minimum mandatory fine is $500.
Article II.
Tree Preservation and Maintenance
[Adopted 5-24-1993 by Ord. No. 10-1993; amended in its entirety 8-23-2010 by
Ord. No. 16-2010]
§ 267-7. Title.
   This article shall be known as the "Town of Hammonton Tree Preservation and
Maintenance Ordinance."
§ 267-8. Purposes.
   The purposes of this article are to establish protective regulations for
trees within the boundaries of the Town of Hammonton in order to control
problems of flooding, soil erosion and air and noise pollution and to make the
Town of Hammonton a healthier and safer place in which to live.
§ 267-9. Intent.
   The intent of this article is to encourage the protection of the maximum
number of healthy trees and of large-specimen trees throughout the town. The
intent is not punitive nor intended to cause hardship to any individual or
private or public company that has taken reasonable care and diligence to
protect the trees within the Town of Hammonton or that wishes to remove a tree
for just cause within the provisions of this article.
§ 267-10. Definitions and word usage.
   A.   As used herein, the following terms have the definitions indicated:
   COMMUNITY BUILDINGS
   Schools, hospitals, churches, clubs, lodges or any such building used by an
organization or group or by the public generally.
   CROWN
   The branches and foliage of a tree; the upper portion of a tree.
   DEVELOPED LOT
   Any lot on the Municipal Tax Map that is assessed for an improvement of any
kind, except a billboard.
   FLAGGING
   Any removable tagging of trees.
   LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT
   A person registered as a landscape architect by the State of New Jersey.
   PERMIT
   Any permit, in writing, as issued by a town official.
   PERSON
   Any individual person, association, company, corporation or similar group.
   QUALIFIED PROFESSIONAL FORESTER
   A person who has a B.S. degree from a four-year school of forestry
accredited by the Society of American Foresters.
   STREET TREE
   Any woody perennial plant usually having one or more main trunks and the
potential to reach the height of 10 feet or more located within the easement
area adjacent to a municipal, county or state right-of-way on within said
right-of-way.
   TOWN TREE
   Any woody perennial plant on property owned, leased or otherwise under the
exclusive jurisdiction of the Town of Hammonton or any other governmental
entity.
   TREE
   Any woody perennial plant usually having one or more main trunks and the
potential to reach the height of 10 feet or more.
   TREE DIAMETER
   The width of a tree measured 4 1/2 feet above the ground.
   TREE DRIPLINE
   The marking where the outer edge of a tree's branches overhangs the ground.
   TREE EXPERT
   A person who meets the qualifications set forth in N.J.S.A. 45:15C-1 et seq.
and has been certified by the Board of Tree Experts established by the
Department of Environmental Protection.
   TREE REMOVAL
   The cutting down or other displacement of a tree, either chemically or
mechanically.
   TREE ROOT AREA
   The area under a tree extending from the trunk to the dripline.
   B.   The singular number shall include the plural, and the plural number
shall include the singular, unless the context is clearly denoted otherwise.
§ 267-11. Permit requirements.
   A.   Street trees.
      (1)   No person or entity, directly or indirectly, without first
obtaining the approval of the Environmental Commission, shall remove or
relocate any street tree.
      (2)   No person shall be permitted to prune a street tree so severely as
to show evidence, within a period of two years, of irreparable harm leading to
the ultimate death of a tree.
      (3)   Whenever a street tree obstructs, interferes or impedes vehicular
or pedestrian traffic or in any way causes any damage to a sidewalk, the
Environmental Commission may cause the removal of the tree. All attempts short
of removal shall first be employed prior to removal of the tree.
      (4)   Whenever possible, trees removed pursuant to this section shall be
replaced with new plantings.
      (5)   The applicant must provide three copies of the tree removal permit
application to the Code Enforcement Official and/or Building Inspector. A copy
shall also be provided to the Chairperson of the Environmental Commission, or
approved designee, who shall then decide if the application should be reviewed
by the entire Environmental Commission. In the event that it is to be reviewed
by the entire Commission, the procedure outlined in § 267-11C(3) of this
article shall be followed.
   B.   Town trees.
      (1)   No person or entity, directly or indirectly, without first
obtaining the approval of the Environmental Commission, shall remove or
relocate any Town tree.
      (2)   No person shall be permitted to prune a Town tree so severely as to
show evidence, within a period of two years, of irreparable harm leading to the
ultimate death of a tree.
      (3)   Whenever a Town tree obstructs, interferes with or impedes
vehicular or pedestrian traffic or in any way causes any damage to a sidewalk
creating an unreasonable risk of injury or damage to persons or property, the
Environmental Commission may authorize the removal of the tree. All attempts
short of removal shall first be employed prior to removal of the tree.
      (4)   Whenever possible, trees removed trees pursuant to this section,
shall be replaced with new plantings.
      (5)   The applicant must provide three copies of the tree removal permit
application to the Code Enforcement Official and/or Building Inspector. A copy
shall also be provided to the Chairperson of the Environmental Commission, or
his/her approved designee, who shall then decide if the application should be
reviewed by the entire Environmental Commission. In the event that it is to be
reviewed by the entire Commission, the procedure outlined in § 267-11C(3) of
this article shall be followed.
   C.   Trees on new development lots.
      (1)   No person or entity, directly or indirectly, without first
obtaining a tree removal permit, shall remove any tree for purposes of
development of vacant lots in the Town of Hammonton.
      (2)   Applications for a tree removal permit, pursuant to this section,
shall include the following, and such shall be supplied when application is
made for a subdivision, site plan or planned development:
         (a)   The name(s), address and telephone number of the property owner.
         (b)   The block and lot numbers of property on which trees are
located.
         (c)   A sketch map showing approximate locations of all wooded areas
on lots.
         (d)   A statement of the reason for tree removal.
         (e)   The flagging of trees to be removed so that they can be
identified by municipal personnel.
         (f)   The area of the entire tract.
         (g)   The location of all existing trees having a diameter of 15
inches or greater, by species, size and condition.
         (h)   A topographical map of the property.
         (i)   A map of location and surrounding properties approximating
wooded areas.
         (j)   The location of streams and wetlands.
         (k)   The location of trees to be either removed or planted in
relation to the principal and accessory buildings, roads and driveways, parking
lots, garden areas, septic systems, etc.
         (l)   The grading plans.
      (3)   All applicants must provide three copies of the applications to the
Environmental Commission for its review prior to any permit being issued for
tree removal or development on the property or receipt of Planning Board
approval. The Environmental Commission shall receive all pending applications
seven days prior to its next scheduled meeting for purpose of review. Any
recommendations or comments shall be forwarded by the Environmental Commission
to the Planning Board and/or Building Inspector within 30 days of the
Environmental Commission meeting. In the event that the Environmental
Commission recommends disapproval of the plan as submitted, it shall specify,
in writing, the reason(s) for the recommendation. This recommendation shall be
considered and made part of the permanent record before the Planning Board or
Building Inspector.
   D.   Trees on developed lots.
      (1)   No person or entity, directly or indirectly, without first
obtaining a tree removal permit, shall be allowed to remove from a developed
lot any of the following:
         (a)   Any tree 20 inches or greater in diameter.
         (b)   Any 10 or more trees per acre or less, which trees are seven
inches or greater in diameter.
      (2)   Application for a tree removal permit under this section shall
include the following:
         (a)   The name(s), address and telephone number of the property owner.
         (b)   The block and lot numbers of property on which trees are
located.
         (c)   A sketch map showing approximate locations of all wooded areas
on lots.
         (d)   A statement of the reason for tree removal.
         (e)   The flagging of trees to be removed so they can be identified by
municipal personnel.
      (3)   The applicant must provide three copies of the tree removal permit
application to the Code Enforcement Official and/or Building Inspector. A copy
shall also be provided to the Chairperson of the Environmental Commission, or
approved designee, who shall then decide if the application should be reviewed
by the entire Environmental Commission. In the event that it is to be reviewed
by the entire Commission, the procedure outlined in § 267-11C(3) of this
article shall be followed.
§ 267-12. Application fees.
   A.   For the issuance of a permit, the applicant shall pay to the Town of
Hammonton the following fees, based upon the application required:
      (1)   Street trees (covered under §
267-11A): No fee will be required unless the applicant wishes to have his/her
permit reviewed by a certified tree expert either upon initial review or as an
appeal to a disapproval of the permit by the Environmental Commission. A fee of
$50 will be provided to defray the cost of the expert evaluation and analysis
to be performed by a certified tree expert, who shall issue his/her findings
and recommendation(s) to the Environmental Commission.
      (2)   Trees on new development lots (covered under §
267-11C): $50 to defray the cost of the evaluation and analysis to be performed
by a certified tree expert, who shall issue his/her findings and recommendation
(s) to the Environmental Commission.
      (3)   Trees on developed lots (covered under §
267-11D): No fee will be required unless the applicant wishes to have his/her
permit reviewed by a certified tree expert either upon initial review or as an
appeal to a disapproval of the permit by the Environmental Commission. A fee of
$50 will be provided to defray the cost of the expert evaluation and analysis
to be performed by a certified expert, who shall issue his/her findings and
recommendations to the Environmental Commission.
      (4)   Minor development of one single-family resident where the removal
of fewer than 10 trees is required: $25.
      (5)   Any minor subdivision of two or more lots or a minor site plan
development where the removal of the trees is required: $150 plus escrow fees.
      (6)   Any major subdivision or major site plan development where the
removal of trees is required: $500 plus escrow fees.
   B.   Fees collected under this article shall be used by the Environmental
Commission for expert tree evaluations for permit requests and other
Environmental Commission initiatives.
§ 267-13. Exceptions to permit requirement.
   The following trees may be removed without filing a permit application:
   A.   Trees directed to be removed by municipal, county or state authority,
pursuant to law. Municipal construction projects and Board of Education
construction projects are specifically not exempted.
   B.   Any tree that is an imminent threat to life or property, as documented
by photographs or certified tree experts.
   C.   Any completely dead tree, as determined by a landscape architect,
qualified professional forester or certified tree expert. It is the
responsibility of the homeowners to verify the credentials of a tree expert.
The qualified expert must be able to provide written evidence of such
evaluation upon request.
   D.   Any tree which is part of a nursery, garden center, Christmas tree
plantation orchard or cemetery.
   E.   Any tree allowed to be removed for agricultural purposes.
§ 267-14. Standards for consideration.
   The following standards and conditions shall be used by the appropriate
review:
   A.   The necessity to remove trees which pose a safety hazard to pedestrian
or vehicular traffic or threaten to cause disruption of public services.
   B.   The necessity to remove trees which pose a safety hazard to buildings.
   C.   The necessity to remove diseased trees; trees infested with destructive
insects liable to infect the healthy trees on adjacent property; or trees
weakened by age, storms, fire or other injury.
   D.   The necessity to observe good forestry practices, i.e., the number of
healthy trees that a given parcel of land will support, when documented by a
report prepared on behalf of the developer by a qualified professional forester
or a registered landscape architect.
   E.   The necessity for compliance with other codes, such as zoning and
subdivision regulations and health and other environmental ordinances.
   F.   The necessity to preserve a fifty-foot tree buffer zone at the edge of
a stream, wetlands or other similar bodies of water.
   G.   The necessity to preserve an adequate buffer zone of trees and shrubs
around multiple-dwelling areas, cluster developments and commercial or
industrial establishments to screen for noise, sight, aesthetic value and/or
size or height of buildings.
   H.   The necessity to prohibit tree removal from any slope if it will
contribute, in the opinion of the Planning Board, Environmental Commission,
Building Inspector or Town Engineer, to extra runoff of surface water onto
adjoining properties and erosion and silting, unless other means approved by
the Planning Board are provided to prevent runoff and erosion.
   I.   The necessity to preserve healthy trees that are special by virtue of
history, unusual size or age or are of a rare species.
   J.   Other conditions which, in the judgment of the Environmental
Commission, warrant consideration.
§ 267-15. Protection of existing trees during development.
   A.   Protection from mechanical injury.
      (1)   All trees to be retained within 25 feet of a building site and
lining ingress or egress roads, parking areas and utility easements shall be
protected from equipment damage by wrapping the trunk with a section of snow
fence or boards wired together. All exposed roots, trunks and low-hanging
branches shall be equally protected. Groups of trees may be protected by
fencing the entire area where they are located.
      (2)   Heavy-equipment operators shall be careful not to damage existing
tree trunks and roots. Feeder roots shall not be cut closer than 25 feet to
tree trunks.
      (3)   Tree trunks and exposed roots damaged during construction shall be
protected from further damage by being treated immediately by a certified tree
expert.
      (4)   Tree limbs damaged during construction shall be treated pursuant to
the instruction of a tree expert.
      (5)   The operation of heavy equipment over root systems shall be
minimized in order to prevent soil compaction.
      (6)   Deciduous trees shall be given an application of a slow-release,
low-nitrogen, all-purpose fertilizer to aid in their recovery from possible
damage caused by construction operations. Such application shall be made by a
qualified professional, according to appropriate rates.
      (7)   Trees shall not be used for roping, cables, signs or fencing. Nails
and spikes shall not be driven into trees.
      (8)   The area around the base of existing trees shall be left open to
provide access for water and nutrients. Therefore, no impervious cover and no
storage of equipment, materials, debris or fill shall be allowed within the
drip line of any existing tree, except as may be necessary for a maximum of
three months if no other storage space is available.
   B.   Protection from grade change.
      (1)   Raising the grade. If the proposed grade of the land located within
six feet of a tree is to be raised more than six inches, the developer shall
install either:
         (a)   A system of gravel and drain tiles at the old soil level opening
into a dry well built around the trunk and designed for each tree, individually
fitting the contour of the land so that it drains water away from the tree
trunk; or
         (b)   A retaining wall between the existing grade and the higher
grade.
      (2)   Lowering the grade. If the proposed grade of the land located
within six feet of a tree is to be lowered by more than six inches, the
developer shall initiate one of the following methods to protect trees:
         (a)   Terracing the grade; or
         (b)   Installing a retaining wall between the existing grade and the
lower grade.
      (3)   If the proposed grade change, in the opinion of the Town Engineer
or the Environmental Commission, is too excessive to allow retention of
existing trees, the developer shall be required to replace the trees to be
removed on a one-to-four-basis (one inch of new tree diameter for every four
inches of tree diameter removed).
   C.   Protection from excavations. When digging trenches for utility lines
and other similar uses, the developer shall adhere to the following, listed in
the order of their preference:
      (1)   If possible, trenches should bypass the root area.
      (2)   If this is impossible, trenches should be tunneled under the trees.
      (3)   If trenches must be dug past the side of a tree, the following
procedure shall be observed:
         (a)   Trenches shall be no closer to the trunk than half the distance
from the dripline.
         (b)   Cut as few roots as possible.
         (c)   If roots have to be cut, cut them as cleanly as possible.
         (d)   Paint the cut ends with an approved tree wound dressing.
         (e)   Backfill the trench as soon as possible, avoiding soil
compaction.
§ 267-16. Planting of new trees.
   Where it is impossible to retain existing trees or any tree with a diameter
of 10 inches or greater, the developer shall replant one inch of new tree
diameter for every four inches of existing tree diameter removed. New trees
shall have a minimum diameter of two inches and shall be guaranteed for two
growing seasons.
§ 267-17. Right to appeal.
   Any person aggrieved by an order or decision pursuant to this article shall
have the right to an administrative hearing before the Town Mayor or his or her
delegate. Such hearing shall be requested, in writing, within 10 days of the
date of the order or decision to be appealed.
§ 267-18. Enforcement; violations and penalties.
   A.   The provisions of this article will be enforced by the Town Code
Enforcement Officer.
   B.   Any person, firm or corporation who or which shall violate any
provision of this article shall be subject to one or more of the following: a
mandatory fine of not less than $300 and not more than $1,000, or a period of
community service, focused on the parks and open spaces of the Town, not to
exceed 30 hours for each offense.
   C.   Each day on which trees are removed which are not in compliance with
the standards of this article will constitute a separate violation.
   D.   For repeat offenses, the minimum mandatory fine is $500.
   E.   The fines collected in accordance with these provisions shall be
utilized by the Environmental Commission to pay for the services of a tree
expert, who shall be retained by the Town to perform periodic assessments of
the health, general condition and life expectancy of any trees to be removed
under this article. Any funds remaining shall be utilized by the members of the
Environmental Commission for future tree planting and other necessary
Environmental Commission functions, including but not limited to payment of
dues and fees for attending educational classes, including but not limited to
community forestry management classes.
CHAPTER 269.
UTILITY RESTORATION MONITORING
[HISTORY: Adopted by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton 6-
28-2010 by Ord. No. 11-2010. Amendments noted where applicable.]
   
§ 269-1.   Legislative authority for notification by public utilities.
   
§ 269-2.   Notification to Construction Code Official; site restoration; fines.
   
§ 269-3.   Recordkeeping by Fire Department.
   
§ 269-4.   Use of fines for cost of monitoring.
GENERAL REFERENCES
   Fire Department — See
Ch. 25.
   Streets and sidewalks — See
Ch. 247.
§ 269-1. Legislative authority for notification by public utilities.
   N.J.S.A. 48:3-17a permits municipalities to adopt an ordinance requiring
public utilities to take certain action, including, but not limited to,
notifying the municipal construction code official prior to undertaking certain
work involving public utilities within the confines of a municipality.
§ 269-2. Notification to Construction Code Official; site restoration; fines.
   The Town of Hammonton wishes to adopt a chapter pursuant to the aforesaid
statute so that:
   A.   The Town of Hammonton Construction Code Official is notified prior to
the commencement of any utility work occurring within the Town of Hammonton;
and
   B.   The Town of Hammonton possess the powers to require site restoration in
the vicinity of the work in question; and
   C.   The Town of Hammonton is authorized to assess a fine if that work has
not been completed within the time limits set forth in the aforesaid statute.
§ 269-3. Recordkeeping by Fire Department.
   The Town hereby designates the Hammonton Fire Department as the entity
responsible for monitoring and maintaining a record of those locations within
the municipality requiring pole removal, underground facility restoration,
right-of-way repair and/or debris removal and hot patch restoration, all
pursuant to subsection c of N.J.S.A. 48:3-17a.
§ 269-4. Use of fines for cost of monitoring.
   The Mayor and Council further direct that to the extent that a fine is
received pursuant to subsection e of the aforesaid statute, those funds shall
be transmitted to the Hammonton Fire Department to defray the cost of
administrative monitoring as described hereinabove.
CHAPTER 271.
VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
[HISTORY: Adopted by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton 9-
13-1971 by Ord. No. 10-1971 as Ch. 153 of the 1971 Code; amended in its
entirety 7-23-2001 by Ord. No. 26-2001. Subsequent amendments noted where
applicable.]
ARTICLE I.
General Provisions
   
§ 271-1.   Words and phrases defined.
   
§ 271-2.   Additional definitions.
   
§ 271-3.   Violations and penalties.
   
§ 271-4.   When effective.
   
§ 271-5.   Title.
ARTICLE II.
Parking
   
§ 271-6.   Parking prohibited at all times on certain streets.
   
§ 271-7.   Parking prohibited during certain hours on certain streets.
   
§ 271-8.   Stopping or standing prohibited during certain hours on certain
streets.
   
§ 271-9.   Parking time limited on certain streets.
   
§ 271-10.   Angle parking.
   
§ 271-10A.   Parallel parking.
   
§ 271-11.   Snow emergency no parking areas designated.
   
§ 271-12.   Off-street parking projects.
   
§ 271-13.   Limited-time parking zones.
   
§ 271-14.   Fire lanes; fire hydrants.
ARTICLE III.
Special Purpose Parking Zones
   
§ 271-15.   Loading zones designated.
   
§ 271-16.   Taxi stands designated.
   
§ 271-17.   [Reserved.]
   
§ 271-18.   Bus stops designated.
   
§ 271-18.1.   Handicap parking, on-street.
   
§ 271-18.2.   Safe zone parking.
ARTICLE IV.
Traffic Regulations
   
§ 271-19.   Vehicles excluded from certain streets.
   
§ 271-20.   One-way streets designated.
   
§ 271-21.   Through streets designated.
   
§ 271-22.   County through streets designated.
   
§ 271-23.   Stop intersections designated.
   
§ 271-24.   Four-way stop intersections designated.
   
§ 271-24A.   Three-way stop intersections designated.
   
§ 271-25.   Yield intersections designated.
   
§ 271-26.   Turn prohibitions.
   
§ 271-27.   Speed zones along county roads.
   
§ 271-28.   Speed zones along Town roads.
   
§ 271-29.   No-passing zones.
   
§ 271-30.   Crosswalks.
   
§ 271-30A.   The Road to Excellence.
ARTICLE V.
Regulations for Vehicles in Excess of Certain Weights
   
§ 271-31.   Purpose.
   
§ 271-32.   Definitions.
   
§ 271-33.   Acts prohibited.
   
§ 271-34.   Entity or person liable/responsible.
   
§ 271-35.   Violations and penalties.
ARTICLE VI.
Observance of Lawful Orders and Posted Traffic Regulations.
   
§ 271-36.   Orders and regulations to be observed.
   
§ 271-37.   Violations and penalties.
ARTICLE VII.
Discourteous, Inconvenient, Annoying or Alarming Conduct from Operation or Use
of Motor Vehicle
   
§ 271-38.   Prohibitions; enforcement; violations and penalties.
GENERAL REFERENCES
   Off-street parking — See
Ch. 197.
   Taxicabs — See
Ch. 257.
   Municipally owned vehicles — See
Ch. 274.
Article I.
General Provisions
§ 271-1. Words and phrases defined.
   Whenever any words and phrases are used in this chapter, the meaning
respectively ascribed to them in Subtitle 1 of Title 39 of the Revised Statutes
of New Jersey shall be deemed to apply to such words and phrases herein.
§ 271-2. Additional definitions.
   For the purposes of this chapter, all streets, roads, avenues and highways
running parallel to Railroad Avenue in the Town of Hammonton shall be
considered as running in a northerly and southerly direction, and all streets,
roads, avenues and highways running parallel to Bellevue Avenue shall be
considered as running in an easterly and westerly direction.
§ 271-3. Violations and penalties.
[Amended 7-23-2001 by Ord. No. 26-2001]
   Unless another penalty is expressly provided by New Jersey Statute, every
person convicted of a violation of a provision of this chapter or any
supplement thereto shall be liable to a penalty of not more than $50 or
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 15 days or both.
§ 271-4. When effective.
   This chapter shall take effect upon passage and publication as provided by
law and upon its approval by the Commissioner of Transportation of the State of
New Jersey. Editor's Note: Approved by the New Jersey Department of
Transportation February 8, 1974; resolution of consent adopted September 8,
1971 by the Atlantic County Board of Chosen Freeholders for regulations on
county roads.
§ 271-5. Title.
   This chapter may be known and cited as the "Traffic Ordinance."
Article II.
Parking
§ 271-6. Parking prohibited at all times on certain streets.
Editor's Note: Former § 271-201, Regulations not exclusive, which immediately
preceded this section, was repealed 7-9-1984 by Ord. No. 14-1984. No person
shall park a vehicle at any time upon any of the streets or parts thereof
described below:
Name of Street Side Location
Name of Street               Side                 Location
Alexander Drive
[Added 6-24-2013 by Ord. No. Entire Cul-de-sac    Cul-de-sac
012-2013]
Anne Drive
[Added 6-24-2013 by Ord. No. Entire Cul-de-sac    Cul-de-sac
012-2013]
                                                  From the westerly curbline of
Central Avenue               Both                 U.S. Route 30 to a point 300
                                                  feet west thereof
Central Avenue               Both                 Third Street to Peach Street
Central Avenue                                    From Vine Street in an
[Amended 10-27-2008 by Ord.  Both                 easterly direction to the
No. 32-2008]                                      entrance of Town hall
Central Avenue (Atlantic                          From the south curbline of
County 542)                  East                 U.S. Route 30 to a point 90
[Added 6-13-1988 by Ord. No.                      feet south thereof
11-1988]
Cherry Street                                     From S. Egg Harbor Road to a
[Added 10-28-2013 by Ord.    East                 point 100 feet north thereof
No. 023-2013]
Egg Harbor Road              East                 N.J. Route 54 to Vine Street
                                                  Beginning 100 feet south of
                                                  the southerly curbline of
Egg Harbor Road              West                 N.J. Route 54 and extending
                                                  to a point 50 feet north of
                                                  the northerly curbline of
                                                  N.J. Route 54
Egg Harbor Road                                   Bellevue Avenue to Vine
[Added 7-9-1984 by Ord. No.  Both                 Street
14-1984]
Eleventh Street                                   From Kay Drive to Grand
[Added 3-25-2002 by Ord. No. North                Street
7-2002]
Elvins Avenue
[Added 10-23-2017 by Ord.    North                No parking between Bellevue
No. 021-2017; amended 9-23-                       Avenue to Linda Avenue
2019 by Ord. No. 24-2019]
Fourth Street                                     From the northerly curbline
[Added 10-14-1985 by Ord.    East                 of Bellevue Avenue to a point
No. 14-1985]                                      100 yards north thereof
Fourth Street                South-               From Bellevue Avenue to
[Added 6-17-2002 by Ord. No. west                 Pleasant Street
29-2002]
                                                  From the northerly curbline
Front Street                 East                 of Twelfth Street to a point
                                                  105 feet north thereof
                                                  Beginning at a point 122 feet
                                                  south of the southerly
Front Street                 West                 curbline of Twelfth Street
                                                  and extending 27 feet south
                                                  thereof
Grand Street                                      Between Eleventh Street and a
[Added 11-18-2002 by Ord.    North                point approximately 1,228
No. 42-2002]                                      feet there from
Grand Street                                      From the northerly curbline
[Added 10-14- 1985 by Ord.   West                 of New Jersey Route 54 to a
No. 14-1985]                                      point 50 feet north thereof
Grand Street
[Added 9-27-1982 by Ord. No. West                 Ninth Street to Tenth Street
19-1982]
Grape Street                 South                Central Avenue to Third
                                                  Street
Hammonton Lake Park                               From Park Avenue to the
entranceway                  Both                 property line of Hammonton
[Added 3-25-1991 by Ord. No.                      Lake Park
4-1991]
                                                  Cul-de-sac off 11th Street (a
Judy's Court                                      distance of approximately 750
[Added 3-22-2010 by Ord. No. South                feet along the southerly curb
5-2010]                                           line to the point of tangency
                                                  of the cul-de-sac on the
                                                  north side of same)
Leah Court
[Added 6-24-2013 by Ord. No. Entire Cul-de-sac    Cul-de-sac
012-2013]
Linda Avenue                                      Fairview Avenue to Elvins
[Added 10-23-2017 by Ord.    South                Avenue
No. 021-2017]
Linda Avenue                                      Sindoni Lane to Virginia
[Added 10-23-2017 by Ord.    North                Avenue
No. 021-2017]
Messina Avenue
[Added 10-14-1985 by Ord. No. 14-1985; repealed 2-23-1987 by Ord. No. 2-1987]
North First Road                                  From the intersection of
[Added 5-21-2007 by Ord. No. Both                 Twelfth Street to Orchard
9-2007]                                           Street
North Grand Street                                From the corner of 12th
[Added 10-26-2010 by Ord.    Northeast            Street proceeding 50 feet on
No. 20-2010]                                      Grand Street at Block 2510
                                                  Lot 21
North Grand Street                                From the corner of 12th
[Added 10-26-2010 by Ord.    Southwest            Street proceeding 30 feet on
No. 20-2010]                                      Grand Street at Block 2507
                                                  Lot 7
North Liberty Street         East                 Bellevue Avenue to Fairview
                                                  Avenue
North Liberty Street         South-               From Bellevue Avenue to
[Added 6-17-2002 by Ord. No. west                 Pleasant Street
29-2002]
                                                  From the westerly curbline of
Orchard Street               North                Railroad Avenue to a point 50
                                                  feet west thereof
Orchard Street               South                Tilton Street to North Egg
                                                  Harbor Road
Packard Street               South-               From Bellevue Avenue to
[Added 6-17-2002 by Ord. No. west                 French Street
29-2002]
Park Avenue                                       Egg Harbor Road to Central
[Added 1-27-1975 by Ord. No. North                Avenue
1-1975]
Park Avenue                  South-               From Egg Harbor Road to and
[Added 3-25-1991 by Ord. No. east                 along the entire length of
4-1991]                                           Hammonton Lake Park property
Peach Street                 North                Egg Harbor Road to Central
                                                  Avenue
Peach Street                 North                Third Street to Egg Harbor
                                                  Road
                                                  Beginning at a point 117 feet
Peach Street                 South                east of the easterly curbline
                                                  of Third Street to a point 36
                                                  feet east thereof
Pleasant Street              South                Packard Street to Egg Harbor
                                                  Road
Pleasant Street              South                Reading Railroad tracks to
                                                  Washington Street
Pratt Street                 South                Tilton Street to Egg Harbor
                                                  Road
Rachel Court
[Added 6-24-2013 by Ord. No. Entire Cul-de-sac    Cul-de-sac
012-2013]
                                                  From the northerly curbline
Railroad Avenue              East                 of Orchard Street to a point
                                                  50 feet north thereof
                                                  From the southerly curbline
Railroad Avenue              East                 of Twelfth Street to a point
                                                  80 feet south thereof
Railroad Avenue                                   From Orchard Street to
[Added 11-28-1994 by Ord.    South                Thirteenth Street
No. 32-1994]
                                                  From the northerly curbline
Railroad Avenue              West                 of Bellevue Avenue to a point
                                                  50 feet north thereof
                                                  From the northerly curbline
Railroad Avenue              West                 of Orchard Street to a point
                                                  100 feet north thereof
Rita Drive
[Added 5-21-2007 by Ord. No. West side            Cul-de-sac off Main Road
9-2007]
School Lane                  East                 Vine Street to Bellevue
                                                  Avenue
                                                  From the easterly curbline of
Sea Grove Avenue             Both                 U.S. Route 30 to a point 300
                                                  feet east thereof
Sea Grove Avenue                                  From the north curbline of
[Added 6-13-1988 by Ord. No. West                 U.S. Route 30 to a point 80
11-88]                                            feet north thereof
Second Street                East                 Cottage Avenue to Orchard
                                                  Street
Second Street                East                 Orchard Street to Pleasant
                                                  Street
Sports Drive                                      100 Sports Drive -
[Added 7-24-2017 by Ord. No. Inside of dirt track Surrounding playing field
016-2017]
Tenth Street
[Added 1-27-1975 by Ord. No. South                First Road to Grand Street
1-1975]
                                                  From the northerly curbline
Third Street                 East                 of Bellevue Avenue to a point
                                                  185 feet north thereof
Third Street                 East                 Peach Street to Grape Street
Third Street                 West                 Vine Street to Central Avenue
Tilton Street                East                 Orchard Street to Pleasant
                                                  Street
Twelfth Street
[Added 2-27-1995 by Ord. No. 4-1995; repealed 8-28-1995 by Ord. No. 21-1995]
Vine Street                                       From Second Street to Third
[Amended 10-27-2008 by Ord.  Both                 Street and at bend heading
No. 32-2008]                                      toward Route 54
Vine Street
[Repealed 10-27-2008 by Ord. No. 32-2008]
Vine Street
[Repealed 10-27-2008 by Ord. No. 32-2008]
Vine Street                  North                Egg Harbor Road to Central
                                                  Avenue
Washington Street            East                 Twelfth Street to Somerby
                                                  Avenue
Washington Street                                 From the intersection with
[Added 5-22-1989 by Ord. No. West                 Twelfth Street to a point 200
16-1989]                                          feet south thereof
Woodman Avenue [Added 5-20-
2019 by Ord. No. 9-2019;     East                 100 feet from Twelfth Street
amended 11-18-2019 by Ord.                        to Passmore Avenue
No. 29-2019]
 
§ 271-7. Parking prohibited during certain hours on certain streets.
   No person shall park a vehicle between the hours specified below of any day
specified below (except Sundays and public holidays) upon any of the streets or
parts of streets described below:
Name of Street Side Hours/Days Location
Name of Street           Side  Hours/Days               Location
Central Avenue                 2:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m./  From Bellevue Avenue to
[Added 7-25-2011 by Ord. Both  days on which Farmers    Vine Street
No. 15-2011]                   Market occurs
Central Avenue                 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m./  From Third Street to
[Added 3-14-1988 by Ord. Both  Monday through Friday    Vine Street
No. 4-1988]
Messina Avenue                                          From the northerly
[Added 2-23-1987 by Ord. East  8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m./  curbline of Pleasant
No. 2-1987]                    Monday through Friday    Street to a point 50
                                                        yards north thereof
                                                        From the northerly
                                                        curbline of Fairview
North Fourth Street            8:30 a.m. to 3:30 p.m./  Avenue to and inclusive
[Added 9-23-1991 by Ord. Both  Monday through Friday    of the entire curb
No. 21-1991]                                            length fronting on and
                                                        opposite the Hammonton
                                                        Elementary School
Peach Street                                            From the westerly
[Added 10-14-1985 by     South 7:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m./  curbline of Central
Ord. No. 14-1985]              school days              Avenue to a point 75
                                                        yards east thereof
Pleasant Street                                         From the curbline of
[Added 2-25-2002 by Ord. Both  7:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m./  Third Street to a point
No. 1-2002]                    Monday through Friday    350 feet northeasterly
                                                        thereof
Third Street             Both  6:00 a.m. to 12:00 noon/ From Pleasant Street to
                               Sunday                   French Street
Vine Street              South 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m./  From Third Street to
                               school days              School Lane
 
§ 271-8. Stopping or standing prohibited during certain hours on certain
streets.
   No person shall stop or stand a vehicle between the hours specified below of
any day (except Sundays and public holidays) upon any of the streets or parts
of streets described below:
 
Name of Street           Side Hours                  Location
Liberty Street                7:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. In front of Hammonton High
[Added 6-25-1994 by Ord. Both Monday through Friday  School
No. 21-1994]
 
§ 271-9. Parking time limited on certain streets.
   No person shall park a vehicle for longer than the time limit shown at any
time between the hours listed below of any day (except Sundays and public
holidays) upon any of the streets or parts of streets described below:
Name of Street Side Time Limit Hours Day Location
Name of Street  Side   Time Limit Hours           Day           Location
                                                                From the
                                  8:00 a.m. to 6:               easterly
Bellevue Avenue                   00 p.m.; 8:00   Mon., Tues.,  curbline of Egg
(N.J. Route 54) Both   1 hour     a.m. to 9:00    Wed., Thurs.  Harbor Road to
                                  p.m.                          a point 1,300
                                                                feet east
                                                                thereof
                                  8:00 to 6:00    Mon., Tues.,  Egg Harbor Road
Bellevue Avenue Both   2 hours    p.m., 8:00 a.m. Wed., Thurs., to Third Street
                                  to 9:00 p.m.    Fri., Sat.
                                  8:00 a.m. to 6: Mon., Tues.,
Central Avenue  Both   2 hours    00 p.m., 8:00   Wed., Thurs., Bellevue Avenue
                                  a.m. to 9:00    Fri., Sat.    to Vine Street
                                  p.m.
Central Avenue  West   1 hour     All             All           Vine Street to
                                                                Third Street
East Pleasant                                                   250 feet from
Street          North-                                          its
[Added 2-22-    west   2 hours    All             All           intersection
1999 by Ord.                                                    with Second
No. 1-1999]                                                     Street
                                  8:00 a.m. to 6: Mon., Tues.,
Egg Harbor Road East   2 hours    00 p.m., 8:00   Wed., Thurs., Vine Street to
                                  a.m. to 9:00    Fri., Sat.    Bellevue Avenue
                                  p.m.
Grape Street    North  2 hours    6:00 a.m. to 6: Mon. through  Central Avenue
                                  00 p.m.         Sat.          to Third Street
                                  8:00 a.m. to 6: Mon., Tues.,  Bellevue Avenue
Horton Street   Both   2 hours    00 p.m., 8:00   Wed., Thurs., to Orchard
                                  a.m. to 9:00    Fri., Sat.    Street
                                  p.m.
Peach Street                                                    South Third
[Added 4-24-                      8:00 a.m. to 6: Mon. through  Street to rear
1989 by Ord.    Both   15 minutes 00 p.m.         Fri.          line of
No. 8-1989]                                                     Carnesale
                                                                property
Peach Street                                                    Central Avenue
[Added 4-24-    East   3 hours    8:00 a.m. to 6: Mon. through  to South Third
1989 by Ord.                      00 p.m.         Fri.          Street
No. 8-1989]
Peach Street    South  1 hour     All             All           Third Street to
                                                                Central Avenue
                                  8:00 a.m. to 6: Mon., Tues.,  Twelfth Street
Railroad Avenue Both   2 hours    00 p.m., 8:00   Wed., Thurs., to Orchard
                                  a.m. to 9:00    Fri., Sat.    Street
                                  p.m.
                                  8:00 a.m. to 8: Mon., Wed.,   Bellevue Avenue
Second          Both   2 hours    00 a.m. to 9:00 Thurs., Fri., Street
                                  p.m.            Sat.
                                  8:00 a.m. to 6: Mon., Tues.,
Second Street   Both   2 hours    00 p.m., 8:00   Wed., Thurs., Vine Street to
                                  a.m. to 9:00    Fri., Sat.    Orchard Street
                                  p.m.
South Third
Street                            8:00 a.m. to 6: Mon. through  Central Avenue
[Added 4-24-    Both   15 minutes 00 p.m.         Fri.          to Peach Street
1989 by Ord.
No. 8-1989]
South Third                                                     Peach Street to
Street                            8:00 a.m. to 6: Mon. through  rear line of
[Added 4-24-    North  3 hours    00 p.m.         Fri.          Episcopal
1989 by Ord.                                                    Church
No. 8-1989]
Third Street    Both   1 hour     All             All           Central Avenue
                                                                to Peach Street
                                  8:00 a.m. to 6: Mon., Tues.,
Third Street    East   2 hours    00 p.m., 8:00   Wed., Thurs., Vine Street to
                                  a.m. to 9:00    Fri., Sat.    Orchard Street
                                  p.m.
Third Street    West   2 hours    6:00 a.m. to 6: Mon. through  Peach Street to
                                  00 p.m.         Sat.          Grape Street
                                  8:00 a.m. to 8: Mon., Wed.,   Railroad Avenue
Twelfth         Both   1 hour     00 a.m. to 9:00 Thurs., Fri., Street
                                  p.m.            Sat.
 
§ 271-10. Angle parking.
   Only angle parking of vehicles shall be permitted on the streets or parts of
streets below which streets or parts are hereby designated for angle parking
only. Such vehicles shall park for such times and at such angles as are marked
off or otherwise designated.
 
Name of Street  Side Time Limits Hours           Angle of Location
                                                 Parking
                                 8:00 a.m. to 6:
                                 00 p.m. Mon.,            Bellevue Avenue
Egg Harbor Road West 2 hours     Tues., Wed.;    30°     to Orchard
                                 Thurs.; 8:00             Street
                                 a.m. to 9:00
                                 p.m. Fri., Sat.
                                 8:00 a.m. to 6:
                                 00 p.m. Mon.,            Twelfth Street
Railroad Avenue East 2 hours     Tues., Wed.,    30°     to Orchard
                                 Thurs.; 8:00             Street
                                 a.m. to 9:00
                                 p.m. Fri., Sat.
 
§ 271-10A. Parallel parking.
[Added 7-24-2017 by Ord. No. 016-2017]
All vehicles shall be parked parallel at all times:
 
Name of Street   Side                  Location
100 Sports Drive Outer side dirt track Surrounding playing field
 
§ 271-11. Snow emergency no parking areas designated.
[Amended 3-21-2005 by Ord. No. 3-2005]
   A.   Parking prohibited.
      (1)   Whenever snow has fallen and the accumulation is such that it
covers the street or highway, no vehicle shall be parked on any street or
highway within the Town of Hammonton.
      (2)   The above parking prohibition shall remain in effect until after
the snow has ceased and until the streets have been plowed sufficiently so that
parking will not interfere with the normal flow of traffic.
   B.   Removal of vehicles. Any unoccupied vehicle parked or standing in
violation of this section shall be deemed a nuisance and a menace to the safe
and proper regulation of traffic, and any police officer may provide for the
removal of such vehicle. The owner shall pay the reasonable costs of removal
and storage which may result from such removal, before regaining possession of
the vehicle.
   C.   Violations and penalties. Any person who shall violate any provision of
this section, for each offense, shall be subject to any or more of the
following: A fine of not more than $500; community service for up to 10 hours.
Editor's Note: Former § 271-208, Parking-meter zones established, which
immediately followed this section, was repealed 7-9-1984 by Ord. No. 14-1984.
§ 271-12. Off-street parking projects.
   A.   Definitions. As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have
the meanings indicated:
   OFF-STREET PARKING PROJECTS
   The areas or places constructed or acquired or to be constructed or acquired
and owned and operated or to be owned and operated by the Parking Authority of
the Town of Hammonton, or operated by the Parking Authority of the Town of
Hammonton, or leased or to be leased by the Town of Hammonton or the Parking
Authority of the Town of Hammonton for the parking and storing of motor and
other vehicles or limited classes of such vehicles, and shall include all real
and personal property, driveways, roads, approaches, structures, garages,
meters, mechanical equipment and all appurtenances and facilities either on,
above or under the ground which are used or usable in connection with such
parking or storing of such vehicles, which "off-street parking projects" shall
be all premises or parts of the premises as described in the schedule in
Subsection B(2) of this section.
   PARKING SPACE
   The area or portion of any off-street parking project within which a vehicle
may be properly parked, which space shall be bounded by curb or lines marked on
the surface of the projects or by a combination of curb and lines.
   B.   Prohibited parking.
      (1)   It shall also be unlawful and a violation of this section for any
person to permit a vehicle registered in his/her name to remain in any off-
street parking project of the Town of Hammonton as described in the schedule in
Subsection B(2) below for a period of more than two continuous hours.
      (2)   In accordance with the provisions of § 271-12B(1) and D, vehicles
may be parked within any of the following premises comprising off-street
parking projects of the Town of Hammonton. No vehicle shall be washed, painted
or repaired (except for necessary emergency repairs) while within said off-
street parking projects as hereinafter described. No overnight parking will be
allowed except for one vehicle per apartment tenant if no parking is available
on site or adjacent site of an apartment complex. A permit will be required and
a sticker or placard must be placed upon the subject vehicle. Parking permits
shall be obtained from the Hammonton Police Department upon proof of tenancy,
along with a valid New Jersey vehicle registration, proof of insurance and a
valid New Jersey driver's license.
[Amended 9-25-2000 by Ord. No. 33-2000; 2-25-2002 by Ord. No. 3-2002]
Name of Street Location Tax Map Block and Dimensions  Owned or Leased by Town
               Lot Nos.                   (feet)
Name of Street       Location Tax Map     Dimensions      Owned or Leased by
                     Block and Lot Nos.   (feet)          Town
18 Second Street     Block 62, Lot 5      61 by 115.5     Leased
109 to 111 Vine      Block 66, Lots 9 and 94.1 by 127     Owned
Street               20                   (irregular)
209 Orchard Street   Block 58, Lot 11     106 by 135      Owned
220 Vine Street      Block 71, Lot 3      61.3 by 150     Owned (irregular)
226 Vine Street      Block 71, Lot 8      85.48 by 153.49 Owned (irregular)
Front Street
(between Passmore    Block 72, Lot 7      42 by 480       Leased
Avenue and Line
Street)
North Egg Harbor
Road (Orchard Street Block 20A, Lot 1     27 by 325.26    Owned
to Pleasant Street)
Passmore Avenue and  Block 69, Lot 40     50 by 72        Leased
Front Street
Twelfth Street and   Block 69, Lot 4      228 by 50       Leased
Front Street
Vine Street and
Central Avenue       Block 2810, Lot 14   158 by 67       Owned
[Added 7-28-2003 by                       (irregular)
Ord. No. 15-2003]
 
   (2a)   Limited time parking. There shall be four hour limited time parking
in the following municipal parking lots between the hours of 8:00 a.m. to 5:00
p.m:
 
Name of Street               Block & Lot        Owned or Leased by Town
Vine Street                  Block 2810, Lot 14 Owned
Central Avenue & Vine Street Block 2811, Lot 7  Owned
                             Block 2811, Lot 9  Owned
 
[Added 1-27-2014 by Ord. No. 001-2014]
   (2b)   Limited time parking. There shall be limited time parking of three
hours in the following municipal parking lot(s) at all times:
 
Name of Street                 Block & Lot             Owned or Leased by Town
S. Egg Harbor Road/Vine Street Block 2803, Lot 19 & 20 Owned
 
[Added 7-24-2017 by Ord. No. 016-2017]
   C.   The Police Department of the Town of Hammonton shall have the right to
remove from any off-street parking projects any unattended vehicle parked or
standing in any portion of an off-street parking project not designated as a
parking space, or any unattended vehicle parked or standing in a designated
parking space which has remained in said designated parking space for a period
of six hours after a summons has been issued charging a violation of
Subsections B and D of this section. When a vehicle is so removed from an off-
street parking project, the owner of said vehicle shall pay, before being
entitled to the recovery or possession of said vehicle, all reasonable charges
for towing, storage and other expenses incurred in the removal of said vehicle.
[Amended 2-25-2002 by Ord. No. 3-2002]
   D.   Unwarranted use of parking projects. It shall be unlawful and an
offense for any person to wash, paint or repair a vehicle in an off-street
parking project; provided, however, that nothing herein shall be construed to
prohibit necessary emergency repairs of a vehicle.
§ 271-13. Limited-time parking zones.
[Added 7-9-1984 by Ord. No. 14-1984]
   A.   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following terms shall
have the meanings indicated:
   OPERATOR
   Includes every individual who shall operate a vehicle as the owner thereof
or as the agent, employee or permittee of the owner.
   PERSON
   Includes any individual, firm, partnership or corporation.
   STREET
   Any public street, avenue, road, boulevard, highway or other public place
located in the Town of Hammonton and established for the use of vehicles.
   VEHICLE
   Any device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be
transported upon a highway, except a device which is operated upon rails or
tracks.
   B.   There are hereby established "No Parking Zones" between the hours of 3:
00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. in the following streets and avenues in the Town of
Hammonton:
[Amended 12-17-2012 by Ord. No. 027-2012]
      (1)   Twelfth Street, from Washington Street to Railroad Avenue, on both
sides and parallel with the curb.
      (2)   Bellevue Avenue, from Egg Harbor Rd to Tilton Street, on Both sides
and parallel with the curb.
[Amended 9-25-2000 by Ord. No. 33-2000]
      (3)   Railroad Avenue, from Twelfth Street to Orchard Street, parallel
with the curb on the south side and at a thirty-degree angle to the curb on the
north side.
      (4)   Egg Harbor Road, from Bellevue Avenue to Orchard Street, parallel
to the curb on the north side and at a thirty-degree angle to the curb on the
south side.
      (5)   Second Street, from Vine Street to Orchard Street, on both sides
and parallel with the curb.
      (6)   Horton Street, from Orchard Street to Bellevue Avenue, on both
sides and parallel with the curb.
      (7)   Central Avenue, from Bellevue Avenue to Vine Street, on both sides
and parallel with the curb.
      (8)   Third Street, from Vine Street to Orchard Street, on the north side
only and parallel with the curb.
      (9)   Route 54 (Twelfth Street) from Railroad Avenue to West End Avenue
parallel with the curb.
[Added 2-25-2002 by Ord. No. 3-2002]
      (10)   Route 54 (Twelfth Street) from Front Street to Lincoln Street
parallel with the curb.
[Added 2-25-2002 by Ord. No. 3-2002]
   C.   Parking shall be prohibited on all days in said zones and municipal
parking lots between 3:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. No parking shall be allowed on all
days in said zones between 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., with the exception of any
location where a business may be located whose hours extend beyond 11:00 p.m.
and parking shall be permitted until closing hours of business. In said limited
time parking zones, the Mayor and Council shall cause appropriate signage to be
erected, indicating the time limitations applicable to that zone.
[Amended 9-25-2000 by Ord. No. 33-2000; 12-17-2012 by Ord. No. 027-2012]
   D.   [Reserved.]
[Repealed 12-17-2012 by Ord. No. 027-2012]
   E.   It shall be the duty of police officers of the Town of Hammonton,
acting in accordance with instructions issued by the Chief of Police, to issue
appropriate citations for the violation of the provisions of §
271-13 of the Code of the Town of Hammonton.
   F.   The fine for the violation of any of the provisions of §
271-13 of the Code of the Town of Hammonton shall be $20.
[Amended 9-25-2000 by Ord. No. 33-2000]
§ 271-14. Fire lanes; fire hydrants.
[Added 3-25-1991 by Ord. No. 9-1991]
   In accordance with the provisions of the New Jersey State Fire Prevention
Code, Section F-311.0 et seq., no person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle at
any time upon any street, part of a street, designated a fire lane on public or
private property and within 10 feet of a fire hydrant or Fire Department
connection with the Town of Hammonton.
Article III.
Special Purpose Parking Zones
§ 271-15. Loading zones designated.
   The locations described below are hereby designated as "loading zones."
 
Name of Street      Time                    Side       Location
                                                       Starting at a point 65
                                                       feet northwest from the
Horton Street                                          southeast curbline of
[Added 2-28-2005 by 7:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m. South-west Bellevue Avenue, State
Ord. No. 1-2005]                                       Route 54, and extending
                                                       for a distance of 55
                                                       feet northwest thereof
                                                       Starting at a point 25
                                                       feet southeast from the
Second Street                                          southeast curbline of
[Added 2-28-2005 by 7:00 a.m.               South-west Bellevue Avenue, State
Ord. No. 1-2005]                                       Route 54, and extending
                                                       for a distance of 50
                                                       feet southeast thereof
 
§ 271-16. Taxi stands designated.
   The locations described below are hereby designated as "taxi stands."
 
Street Location Hours
(Reserved)
 
§ 271-17. [Reserved.]
[Repealed 12-17-2012 by Ord. No. 027-2012]
§ 271-18. Bus stops designated.
   The locations below are hereby designated as "bus stops."
   A.   Along South Egg Harbor Road. Eastbound on the southerly side thereof at
Bellevue Avenue (far side):
      (1)   Beginning at 100 feet east of the easterly curbline of Bellevue
Avenue and extending 135 feet easterly thereof.
   B.   Along South Egg Harbor Road. Westbound on the northerly side thereof at
Vine Street (far side):
      (1)   Beginning at the northerly curbline of Vine Street and extending
115 feet northerly thereof.
§ 271-18.1. Handicap parking, on-street.
Editor's Note: See also
Ch. 197, Art. II, Handicap Parking Zones.
[Added 2-25-2002 by Ord. No. 2-2002]
   Pursuant to N.J.S.A. 39:4-197(3)c, there are hereby designated restricted
parking spaces for use by persons who have been issued special vehicle
identification cards and/or license plates by the Division of Motor Vehicles,
pursuant to the provisions of Section 2 of Chapter 280 of the Laws of 1949
(N.J.S.A. 39:4-205) and Section 1 of Chapter 202 of the Laws of 1977 (N.J.S.A.
39:4-197.5) on the following streets and the designated locations:
   A.   Southwest of Pleasant Street nearest the intersection of Third Street
shall be located two handicap parking spaces properly designated and marked
with signage and pavement markings in accordance with the statutes and
regulations of the State of New Jersey.
   B.   544 South Third Street shall be located one bus size handicap parking
space properly designated and marked with signage in accordance with the
statutes and regulations of the State of New Jersey to accommodate handicap bus
daily pick-up and drop-off of disabled resident.
   [Added 7-24-2017 by Ord. No. 016-2017]
§ 271-18.2. Safe zone parking. 
[Added 11-21-2016 by Ord. No. 021-2016]
   There shall be designated two parking places at the parking lot located on
the corner of Vine Street and Central Avenue across the street from the Town
Hall Municipal Building designated as safe zone parking places. The parking
places will be restricted to 15 minute parking for divorced/separated parents
who need to meet and exchange their children per their individual custody
contracts.
Article IV.
Traffic Regulations
§ 271-19. Vehicles excluded from certain streets.
[Amended 12-27-1976 by Ord. No. 23-1976; 7-14-1980 by Ord. No. 16-1980]
   Trucks over weight limits provided below are hereby excluded from the
following described streets or parts of streets, except for the pickup and
delivery of materials on such streets:
Name of Street Weight Limit Location
               (tons)
Name of Street                   Weight Limit Location
                                 (tons)
Basin Road                       4            Basin Road to White Horse Pike
                                              (Route 30)
Berwyn Avenue                    4            Broadway to Woodlawn Avenue
East Pleasant Street             4            Fourth Street to Liberty Street
Eighth Street
[Added 4-22-2002 by Ord. No. 15- 4            Entire length
2002]
Francis Street                   4            Entire length
Grape Street                     4            Central Avenue to Liberty Street
Lakeview Avenue                  4            Moss Mill Road to South White
                                              Horse Pike
Liberty Street                   4            Entire length
Line Street                      4            South First Road to Egg Harbor
                                              Road
Marlyn Avenue                    4            Entire length
Oak Road                         4            Union Road to White Horse Pike
                                              (Route 30)
Park Avenue                      4            Egg Harbor Road to Central Avenue
Peach Street                     4            Central Avenue to Liberty Street
Pine Road                        4            Union Road to White Horse Pike
                                              (Route 30)
Pleasant Street                  4            Entire length
Second Road                      15           Chew Road to Twelfth Street (NJ
                                              Route 54)
                                              U.S. Route 206 to boundary line
Union Road                       4            between the Town of Hammonton and
                                              the Township of Winslow
Valley Avenue                    4            Entire length
Woodlawn Avenue                  4            Entire length
 
§ 271-20. One-way streets designated.
   The following described streets or parts of streets are hereby designated as
one-way streets in the direction indicated:
Name of Street Direction of Travel Limits
Name of Street               Direction of Travel Limits
Boyer Avenue                                     Between the northerly curbline
[Added 3-24-1997 by Ord. No. North-bound         of Route 30 and the southerly
2-1997]                                          curbline of Moss Mill Road
                                                 (CR561)
Eighth Street
[Added 3-24-1997 by Ord. No. 2-1997; repealed 7-25-2005 by Ord. No. 27-2005]
Front Street                 South-bound         Between Twelfth Street (N.J.
                                                 Route 54) and Passmore Avenue
Horton Street                North-bound         Between Bellevue Avenue and
                                                 Pleasant Street
North Liberty Street         North-bound         Between Bellevue Avenue and
                                                 Pleasant Street
Orchard Street               East-bound          Between Egg Harbor Road and
                                                 Tilton Street
Peach Street                 South-bound         Between Packard Street and
                                                 Central Avenue
Pleasant Street              East-bound          Between Third Street and North
                                                 Packard Street
                                                 Between Twelfth Street (N.J.
Railroad Avenue              North-bound         Route 54) and West Orchard
                                                 Street
School Lane                  North-bound         Between South Third Street and
                                                 Bellevue Avenue
Second Street                North-bound         Between Bellevue Avenue (N.J.
                                                 Route 54) and Pleasant Street
Second Street                South-bound         Between Bellevue Avenue (N.J.
                                                 Route 54) and Peach Street
                                                 Between a point 252 feet east
Vine Street                  East-bound          of the easterly curbline of
                                                 South Third Street and School
                                                 Lane
 
§ 271-21. Through streets designated.
   Pursuant to N.J.S.A. 39:4-140, the following described streets or parts of
streets are hereby designated as through streets. Stop signs shall be installed
on the near right side of each street intersecting the through street, except
where "Yield Right-of-Way" signs are provided for in the designations.
Name of Street Location
Name of Street                       Location
Egg Harbor Road                      Between Bellevue Avenue (N.J. Route 54)
                                     and Fairview Avenue
Eleventh Street                      Between Egg Harbor Road and First Road
[Added 1-27-1975 by Ord. No. 1-1975]
Fifteenth Street                     Between Second Road and Egg Harbor Road
First Road                           Between N.J. Route 54 and Chew Road
Fourth Avenue                        Between Bellevue Avenue (N.J. Route 54)
                                     and Fairview Avenue
Grand Street                         Between Passmore Avenue and Eleventh
[Added 1-27-1975 by Ord. No. 1-1975] Street
Grand Avenue                         Between Twelfth Street (N.J. Route 54) and
                                     Thirteenth Street
Lakeview Avenue                      Between Moss Mill Road and U.S. Route 30
Liberty Street                       Between Broadway and Bellevue Avenue (N.J.
                                     Route 54)
Line Street                          Between Egg Harbor Road and Grand Street
[Added 1-27-1975 by Ord. No. 1-1975]
Line Street                          Between Grand Street and First Road
[Added 1-27-1975 by Ord. No. 1-1975]
Orchard Street                       Between Grand Avenue and First Road
Packard Street                       Between Bellevue Avenue (N.J. Route 54)
                                     and Fairview Avenue
Park Avenue                          Between Egg Harbor Road and Central Avenue
Passmore Avenue                      Between First Road and Egg Harbor Road
Pleasant Avenue                      Between Grand Avenue and First Road
Second Road                          Between Chew Road and Twelfth Street (N.J.
                                     Route 54)
                                     Between Twelfth Street and the Town of
Second Road                          Hammonton-Township of Winslow Corporate
                                     Line
Second Street                        Between Bellevue Avenue (N.J. Route 54)
                                     and Fairview Avenue
Second Street                        Between Cherry Street and Vine Street
Third Street                         Between Bellevue Avenue (N.J. Route 54)
                                     and Central Avenue
Third Street                         Between Central Avenue and Chestnut Street
Valley Avenue                        Between Broadway and Bellevue Avenue (N.J.
                                     Route 54)
Valley Avenue                        Between Central Avenue and Broadway
Washington Street                    Between Orchard Street and Fairview Avenue
West End Avenue                      Between Twelfth Street (N.J. Route 54) and
                                     Thirteenth Street
Woodlawn Avenue                      Between Liberty Street and U.S. Route 30
 
§ 271-22. County through streets designated.
   Pursuant to the provisions of N.J.S.A. 39:4-140, under the authority and
direction of, and subject to the limitations of a certain resolution of the
Atlantic County Board of Freeholders adopted March 12, 1958, the following
Atlantic County roads and streets as described and designated are hereby
designated as "through streets." Stop signs shall be installed on all
intersecting roadways pursuant to N.J.S.A. 39:4-141 as amended.
Name of County Street or Road Designation and Description
Name of County Street or Road           Designation and Description
Broadway                                From Central Avenue to U.S. Route 30
Central Avenue                          From N.J. Route 54 (Bellevue Ave.) to
                                        U.S. Route 30
                                        From and including where it intersects
Egg Harbor Road                         with Moss Mill Road to N.J. Route 54
                                        (Bellevue Avenue)
Egg Harbor Road                         From and including where it intersects
                                        Moss Mill Road to U.S. Route 30
                                        From Thirteenth Street and Fairview
Egg Harbor Road                         Avenue to northern Hammonton Town line
                                        (Hammonton-Camden County line)
                                        From and including where it intersects
Fairview Avenue                         with Egg Harbor Road and Railroad
                                        Avenue to Third Street; and from Third
                                        Street to U.S. Route 30
Main Road                               From Pleasant Mills Road to U.S. Route
                                        30
Middle Road                             From U.S. Route 30 to U.S. Route 206
North Third Street and Wilsey Mill Road From N.J. Route 54 (Bellevue Avenue) to
                                        the northern Town line
                                        From U.S. Route 30 and eastern
Pleasant Mills Road                     Hammonton Town line (Hammonton-Mullica
                                        Township line)
Railroad Avenue                         From Orchard Street to Thirteenth
                                        Street and Railroad Avenue
                                        From and including where it intersects
Thirteenth Street                       with Chew Road to and including where
                                        it intersects Egg Harbor Road and
                                        Railroad Avenue
 
§ 271-23. Stop intersections designated.
   Pursuant to the provisions of N.J.S.A. 39:4-140, the following are hereby
designated as "stop intersections." "Stop" signs shall be installed as provided
therein.
Intersection Stop Sign on
Intersection                           Stop Sign on
Cherry Street and Second Street        Second Street
Chestnut Street and Third Street       Third Street
East Lane and Lake Shore Drive         East Lane
[Added 2-22-1988 by Ord. No. 2-1988]
Grand Street and Ninth Street          Grand Street
[Added 1-27-1975 by Ord. No. 1-1975]
Horton Street and Orchard Street       Orchard Street
Jacobs Street and Madison Avenue       Jacobs Street
[Added 1-27-1975 by Ord. No. 1-1975]
Jacobs Street and Monroe Avenue        Jacobs Street
[Added 1-27-1975 by Ord. No. 1-1975]
Jacobs Street and West End Avenue      Jacobs Street
[Added 1-27-1975 by Ord. No. 1-1975]
Lake Shore Drive and Kings Lane        Kings Lane
[Added 2-22-1988 by Ord. No. 2-1988]
Liberty Street and Pleasant Street     Pleasant Street
Madison Street and Wilbur Avenue       Madison Street
[Added 1-27-1975 by Ord. No. 1-1975]
Monroe Avenue and Wilbur Avenue        Monroe Avenue
[Added 1-27-1975 by Ord. No. 1-1975]
Moss View Avenue and Mill Run Avenue   Moss View Avenue
[Added 2-22-1988 by Ord. No. 2-1988]
Ninth Street and Grand Street          Facing traffic on Grand Street on either
[Added 7-24-1989 by Ord. No. 23-1989]  side of Ninth Street
Orchard Street and Grand Street [Added Grand Street
8-26-2019 by Ord. No. 20-2019]
Orchard Street and Washington Street   Washington Street
Peach Street and Packard Street        Packard Street
Pleasant Street and Horton Street      Horton Street
Poplar Street and Moss View Drive      Poplar Avenue
[Added 2-22-1988 by Ord. No. 2-1988]
Pratt Street and Tilton Street         Tilton Street
Thirteenth Street and First Road       First Road
Vine Street and Second Street          Second Street
 
§ 271-24. Four-way stop intersections designated.
[Added 8-26-1991 by Ord. No. 16-1991; amended 12-9-1991 by Ord. No. 29-1991]
   Pursuant to the provisions of N.J.S.A. 39:4-140, the following described are
hereby designated as "four-way stop intersections." "Stop" signs shall be
installed as provided therein.
Intersection Location of Stop Sign
Intersection                                         Location of Stop Sign
East Pleasant Street and Tilton Street               All intersection corners
Fourteenth Street and First Road                     All intersection corners
[Added 3-8-1993 by Ord. No. 4-1993]
Grand Street and Pleasant Street                     All intersection corners
[Added 7-27-1992 by Ord. No. 26-1992]
Grape Street and Valley Avenue                       All intersection corners
Line Street and Grand Street                         All intersection corners
Oak Road and Union Road [Added 8-27-2018 by Ord. No. All intersection corners
30-2018]
Orchard Street and West End Avenue                   All intersection corners
[Added 12-14-1992 by Ord. No. 36-1992]
Passmore Avenue and Grand Street                     All intersection corners
Peach Street and Packard Street                      All intersection corners
Pine Road and Union Road                             All intersection corners
Pleasant Street and Fourth Street                    All intersection corners
Pratt Street and Packard Street                      All intersection corners
[Added 7-27-1992 by Ord. No. 26-1992]
Third Street and Peach Street                        All intersection corners
Thirteenth Street and North 1st Road                 All intersection corners
 
§ 271-24A. Three-way stop intersections designated.
[Added 8-24-2015 by Ord. No. 011-2015]
 
Intersection
Packard Street and Grape Street
 
[Added 8-24-2015 by Ord. No. 011-2015]
§ 271-25. Yield intersections designated.
   Pursuant to the provisions of N.J.S.A. 39:4-140, the following intersections
are hereby designated as "yield intersections." Yield Right-of-Way" signs shall
be installed as provided herein.
 
Intersection Yield Sign on
(Reserved)
 
§ 271-26. Turn prohibitions.
   A.   Left turn prohibited.
 
Intersection               Turn Prohibited          Movement Prohibited
Driveway at Block 403, Lot                          Left turns entering and
1                                                   exiting the proposed Route
[Added 9-26-2005 by Ord.   Left turn                54 driveway access for the
No. 36-2005]                                        property at Block 403, Lot
                                                    1
Easterly intersection of                            Westbound lane of Rt. 542
Rt. 542 and US Rt. 30                              reserved for right turn
[Added 3-18-2013 by Ord.                            only
No. 002-2013]
4th Street [Added 10-28-   Going east bound         Into Sooy Elementary drop
2019 by Ord. No. 26-2019]                           off loop
4th Street and Warren E.
Sooy School                Left turn from all exits Left turn onto 4th Street
[Added 2-26-2018 by Ord.   of school
No. 006-2018]
4th Street and Road to
Excellence
[Added 2-26-2018 by Ord.   Left turn permitted      Left turn onto 4th Street
No. 006-2018; amended 10-
28-2019 by Ord. No. 27-
2019]
 
   B.   Right turns only. No person shall make a turn at the location listed
below other than a right turn movement:
[Added 7-25-2005 by Ord. No. 27-2005]
 
Intersection               Movement Permitted
Route US 30 and 8th Street Northbound from 8th Street to eastbound onto Route
                           US 30
 
   C.   U-turn prohibited.
[Added 10-25-2021 by Ord. 015-2021]
 
Name of Road      Zone Description                      Movement Prohibited
N. Liberty Street Between Fairview Ave. & E. Pleasant   U-turn prohibited
N. Fourth Street  Between Fairview Ave. & Walnut Street U-turn prohibited
 
§ 271-27. Speed zones along county roads.
   Speed limits are hereby established for the roadways listed below. Signs
shall be installed in accordance with the appropriate Department of
Transportation Letter of Authorization.
Name of Road Zone Description Maximum Speed Limit (mph)
Name of Road               Zone Description           Maximum Speed Limit (mph)
13th Street (a/k/a) County
Road 78 from Chew Road to  (1) From Second Road to
Pennsylvania Reading       1,500 feet south of center 45
Seashore Lines Railroad    of 1st Road
Grade Crossing
                           (2) From 500 feet south of
                           center of 1st Road to
                           Pennsylvania Reading       40
                           Seashore Lines Railroad
                           Grade Crossing
Central Avenue (County     (1) Bellevue Avenue to
Road 542 or County Road    center of Peach Street     25
11)
                           (2) Center of Peach Street 35
                           to center of Maple Street
                           (3) Center of Maple Street 40
                           to center of Park Avenue
                           (4) Center of Park Avenue  45
                           to U.S. Route 30
Chew Road (County Road     (1) Second Road to 1,350
559)                       feet north of the center   40
                           of 13th Street
                           (2) 1,350 feet north of
                           the center of 13th Street  50
                           to 15th Street
Egg Harbor Road (all       (1) U.S. Route 30 to 600
County Road 2 and County   feet north of center of    40
Road 561 from Moss Mill    Weymouth Road
Road to Bellevue Avenue
                           (2) 600 feet north of
                           center of Weymouth Road to 50
                           center of Walmer Street
                           (3) Center of Walmer
                           Street to center of Grape  40
                           Street
                           (4) Center of Grape Street 35
                           to Fairview Avenue
                           (5) Fairview Avenue to
                           northerly Hammonton Town   50
                           line
                           (1) From Pennsylvania
Fairview Avenue (County    Reading Seashore Lines
Road 78)                   Railroad Grade Crossing to 40
                           center line of Liberty
                           Street (except for Zone 3)
                           (2) From Liberty Street to
                           U.S. Route 30 (except for  45
                           Zone 3)
                           (3) In the Hammonton
                           Junior-Senior High School
                           Zone, during recess or
                           while children are going   30
                           to or leaving school,
                           during opening or closing
                           hours
First Road (County Road    (1) Mays Landing to center 50
88)                        of 12th Street
                           (2) Center of 12th Street  40
                           to center of 13th Street
                           (3) Center of 13th Street  45
                           to 15th Street
                           (4) Between U.S. Route 54
                           and 15th Street
                           [Added 2-13-1989 by Ord.   35
                           No. 4-1989; amended 12-9-
                           1991 by Ord. No. 26-1991]
Railroad Avenue (County    Orchard Street to Fairview
Road 561 or County Road    Avenue                     40
28)
Second Road (County Road   Weymouth Road (in Hamilton 50
559)                       Township) to Chew Road
 
§ 271-28. Speed zones along Town roads.
   Speed limits are hereby established for the roadways listed below. Signs
shall be installed in accordance with the appropriate Department of
Transportation Letter of Authorization.
Name of Road Zone Description Maximum Speed Limit (mph)
Name of Road                             Zone Description   Maximum Speed Limit
                                                            (mph)
Academy Drive                            Entire length      35
[Added 6-21-1999 by Ord. No. 13-1999]
Basin Road                               Entire length      35
[Added 12-11-2017 by Ord. No. 024-2017]
Eighth Street                            Entire length      35
[Added 6-22-1992 by Ord. No. 24-1992]
                                         From the center of
Eleventh Street                          First Road to the  35
[Added 3-25-1991 by Ord. No. 5-1991]     center of Second
                                         Road
                                         Between the
                                         intersection of
Fifteenth Street                         County Road 561    25
[Added 10-28-1996 by Ord. No. 14-1996]   and the
                                         intersection of
                                         14th Street
                                         From the center of
First Road                               U.S. Route 54 to   35
[Added 3-25-1991 by Ord. No. 5-1991]     the center of
                                         Fifteenth Street
                                         Between the
Fourteenth Street                        intersection with
[Added 10-28-1996 by Ord. No. 14-1996]   Egg Harbor Road to 25
                                         the town's
                                         boundary line
Francis Street                           Between North
[Added 7-23-2012 by Ord. No. 020-2012]   Third Street and   25
                                         Egg Harbor Road
Jerry Lane                               Entire length      25
[Added 4-16-2012 by Ord. No. 7-2012]
Lahn Lane                                Entire length      25
[Added 4-16-2012 by Ord. No. 7-2012]
Lakeview Drive
[Added 3-9-1987 by Ord. No. 4-1987;      Entire length      25
amended 12-19-1991 by Ord. No. 27-1991]
Myrtle Street                            Entire length      35
[Added 11-19-2001 by Ord. No. 34-2001]
                                         Between South
Ninth Street                             Second Road and    35
[Added 2-26-2001 by Ord. No. 2-2001]     South Egg Harbor
                                         Road
North First Road [Added 9-24-2018 by     Between Fourteenth
Ord. No. 38-2018]                        Street and         25
                                         Fifteenth Streets
                                         (1) Between Third
Old Forks Road                           Street and Route   40
[Added 7-28-2003 by Ord. No. 14-2003]    U.S. 30, except
                                         for zone (2)
                                         (2) Hammonton High
                                         School Zone,
                                         during recess,
                                         while the presence
                                         of children is
                                         clearly visible    30
                                         from the roadway
                                         or while children
                                         are going to or
                                         leaving school,
                                         during opening or
                                         closing hours
Old Forks Road                           Entire length      25
[Added 12-11-2017 by Ord. No. 024-2017]
Pine Road                                Entire length      35
[Added 12-14-1992 by Ord. No. 37-1992]
Pleasant Street                          From North Third
[Added 12-14-1992 by Ord. No. 37-1992]   Street to Tilton   15
                                         Street
                                         From Moss Mill
Seventh Street                           Road to Boyer      15
[Added 10-22-2007 by Ord. No. 32-2007]   Avenue Recreation
                                         Complex
South Grand Street                       From 12th Street   25
 [Added 8-24-2020 by Ord. No. 007-2020] to 9th Street
South 2nd Road                           From 12th Street   35
 [Added 8-24-2020 by Ord. No. 007-2020] to North Chew Road
Tenth Street                             Between Chew Road  25
[Added 6-25-2018 by Ord. No. 024-2018]   and First Road
                                         (1) Chestnut
Third Street                             Street to the      30
                                         center of Peach
                                         Street
                                         (2) From the
                                         center of Peach
                                         Street to the      25
                                         center of Bellevue
                                         Avenue
                                         (3) From the
                                         center of Bellevue
                                         Avenue to the      30
                                         center of Fairview
                                         Avenue
                                         (3A) In the St.
                                         Joseph's School
                                         Zone, during
                                         recess or while
                                         children are going 25
                                         to or leaving
                                         school, during
                                         opening or closing
                                         hours
                                         (4) From the
                                         center of Fairview
                                         Avenue to the      45
                                         center of Francis
                                         Street
                                         (5) From the
                                         center of Francis  50
                                         Street to the
                                         northern Town line
Thirteenth Street                        From Second Road   40
[Added 10-22-1984 by Ord. No. 19-1984]   to Chews Road
Walnut Street                            Between N. Third
[Added 6-25-2012 by Ord. No. 15-2012]    St. and Old Forks  25
                                         Rd.
Wilsey Mill Road                         Entire length      35
[Added 6-22-1992 by Ord. No. 24-1992]
 
§ 271-29. No-passing zones.
[Added 10-9-1989 by Ord. No. 31-1989]
   A.   Purpose. It is deemed to be in the public interest and necessary to
protect the public health and safety of the residents of the Town of Hammonton
and those individuals traversing within said Town that the no-passing zone
study conducted by New Jersey Department of Transportation along certain
designated highways in the Town of Hammonton be implemented and put in place.
   B.   No-passing zones designated. It is hereby ordained that the streets or
parts of streets described below are hereby designated as no-passing zones, and
the proper municipal officials are hereby authorized, empowered and directed to
do all things necessary for the marking of said roadway consistent with
Department of Transportation regulations in order to give notice that such area
is a no-passing zone.
Name of Street Direction Location
Name of Street                  Direction       Location
Fifteenth Street                                From Second Road to Chew Road
[Added 5-21-2007 by Ord. No.    Both            County Route 559
10-2007]
Fourteenth Street                               From Mays Land-Blue Anchor Road
[Added 5-21-2007 by Ord. No.    Both            County Route Spur 561 to Egg
10-2007]                                        Harbor Road County Route 561
Grand Street
[Added 8-22-1994 by Ord. No.    Both            Entire length
23-1994]
Lakeview Drive                                  From Egg Harbor Road, 2,750
[Added 9-14-1992 by Ord. No.    Both            feet
30-1992]
Line Street                     Both            From South First Road to Egg
                                                Harbor Road
Ninth Street                                    From Moss Mill Road to Grand
[Added 4-12-1993 by Ord. No. 6- Both            Street
1993]
Old Forks Road                                  From Third Street to U.S. Route
[Added 11-18-2002 by Ord. No.   Both            30 (White Horse Pike)
41-2002]
Old Forks Road                                  From Camden County Line to
[Added 10-23-1989 by Ord. No.   Northeast- erly White Horse Pike
36-1989]
Orchard Street                  Both            From North First Road to the
                                                railroad crossing
Passmore Avenue                 Both            From South First Road to Egg
                                                Harbor Road
Ranere Avenue (Fifteenth                        From the railroad crossing to
Street)                         Both            Wilsey Mill Road (County Route
                                                724)
Second Road                                     From Chew Road County Route 559
[Added 5-21-2007 by Ord. No.    Both            to Fifteenth Street
10-2007]
Third Street                                    From Central Avenue County
[Added 2-28-2005 by Ord. No. 1- Both            Route 542 to Peach Street
2005]
Thirteenth Street                               From Second Road to Chew Road
[Added 5-21-2007 by Ord. No.    Both            County Route 559
10-2007]
 
§ 271-30. Crosswalks.
[Added 8-28-1995 by Ord. No. 19-1995]
   A.   Purpose. Pedestrian safety is a major concern to the governing body of
the Town of Hammonton. To promote an atmosphere where individuals can traverse
by foot in the downtown area of the Town of Hammonton, the governing body of
Hammonton is creating crosswalks. These crosswalks will also serve to promote
ease of shopping in downtown Hammonton.
   B.   Crosswalks designated. The locations described below are hereby
designated as "crosswalks":
[Added 8-28-1995 by Ord. No. 19-1995]
 
Name of Street                   Crossing Type Location
Bellevue Avenue                                At the intersection of Central
                                               Avenue and Bellevue Avenue
Bellevue Avenue                                At the intersection of Second
                                               Street and Bellevue Avenue
Central Avenue (County Route                   Beginning at a point 290 feet
542)                                           west of the westerly curbline of
[Added 6-25-2007 by Ord. No. 19- Pedestrian    U.S. Route 30 (White Horse Pike)
2007]                                          and extending to a point 10 feet
                                               westerly there from
Liberty Street                                 940 feet (more or less) in a
[Added 1-21-2008 by Ord. No. 1-  Pedestrian    southwesterly direction from the
2008]                                          center line of Fairview Avenue
Peach Street                                   Beginning at St. Joseph's High
[Added 1-21-2008 by Ord. No. 1-  Pedestrian    School in an easterly direction
2008]                                          to the Masonic Building
Vine Street                                    From the center line of Central
[Added 7-28-2008 by Ord. No. 25- Pedestrian    Avenue (County Route 542) and
2008]                                          extending to a point 10 feet
                                               southwesterly there from
 
   C.   Signage. At each crosswalk signage shall be placed warning the motoring
public that the area is used by pedestrians and that the motoring public is
required to yield to all pedestrian traffic.
§ 271-30A.   The Road to Excellence.
[Added 4-14-2014 by Ord. No. 008-2014]
   A.   The provisions of Title 39 of the New Jersey Statutes Annotated be and
hereby are made applicable to vehicular traffic utilizing The Road to
Excellence; and
   B.   The Hammonton Police Department and all other duly appointed law
enforcement entities shall have the authority to enforce any and all provisions
of Title 39 of the New Jersey Statutes to those vehicles and/or individuals
making use of said roadway; and
   C.   The Town of Hammonton shall, by this action, assume no responsibility
for making any expenditure for physical improvements to the roadway or adjacent
areas including, but not limited to, signage installation; and
   D.   The Town of Hammonton shall have no responsibility for the maintenance
of said roadway; and
   E.   In the event any claim is made against the Town of Hammonton by reason
of the action taken pursuant to this section, the HBOE shall indemnify and hold
the governing body harmless from any costs or expenses incurred thereby.
Article V.
Regulations for Vehicles in Excess of Certain Weights
[Added 5-27-2003 by Ord. No. 8-2003]
§ 271-31. Purpose.
   The purpose of this article is to promote the public health, safety and
welfare by prohibiting the parking of certain vehicles on streets and public
rights-of-way which, because of the size of the vehicle, obscures vision and
hinders the safe movement of traffic along the street or right-of-way.
§ 271-32. Definitions.
   For the purpose of this article, the following terms shall have the meanings
indicated:
   OWNER OF TRAILER/RECREATIONAL VEHICLE
   The owner of the trailer or recreational vehicle, as defined herein above,
shall be, in the case of registered vehicles or trailers, the owner as it
appears on the registration and/or title of said vehicle or trailer as that is
issued through the New Jersey Division of Motor Vehicles and/or the Division of
Motor Vehicles of any other state.
   PARKING
   The standing or waiting on a street, road or highway of a vehicle not
actually engaged in receiving or discharging passengers or merchandise, unless
in abeyance to traffic regulations or traffic signs or signals.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES OR CAMPER
   This shall include any vehicle generally known as a recreational vehicle or
as a camper, whether or not it is required to be registered by the New Jersey
Division of Motor Vehicles and/or the Division of Motor Vehicles of any other
state. It shall include all such recreational vehicles or campers with or
without mode power and shall include, without limitation, recreational vehicles
and campers with engines or the capacity to travel and move without being towed
by another vehicle.
   STANDARD OF 7,000 POUNDS
   For the purpose of this Ordinance, any vehicle whose registered gross weight
is 7,000 pounds or greater shall be subject to the terms and provisions of this
Ordinance.
   STORE OR STORAGE
   To keep or permit a vehicle, trailer, camper or recreational vehicle to be
situated on a street, avenue, terrace, road or right-of-way or any part
thereof, in a stationary position for a period of time in excess of 30 minutes
or such time as is reasonably necessary under the circumstances for the loading
and unloading or cleaning of said vehicle, trailer, camper or recreational
vehicle.
   STREET
   Any street, avenue, terrace, road or public right-of-way contained within
the geographic limits of the Town of Hammonton.
   TRAILER
   A separate vehicle, not driven or propelled by its own power, but drawn by
some independent power. "Trailer" shall mean every vehicle designed carrying
persons or property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle. It shall include
and not be limited to campers, camping popup-trailers, boat trailers, trailers
used in the transportation of any and all property or equipment including,
without limitation, motorcycles, jet skis, lawn-cutting equipment, and
construction equipment. It shall include but not be limited to trailers which
are open and those which are completely enclosed and shall include any trailer
regardless of the gross weight vehicle and/or carrying capacity of same and
shall include all such trailers whether or not they are required to be or are
in fact registered as a motor vehicle and/or trailer through the State of New
Jersey or any other state.
   VEHICLES
   Vehicles shall include but not be limited to, cars, trucks, vans, buses and
trailers.
§ 271-33. Acts prohibited.
   A.   All vehicles with a gross weight of 7,000 pounds or more including
cars, trucks, vans, trailers, buses or any sort, nature or type, shall not be
permitted to park on any street, avenue, terrace, road or public right-of-way,
or any portion thereof. Moreover, any vehicle over 7,000 pounds shall not be
permitted to park on any such street or terrace except for such reasonable
amount of time for the pickup or delivery of persona or materials on such
street, avenue, terrace, road or public right-of-way, or any portion thereof.
   B.   No trailer, camper or recreational vehicle shall be permitted to be
parked or stored on any street, avenue, terrace, road or public right-of-way,
or any portion thereof. The registered owner of said trailer, camper or
recreational vehicle or vehicles of 7,000 pounds or more to the extent they are
registered or by law are required to be registered, shall be responsible for
any violation of this article. In those instances where vehicles, trailers,
campers or recreational vehicles are not registered and are not by law
required, in that instance the actual owner of the trailer, camper or
recreational vehicle and/or the individual who caused it to be parked or stored
shall be responsible for violations of this article.
§ 271-34. Entity or person liable/responsible.
   No individual shall permit any vehicle with a gross weight of 7,000 pounds
or more, or trailer, camper or recreational vehicle owned by them, as defined
herein, to park and/or be stored on any street, avenue, terrace, road or public
right-of-way, or any portion thereof in the Town of Hammonton.
§ 271-35. Violations and penalties.
   Violations of this article, unless another penalty is expressly provided by
New Jersey Statutes, every person convicted of a violation of a provision of
this chapter or any supplement thereto shall be liable to a penalty for a first
offense of not more than $50 or imprisonment for a term not exceeding 15 days,
or both, and for a second offense of not more than $100 or imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 15 days, or both.
Article VI.
Observance of Lawful Orders and Posted Traffic Regulations.
[Added 12-15-2003 by Ord. No. 31-2003]
§ 271-36. Orders and regulations to be observed.
   No person shall disobey or fail to follow the order, direction or other
signal of any police officer, New Jersey State Trooper or other properly
authorized law enforcement official within the Town; nor shall any person
disobey or fail to follow the traffic instruction on any properly posted
traffic control device or traffic signal within the Town.
§ 271-37. Violations and penalties.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall, upon
conviction, be punished for each offense by a fine not to exceed $1,000 or by
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 90 days, or both.
Article VII.
Discourteous, Inconvenient, Annoying or Alarming Conduct from Operation or Use
of Motor Vehicle
[Added 5-19-2008 by Ord. No. 18-2008]
§ 271-38. Prohibitions; enforcement; violations and penalties.
   A.   No person shall operate or use any motor vehicle in such a fashion
which is discourteous and/or which causes public inconvenience, annoyance or
alarm to other operators of motor vehicles and/or pedestrians and/or residents
within the confines of the Town of Hammonton.
   B.   Any officer or member of the Hammonton Police Department shall have the
power and authority to arrest, without warrant, any person found by him/her
violating any of the provisions of this article or committing any of the acts
herein specifically or generally set forth.
   C.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall, upon
conviction, be punished for each offense by a fine not to exceed $1,000 or by
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 90 days, or both.
   D.   If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this article
is, for any reason, held to be unconstitutionally erroneous and/or incorrect,
such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this
article.
   E.   All ordinances or parts of ordinances of the Town of Hammonton,
heretofore adopted, which are inconsistent with any of the terms and provisions
of this article are hereby repealed to the extent of any inconsistency.
   F.   This article shall take effect immediately upon its final passage and
publication as provided by law.
CHAPTER 273.
VEHICLES, MOTOR-DRIVEN
[HISTORY: Adopted by the Mayor and Council of the Town of Hammonton 7-26-2004
by Ord. No. 17-2004. Amendments noted where applicable.]
   
§ 273-1.   Definitions.
   
§ 273-2.   Operation on public property.
   
§ 273-3.   Operation on private property.
   
§ 273-4.   Noise.
   
§ 273-5.   Operation of motor-driven vehicles in careless, reckless or
negligent manner.
   
§ 273-6.   Use by public employees.
   
§ 273-7.   Violations by persons under 18 years of age.
   
§ 273-8.   Violations and penalties.
   
§ 273-9.   Engine braking prohibited.
GENERAL REFERENCES
   Parks and recreation areas — See
Ch. 200.
   Vehicles and traffic — See
Ch. 271.
§ 273-1. Definitions.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the terms used herein are defined as
follows:
   MOTOR-DRIVEN VEHICLES
   Includes but is not limited to two- or four-wheeled motor vehicles such as
motor scooters, trail bikes, go-carts, swamp buggies, go-boards and snowmobiles
and any other motor-driven vehicle not registered under Title 39, Motor
Vehicles and Traffic Regulations of the New Jersey Statutes, as amended.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY
   Includes all streets, sidewalks, easements, parking lots or any other areas
dedicated or commonly used for vehicular or pedestrian traffic.
   TOWN-OWNED LAND
   Includes all parks, recreation areas, ball parks, lake areas, storage
facilities, garage areas, Board of Education property and any and all other
Town or publicly owned land and premises.
§ 273-2. Operation on public property.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or permit to be operated any
motor-driven vehicle, as defined herein, within the Town of Hammonton upon
public property or Town-owned property as defined herein.
§ 273-3. Operation on private property.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or permit operation of any
motor-driven vehicle, as defined herein, within the Town of Hammonton unless
the operator of said motor-driven vehicle has received the express written
prior permission of the owner of said property or occupant to so operate said
vehicle. If said express written permission is presented, the operator shall
keep same on his person for display.
§ 273-4. Noise.
   It shall be unlawful to operate a motor-driven vehicle creating a loud or
unusual noise so as to disturb or interfere with the peace and quiet of others,
and no person shall operate such a motor vehicle before the hours of 9:00 a.m.
and after the hours of 7:00 p.m., prevailing time or sunset, whichever shall
first occur.
§ 273-5. Operation of motor-driven vehicles in careless, reckless or negligent
manner.
   No person shall operate any type of motor-driven vehicle, as herein defined,
in the Town of Hammonton in a careless, reckless or negligent manner so as to
endanger or to likely endanger the safety or property of any person, including
the operator, or the property of any person.
§ 273-6. Use by public employees.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, it shall be unlawful
for any employee of the Town of Hammonton to operate motor-driven vehicles, as
defined herein, for the purpose of maintenance, repair or the performance of
any public work within the scope of his/her employment.
§ 273-7. Violations by persons under 18 years of age.
   Any person under the age of 18 years who violates or fails to comply with
this chapter shall be penalized in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter. Upon a second or subsequent violation, it shall be reputably presumed
that any person under 18 years of age and who resides with his/her guardian is
operating said motor-driven vehicle with permission of said parents or
guardians.
§ 273-8. Violations and penalties.
   Unless otherwise specified herein for violation of any provision of this
ordinance, the maximum penalties upon conviction shall be a fine not exceeding
$500 or by imprisonment not exceeding 90 days or a period of community service
not exceeding 90 days, or any combination herein.
§ 273-9. Engine braking prohibited.
[Added 9-26-2016 by Ord. No. 018-2016]
   A.   Purpose. The Mayor and Council of the Town of Hammonton have determined
that the use of "engine braking," as defined by this section, causes unwanted
noise, pollutants and disturbances in the Town, and are a detriment to the
health, safety and general welfare of the residents of the Town of Hammonton.
   B.   Definitions. As used in this section, the following terms shall have
the meanings indicated:
      ENGINE BRAKING — The use or operation of any engine brake, compression
brake or mechanical exhaust device designed to aid in the braking,
decompression, or deceleration of any motor vehicle which results in the
excessive, loud, unusual or explosive noise from such vehicle.
   C.   Prohibition. It shall be unlawful for the driver of any motor vehicle
to use or operate or cause to be used or operated, at any time and on any road
within the Town of Hammonton, any engine brake, mechanical exhaust or
decompression device which results in the practice known as "engine braking."
   D.   Signage. Appropriate signage shall be placed at reasonable locations
within the Town warning the public about the prohibition of "engine braking."
   E.   Exceptions. This prohibition shall not apply to the application of
unmuffled engine or compression brakes or a mechanical exhaust device where
necessary for the protection of persons and/or property which cannot be avoided
by an alternative braking system or where the application is necessary for the
health, safety and welfare of the community. Sounds created by emergency
equipment for emergency purposes are exempt from this section.
   F.   Violations and penalties. Unless another penalty is expressly provided
by New Jersey Statute, any person, partnership, company, or corporation
convicted of a violation of this section shall be subject to one or more of the
following: a fine of not more than $1,000, imprisonment for a period not to
exceed 90 days or a period of community service not to exceed 90 days.
CHAPTER 274.
VEHICLES, MUNICIPALLY OWNED
[HISTORY: Adopted by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton 9-
25-1989 by Ord. No. 26-1989. Amendments noted where applicable.]
   
§ 274-1.   Removal outside town limits; consent required.
   
§ 274-2.   Emergency aid to neighboring municipalities.
   
§ 274-3.   Nonapplicability to vehicle repairs.
   
§ 274-4.   Violations and penalties.
GENERAL REFERENCES
   Vehicles and traffic — See
Ch. 271.
   Ethical standards concerning use of public vehicles — See
Ch. 22.
§ 274-1. Removal outside town limits; consent required.
   The fire apparatus, fire-fighting equipment and vehicles, emergency
apparatus, equipment and vehicles, highway apparatus, equipment and vehicles
and police apparatus, equipment and vehicles owned by the Town of Hammonton
shall not be taken outside the Town of Hammonton limits of said town by any
person or persons other than an authorized employee or representative of the
Town of Hammonton without first obtaining the consent of the Mayor and Council
of said Town of Hammonton, expressed in a duly adopted resolution thereof,
except as hereinafter provided.
§ 274-2. Emergency aid to neighboring municipalities.
   The Hammonton fire companies by their proper officers and members, the
Hammonton Rescue Squad by its proper officers and members, the Hammonton
Highway Department by its proper supervisors and workers and the Hammonton
Police Department by its proper supervisors and workers may, from time to time,
in case of emergency, take said fire apparatus, fire-fighting equipment and
vehicles, emergency apparatus, equipment and vehicles, highway apparatus,
equipment and vehicles and police apparatus, equipment and vehicles into any
neighboring municipality to render aid in the event of an emergency, when such
aid shall have been requested by the officials of such neighboring municipality
or by the officers of the Fire Department thereof; provided, however, that such
municipality or the Fire Department thereof shall have agreed to bring its fire
apparatus, fire-fighting equipment and vehicles, emergency apparatus, equipment
and vehicles, highway equipment and vehicles and police apparatus, equipment
and vehicles into said Town of Hammonton, in case of emergency, to render aid
in an emergency, whenever such aid may have been requested by the officials of
this town or the officers of this town's fire company.
§ 274-3. Nonapplicability to vehicle repairs.
   Nothing herein contained shall be construed to prohibit the taking of the
fire apparatus, fire-fighting equipment and vehicles, emergency apparatus,
equipment and vehicles, highway apparatus, equipment and vehicles and police
apparatus, equipment and vehicles of said Town of Hammonton outside the limits
thereof by persons having lawful custody of such apparatus and equipment and
vehicles for the purpose of having the same repaired.
§ 274-4. Violations and penalties.
   Any person who shall violate any of the terms or provisions of this chapter
or do any act or thing herein prohibited shall, upon conviction thereof, be
subject to one or more of the following: a fine of not more than $1,000,
imprisonment for a period not to exceed 90 days or a period of community
service not to exceed 90 days, as shall be determined and imposed by the
Municipal Judge before whom such person shall be tried and convicted; provided,
however, that such Municipal Judge shall have the power, in his/her discretion,
to impose both fine and imprisonment not exceeding the respective maximum
limits herein fixed.
CHAPTER 275.
WATER
[HISTORY: Adopted by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton as
indicated in article histories. Amendments noted where applicable. Editor's
Note: Ordinance No. 5-2006 adopted
Ch. 6, Art. VI, and provided for the elimination of the Municipal Utilities
Advisory Committee (MUAC). Per §
6-41, MUAC references, any references to the MUAC in this chapter shall be
construed as making reference to “Mayor and Council” or its water and sewer
subcommittee. ]
ARTICLE I.
General Regulations; Charges
   
§ 275-1.   Purpose.
   
§ 275-2.   Violation of written rules.
   
§ 275-2.1. Connection requirement.
   
§ 275-3.   Charges for connection and hookup.
   
§ 275-4.   (Reserved)
   
§ 275-5.   Turn-on and turnoff charges.
   
§ 275-6.   Fire protection.
   
§ 275-7.   Water rates.
   
§ 275-8.   Charges for water used during construction.
   
§ 275-9.   Payment of water bills; late payment penalties.
   
§ 275-10.   Time limit for appeals and requests for refunds for bills and
assessment.
   
§ 275-11.   Violations and penalties.
   
§ 275-12.   Review and recommendations.
   
§ 275-12A.   Inspection.
ARTICLE II.
Tie-Ins and New Water Mains
   
§ 275-13.   Approval required.
   
§ 275-14.   Submission of copies of plans.
   
§ 275-15.   Exception.
   
§ 275-16.   Minimum requirements for plans.
   
§ 275-17.   Approval standard.
   
§ 275-18.   Application fee.
   
§ 275-19.   Review of plans after corrections.
   
§ 275-20.   Specifications.
   
§ 275-21.   Testing.
   
§ 275-22.   Cost sharing for extension of water distribution system.
   
§ 275-23.   Charges for water service lateral connection fees.
   
§ 275-24.   Exemption from water service lateral connection fees.
   
§ 275-25.   Reservation of water service lateral connections.
   
§ 275-26.   Violations and penalties.
ARTICLE III.
Water Connections Within Groundwater Impact Area
   
§ 275-27.   Purpose.
   
§ 275-28.   Condition of NJDEP grant.
   
§ 275-29.   Violations and penalties.
   
§ 275-30.   2008 expanded applicability to Basin Road, Pine Road, Oak Road,
Union Road and U.S. Route 30 (White Horse Pike).
ARTICLE IV.
Water Conservation
   
§ 275-31.   Purpose and intent; water conservation methods.
   
§ 275-32.   Authorization to declare a state of water supply conservation.
   
§ 275-33.   Water conservation stages.
   
§ 275-34.   Notice of declaration.
   
§ 275-35.   Effect of declaration.
   
§ 275-36.   Termination of declaration.
   
§ 275-37.   Inspections.
   
§ 275-38.   Prohibited use of water.
   
§ 275-39.   Continued prohibited use of water; notice of violation; abatement
by Town.
   
§ 275-40.   Violations and penalties.
   
§ 275-41.   Water conservation tax credit/rebate program.
GENERAL REFERENCES
   Water and sewer subcommittee — See
Ch. 6, Art. VI.
   Water quality — See
Ch. 175, §
175-137.
   Sewers — See
Chs. 223 and
226.
Article I.
General Regulations; Charges
[Amended 2-9-1981 by Ord. No. 1-1981; 6-13-1983 by Ord. No. 3-1983; 3-26-1984
by Ord. No. 4-1984; 7-25-1988 by Ord. No. 17-1988; 12-14-1992 by Ord. No. 34-
1992]
§ 275-1. Purpose.
   The purpose of this article is to conform to existing procedures and address
the issues encountered by the Municipal Water Department. Editor's Note: The
Water Department was inactivated 1-24-2011 by Ord. No. 3-2011. See now
Ch. 53, Department of Public Utilities; Superintendent of Public Works. The
governing body has previously abolished, by ordinance, the Board of Water
Commissioners. The governing body has created and appointed an advisory
committee entitled the Municipal Utilities Advisory Committee to review and
make recommendations to the Mayor and Council on utility issues. It is also
determined to be in the public interest that the Water Department collect
revenues necessary to balance the Department budget, but no revenues shall be
accumulated beyond that amount necessary to cover operating expenses and
anticipated capital cost.
§ 275-2. Violation of written rules.
[Amended 7-23-2001 by Ord. No. 26-2001]
   Any person, corporation or firm who shall violate any of the printed rules
and regulations of the Water Department Editor's Note: The Water Department was
inactivated 1-24-2011 by Ord. No. 3-2011. See now
Ch. 53, Department of Public Utilities; Superintendent of Public Works. shall
be subject to the penalties as set forth in §
275-11.
§ 275-2.1. Connection requirement.
[Amended 3-25-2002 by Ord. No. 8-2002]
   A.   The owner of every existing house, building or structure and the owner
of every house, building or structure hereafter to be constructed or acquired,
which may be occupied or used by human beings, located on a street along the
line of a municipal water main now or hereafter constructed or acquired in the
Town of Hammonton, where such house, building or structure is located not more
than 200 feet from said water main, is and shall be required to connect to the
municipal water system where no on-site well exists.
   B.   The owner of every existing house, building or structure which is now
serviced by an on-site well for potable water shall be required to make
connection to the municipal water main upon the failure of the existing on-site
well. For the purpose of this section, "failure of an existing well" shall be
defined as any well which requires replacement and/or redrilling.
§ 275-3. Charges for connection and hookup.
[Amended 6-20-1994 by Ord. No. 16-1994]
   A.   Where there are no connections already made to the curbs from the water
mains, there shall be a charge of $1,500, called a "connection fee," per unit,
for the privilege of connecting to the town's water mains.
   B.   Charges for hookup. In addition to the aforementioned connection fee,
the following charges are assessed:
      (1)   The fee for a one-inch tap shall be $725, which includes a
corporation stop, service pipe to the curb, curb stop, curb stop box and labor.
There shall also be a charge for the water meter, meter horn, county road
opening permit, state road opening permit and road restoration. The
aforementioned additional charges shall be set forth in a schedule prepared by
the Water Superintendent and adopted by the Mayor and Council at the first
regular meeting of each year.
      (2)   The fee for a two-inch tap fee shall be $1,340, which includes a
corporation stop, service pipe to the curb, curb stop, curb stop box and labor.
There shall also be a charge for the water meter, meter horn, county road
opening permit, state road opening permit and road restoration. The
aforementioned additional charges shall be set forth in a schedule prepared by
the Water Superintendent and adopted by the Mayor and Council at the first
regular meeting of each year.
      (3)   For the installation of any tap larger than two inches on any type
of service, the charge will be based on time and material expended. If,
however, the owner decides to hire a private contractor to handle the
installation, the owner shall still be responsible to pay a fee to the Town of
Hammonton for the purpose of having the Water Department Director Editor's
Note: The Water Department was inactivated 1-24-2011 by Ord. No. 3-2011. See
now
Ch. 53, Department of Public Utilities; Superintendent of Public Works. or
selected personnel oversee the installation. The charge for this service shall
be made on a time basis.
      (4)   If existing lines are modified to increase three-fourths-inch
equipment to any greater size, the additional equipment which must be installed
shall be charged on a time-and-cost basis.
§ 275-4. (Reserved) 4a
4a.   Editor’s Note: Former § 275-4, Service and Maintenance Charges for
Meters, was repealed 12-16-2013 by Ord. No. 030-2013.
§ 275-5. Turn-on and turnoff charges.
   Whenever a connection has already been made and it is desired to either turn
off the water or, when the water has been turned off, to open the same, there
shall be a charge of $25 for either one of these services.
§ 275-6. Fire protection.
   All buildings which maintain fire protection, either by the installation of
sprinkler systems for the purpose of fire protection or by the installation of
a private fire hydrant, shall be required to install a meter approved by the
Water Department  5  and shall also be required to pay a fee of $400 for the
privilege of having municipal water service for the fire protection. The fee
shall be an annual charge.
 
Notes
  5.   Editor's Note: The Water Department was inactivated 1-24-2011 by Ord. No. 3-
5 2011. See now Ch. 53, Department of Public Utilities; Superintendent of Public
  Works.
§ 275-7. Water rates.
[Amended 12-19-1994 by Ord. No. 36-1994; 5-12-1997 by Ord. No. 4-1997; 5-14-
2012 by Ord. No. 10-2012; 3-23-2015 by Ord. No. 006-2015]
   For the use of water, there shall be charged the following semi-annual
rates, to begin the billing cycle following adoption of Ord. No. 006-2015:
   A.   For the first 3,000 cubic feet or less: $140.
   B.   From 3,001 to 5,000 cubic feet: $32 per 1,000 cubic feet.
   C.   From 5,001 to 10,000 cubic feet: $34 per 1,000 cubic feet.
   D.   For each 1,000 cubic feet over 10,000 cubic feet: $36.
§ 275-8. Charges for water used during construction.
   For the use of water during construction, there shall be a rate charge of
$50 for residential construction and $100 for all other types of construction.
§ 275-9. Payment of water bills; late payment penalties.
[Amended 12-19-1994 by Ord. No. 36-1994; 5-12-1997 by Ord. No. 4-1997; 5-14-
2012 by Ord. No. 10-2012; 3-23-2015 by Ord. No. 006-2015]
   Assessed and minimum meter rates are payable quarterly, in advance. All
water rates are to be charged from the date the water is turned on. For water
consumption in excess of the minimum quantity, the charge as per meter
statement will be made at the close of each six months. The bill shall be due
when rendered. If any bill is not paid when due, interest will be assessed per
54:4-67. If a bill is more than 45 days past due, water service may be
terminated.
§ 275-10. Time limit for appeals and requests for refunds for bills and
assessment.
[Added 10-26-1998 by Ord. No. 28-1998]
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish a time limit for
appeals and requests for refunds for municipal water and sewer bills and
assessments.
   B.   Definition. For the purpose of this section a municipal water and sewer
bill or assessment shall include but not be limited to connection fees, hookup
fees, user fees, minimum and excess water and sewer readings upon which bills
are calculated.
   C.   Applicability. The limitations outlined herein shall be applicable to
all persons, organizations, partnerships, corporations, or any legal entity
which is owner of record or recipient of the municipal sewer or water bills or
assessments.
   D.   Time for appeals and requests for refund. Appeals and requests for
refund from municipal water and sewer bills and assessments shall be taken
within 180 days from the date when the bill or assessment first becomes due.
Any appeal or request for refund filed after the one-hundred-eighty-day time
for appeal shall be time barred.
   E.   Filing of appeal (place and manner). An appeal or request for refund
shall be considered timely made pursuant to this section when a written request
for appeal or refund is made and filed with the Clerk/Administrator's Office of
the Town of Hammonton for Mayor and Council consideration within the 180 day
time period.
§ 275-11. Violations and penalties.
[Amended 5-16-2016 by Ord. No. 009-2016]
   A.   Any person violating a provision of this article shall, upon conviction
in the Hammonton Municipal Court, be subject to one or more of the following: a
fine of not more than $1,000, imprisonment for a period not to exceed 90 days
or a period of community service not to exceed 90 days.
   B.   If a person has previously been convicted for a violation of § 275-12A
in the Hammonton Municipal Court then, upon a second conviction in the
Hammonton Municipal Court for a violation of §
275-12A, the Town of Hammonton may proceed to install a meter pit which shall
be located inside the property line. The Town reserves the right to determine
the size and kind of meter pit for the premises. The Town of Hammonton shall
send an itemized bill/invoice for the cost of the installation of the meter pit
to the property owner. This bill/invoice shall be payable within 30 days of the
town sending the owner the bill/invoice. If the owner fails to pay the bill/
invoice within 30 days of the town sending the owner the bill/invoice, then
such amount, together with an administrative fee of $500 to address the town's
administrative expenses shall be a lien against the property and recorded and
collected as provided by the statutes of the State of New Jersey.
§ 275-12. Review and recommendations.
   Specifications for all tie-in and new water main systems shall be subject to
review by the Municipal Utilities Advisory Committee. The Committee shall make
any recommendation to the Mayor and Council, who shall be responsible to make
the final decision.
§ 275-12A. Inspection.
[Added 5-16-2016 by Ord. No. 009-2016]
   All premises receiving water from the Town of Hammonton shall be subject to
inspection and access between sunrise and sunset by the Town of Hammonton's
employees or any other person duly authorized and appointed by the town to
perform inspections of water meters for the purpose of determining the rate of
water consumption. It shall be a violation of this article for any person to
hinder, obstruct, delay, resist or prevent any such inspection as is described
herein and such person shall be subject to the violations and penalties set
forth in §
275-11, above.
Article II.
Tie-Ins and New Water Mains
[Adopted 10-25-1976 by Ord. No. 21-1976]
§ 275-13. Approval required.
Editor's Note: Amended at time of adoption of Code (see
Ch. 1, General Provisions, Art. I). No person shall hereafter be permitted to
tie a water service line or new water main into the existing water system of
the Town of Hammonton until the plan or plans of such tie-in or main shall have
been submitted to and approved by the Water Superintendent. Such approval must
be in writing or be stamped on such plan or plans.
§ 275-14. Submission of copies of plans.
   Any person hereunder desiring to tie a water service line or new main into
the existing water system of the Town of Hammonton shall make a map or plat of
the area where the tie-in or main is desired, showing the existing lines of the
water system of the Town of Hammonton, together with the proposed new lines,
and shall submit three copies of such plan, together with an estimate of the
amount of water to be consumed, to the Water Superintendent for approval or
rejection. If approved, such approval shall be certified thereon and signed by
the Water Superintendent, and no such tie-in or new main shall be permitted
until it shall have been so approved.
§ 275-15. Exception.
   No such request for approval as set forth in §§
275-13 and 275-14 of this article shall be required for the tie-in of single-
family dwellings fronting on an existing water main; however, the tie-in of
such single-family dwellings shall continue to be governed in accordance with
the provisions of Article I of this chapter.
§ 275-16. Minimum requirements for plans.
   The minimum requirements for tie-in or new main plans shall be as follows:
   A.   All plans shall be in triplicate, drawn to a scale of not more than 100
feet to the inch and shall be clearly and neatly drawn.
   B.   All plans shall show the proposed and existing waterlines and mains,
together with street and boundary lines in the area to be affected by the
proposed tie-in or new main.
   C.   The proposed use to be made of the water supply shall be set forth,
together with estimates of the amount of water to be consumed, which may be
based on the number of units if it is to be put to a residential use or may be
based on industry surveys if it is a commercial use.
   D.   The materials and specifications for all water improvements shall be
set forth.
   E.   Any proposed additions to, alterations of or extensions to off-site
existing water mains shall be shown on the plans in their entirety.
§ 275-17. Approval standard.
   Requests and applications for connections to the existing water system of
the Town of Hammonton or for extending the existing water mains of the Town of
Hammonton shall not be approved by the Water Superintendent if such facilities
will cause detriment to the available pressure in the water system or if
sufficient pressure does not exist in the system to adequately service both the
current and proposed users of the system after the proposed extension has been
completed and placed in use. For the purpose of this article, a proposed user
of the system shall be defined as any person(s) possessing an approved water
service lateral connection.
§ 275-18. Application fee.
   Subject to the exceptions provided for in §
275-15, the applicant for a tie-in under this article shall pay to the Water
Superintendent an application fee in accordance with the following schedule:
   A.   Filing fee: $50.
   B.   Plan review fee:
      (1)   Eight-inch or less line: $0.10 per foot; over eight-inch line:
$0.15 per foot; minimum charge of $250 for over eight-inch line.
      (2)   Water supplier storage facilities: a deposit of 2% of the
engineer's estimate of costs.
   C.   Inspection fees for supply, storage and/or plumbing facilities and
distribution facilities: a deposit of 6% of the engineer's estimate of costs.
§ 275-19. Review of plans after corrections.
   Additional reviews of plans after required corrections are made will be at a
rate similar to §
275-18 above.
§ 275-20. Specifications.
   Specifications for all tie-in and new water main systems shall be subject to
the approval of the Water Superintendent, both as to adequacy of materials and
design. Lists of acceptable materials are available from the Water
Superintendent.
§ 275-21. Testing.
   Prior to allowing any improvement to be tied into the water system of the
Town of Hammonton, it shall be tested by the applicant and at the applicant's
expense under the supervision of the Engineer and Water Superintendent.
§ 275-22. Cost sharing for extension of water distribution system.
   Any proposed extension of the Town of Hammonton water system main lines may
require the contribution of funds on the part of the applicant. In determining
the amount of such contribution, the Superintendent shall take into
consideration the fair share of the cost of the general improvement to be made
by the applicant, together with the total cost of the improvement and any such
share that may be assessable to property owners and any share which is to be
paid by the Town of Hammonton. The undertaking of cost sharing for the
installation of any improvements or extensions to the water system main lines
by the Water Superintendent of the Town of Hammonton is subject to the
availability of municipal funds. All contributions required of applicants must
be deposited with the Water Superintendent prior to the advertising of bids for
construction of the improvement.
§ 275-23. Charges for water service lateral connection fees.
   A.   In addition to those charges, rates and fees set forth within this
article, there shall be charged a water service lateral connection fee for each
additional connection to the existing water supply system of the Town of
Hammonton made subsequent to the enactment of this article.
   B.   Connection fees for new and additional connections, as defined herein,
shall be payable in advance to the Water Superintendent of the Town of
Hammonton, in accordance with the following fee schedule:
 Connection Domestic Consumer Unit
 Connection                                              Domestic Consumer Unit
 Single-family homes                                     1
 Rented rooms, each room available for rent              1/4
 Single-family with place of business, including         11/4
 professional offices
 Hotel or apartment house (for each living unit)         1
 Motel (for each living unit)                            1/2
 Apartments (for each living unit)                       1
 Schools (for each 30 pupils and faculty)                1
 Churches                                                1
 Clubs, societies, service organizations (with bar and/  1
 or restaurant facilities, 1 additional unit)
 Gymnasiums in schools, etc.                             2
 Public buildings (for each 5 employees)                 1
 Service stations, without car wash facilities           2
 Service stations, with car washing facilities           3
 Diner, tavern or restaurant
  1 to 50 seating capacity                               3
  Each additional 15 seating capacity or segment thereof 1
 Soda fountain and/or luncheonette
  For first 10 seating capacity                          1
  For each additional 20 seats or segment thereof        1
 Laundromat or self-service laundry
  For each washer over 12 pounds' capacity               1
  For each washer of not more than 12 pounds' capacity   1/2
 Supermarkets (for each 5 employees)                     1
 Drive-in restaurants
  Seating capacity under 10                              3
  Seating capacity for additional 15 seats or fraction   1
  thereof
 Business establishment, not otherwise classified
 whether part of dwelling or not (for each 15 employees  1
 or segment thereof)
 Industrial plant (for each 5 employees)                 1
 Amusement park                                          5
 Public recreational facilities                          5
 Bakery (with baking facilities, whether part of a       2
 dwelling or not)
 
   C.   Charges for water service lateral connection fees shall be in the
amount of $600 per domestic consumer unit.
[Amended 7-25-1988 by Ord. No. 17-1988]
§ 275-24. Exemption from water service lateral connection fees.
   A.   Any and all property owners and/or their successors in interest
currently participating under the assessment of benefits program with reference
to the municipal water system of the Town of Hammonton shall not be required to
pay the water service lateral connection fee set forth in §
275-23, subject to the following limitations:
      (1)   Each person who qualified under this section shall receive at least
one water service lateral connection equivalent to one domestic consumer unit
per each building lot currently under assessment of benefit.
      (2)   In order for any person to qualify under the provisions of this
section, said person shall be required to file, within one year from date of
enactment, an application, in writing, with the Water Department of Town of
Hammonton Editor's Note: The Water Department was inactivated 1-24-2011 by Ord.
No. 3-2011. See now
Ch. 53, Department of Public Utilities; Superintendent of Public Works.
requesting utilization of municipal water services.
   B.   In the event that any lot owner so qualifying under this article
requests a water service lateral connection of greater capacity than that
described as one domestic consumer unit, said person shall receive a credit in
an amount equal to that of one domestic consumer unit, said sum to be deducted
from the appropriate water service lateral connection fee for the requested
usage.
§ 275-25. Reservation of water service lateral connections.
   In the event that any person(s), including a corporation, requests and
obtains the necessary permits to connect to the then existing municipal water
supply system and fails to complete said connection and/or fails to become a
user of said system within a period of one year commencing upon the approval of
said connection, said person(s) shall thereafter become liable for the payment
of the minimum water rate, as set forth within this article.
§ 275-26. Violations and penalties.
   Any person convicted of violating any provision of this article shall be
subject to one or more of the following: a fine of not more than $1,000,
imprisonment for a period not to exceed 90 days or a period of community
service not to exceed 90 days.
Article III.
Water Connections Within Groundwater Impact Area
[Adopted 4-26-1993 by Ord. No. 9-1993; amended in its entirety 11-24-2008 by
Ord. No. 38-2008]
§ 275-27. Purpose.
   The Town of Hammonton has qualified for grant money from the New Jersey
Department of Environmental Protection (NJDEP). This grant money must be used
to install the Town's water distribution system in the area known as the
"Lakeview Gardens Section" of the Town of Hammonton and designated by the NJDEP
as within the groundwater impact area. Those properties so affected are listed
in List A attached hereto and have been so designated by the NJDEP because of
the indication of contaminates in their well water. Editor's Note: Said List A
is on file in the office of the Town Clerk/Municipal Administrator. It is the
express purpose of the Town of Hammonton to provide potable, drinkable water to
its citizenry.
§ 275-28. Condition of NJDEP grant.
   An express condition of the NJDEP grant is that all wells within the
groundwater impact area must be capped, and the property owners must connect
with the Town of Hammonton's water distribution system. All those property
owners with improvements on their lots or with a need for water shall, upon
completion of the waterline improvements in the groundwater impact area,
connect to the water distribution system and cap all existing wells.
§ 275-29. Violations and penalties.
   Anyone not connecting to the system and/or failing to cap their well when
required to do so shall be subject to one or more of the following: a fine of
not more than $1,000, imprisonment for a period not to exceed 90 days or a
period of community service not to exceed 90 days.
§ 275-30. 2008 expanded applicability to Basin Road, Pine Road, Oak Road, Union
Road and U.S. Route 30 (White Horse Pike).
   A.   The terms and conditions applicable to the original version of this
article adopted as Ordinance Number 9-1993 on April 26, 1993, shall also be
applicable to the 2008 water main extension project for the area bounded and/or
adjacent to the following roadways: Basin Road, Pine Road, Oak Road, Union Road
and U.S. Route 30 (White Horse Pike).
   B.   The Town of Hammonton has qualified for grant money to install a public
water distribution system in this portion of Hammonton as more fully described
in List B attached hereto due to the possible presence of contaminants in the
potable well water servicing properties in this area Editor's Note: Said List B
is on file in the office of the Town Clerk/Municipal Administrator.
(hereinafter referred to as the groundwater impact area "GIA"). The Town may
grant exemptions from the well-sealing requirement as set forth above for those
wells for which the NJDEP has issued a preliminary review letter noting the
conditions of exemption and by the property owner presenting satisfactory proof
that he/she has agreed to abide by those conditions, as well as any other
conditions to be imposed by the Town of Hammonton, New Jersey Department of
Environmental Protection or any other governmental entity.
   C.   The properties so exempted must be zoned for agricultural use and must,
at the time of application for exemption, be actively utilized for such
agricultural purposes such that it qualifies or is capable of qualifying for
farmland assessment.
   D.   In all other respects, Ordinance Number 9-1993 shall remain in full
force and effect.
Article IV.
Water Conservation
[Adopted 8-24-2009 by Ord. No. 16-2009]
§ 275-31. Purpose and intent; water conservation methods.
   A.   It is hereby declared that the pubic health, safety and welfare require
that the Town of Hammonton maximize the beneficial use of its available natural
resources and that the water or unreasonable use or unreasonable method of use
of water be prevented. The conservation of such potable water resource is to be
extended with a view to the reasonable and beneficial use thereof as is
necessary for sanitary, domestic and fire-fighting purposes in the interests of
the people of the Town of Hammonton. Each resident and business within the Town
of Hammonton connected to the public water supply is encouraged to support and
use water conservation measures throughout the year in order to preserve and
protect this valuable commodity. The Water Superintendent of the Town of
Hammonton will provide pubic notice during the year listing various methods
that the general public and business sector can use to conserve water use for
the benefit of all.
   B.   Listed below are some of the measures that should be used to conserve
water:
      (1)   Check regularly to make sure all pipes, faucets, toilets and other
systems and equipment are free of leaks and drips.
      (2)   Water lawn no more frequently than every other day and limit
irrigation time to 30 minutes within each zone. (See Subsection B(10) below for
specific restrictions during the months of June, July, August and September.)
      (3)   Install rain sensor gauges to lawn sprinkler systems to prevent
irrigation during rain events.
      (4)   Install drip irrigation where possible within landscaped areas to
avoid excessive water use.
      (5)   Install low-volume toilets.
      (6)   Install low-flow shower heads.
      (7)   All faucets should be equipped with aerators. Aerator screens
should be cleaned on a regular basis.
      (8)   Use water intermittently when brushing teeth and washing dishes and
utensils.
      (9)   Run dishwashers and washing machines only with full loads.
      (10)   During the months of June, July, August and September, the
following lawn irrigation practices (manual and automatic) shall apply.
         (a)   House numbers ending in an even number: lawns may be irrigated
on Monday, Wednesday and Friday.
         (b)   House numbers ending in an odd number: lawns may be irrigated on
Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday.
         (c)   Lawn irrigation systems shall not be used on Sundays.
         (d)   In the event of a rain event producing precipitation in excess
of 0.75 inch within a twenty-four-hour period preceding the designated
irrigation day, lawn irrigation systems shall not be utilized.
         (e)   Installation of al new automatic lawn irrigation systems must
include the installation of a rain sensor gauge in order to conserve public
water.
         (f)   Lawn irrigation systems should be periodically checked to ensure
that excess watering does not result in the flow of water into the street
gutterline or onto adjacent properties.
§ 275-32. Authorization to declare a state of water supply conservation.
   A.   The Mayor and Council of the Town of Hammonton, by and through the Town
of Hammonton Water Department, Editor's Note: The Water Department was
inactivated 1-24-2011 by Ord. No. 3-2011. See now
Ch. 53, Department of Public Utilities; Superintendent of Public Works. may
declare a State of Water Supply Conservation upon a recommendation by the Water
Superintendant and by a majority vote of the Water Subcommittee of the Public
Works and Transportation Committee, or its successor, that conservation
measures are necessary and appropriate to ensure an adequate supply of water to
all water customers of the Town of Hammonton.
   B.   In case of an emergency in which, in the opinion of the Water
Department's Superintendent, the available supply of water becomes dangerously
low, the Town of Hammonton Water Department through the Water Subcommittee of
the Public Works and Transportation Committee, or its successor, is hereby
authorized to recommend to the full Mayor and Council to declare by resolution
the existence of a water emergency.
   C.   The resolution (hereinafter referred to as the "declaration") by the
Town of Hammonton shall state that an emergency exists requiring the
implementation of such measures for the conservation of water for domestic and
sanitary purposes and fire protection as are specified in §
275-33.
§ 275-33. Water conservation stages.
   A.   It is unlawful for any customer of the Town of Hammonton to make,
cause, use or permit the use of water from the Town of Hammonton for
residential, commercial, industrial, agricultural, governmental or any other
purpose in a manner contrary to any provision herein, or in an amount in excess
of that use permitted by the blowing conservation stages which shall be placed
into effect pursuant to action taken by the Town of Hammonton, or its
designees, in accordance with these provisions.
   B.   Uses of water in violation of the standards set forth herein shall
include, but shall not be limited to, the following practices:
      (1)   A customer shall not let water leave the customer's property by
drainage onto adjacent properties or public or private roadways, streets or
storm sewer systems due to excessive irrigation and/or uncorrected leaks.
      (2)   A customer will not fail to repair a water leak upon notice by the
Superintendant or his authorized designee to repair said leak.
   C.   The following stages shall take effect upon issuance of a Declaration
as herein provided.
      (1)   Stage 1: water alert mandatory compliance. Upon implementation by
the Town of Hammonton and publication of notice in one or more of the Town's
official newspapers, the following Stage 1 water conservation measures shall
apply:
         (a)   Lawn watering and landscape irrigation, including construction
irrigation, is permitted only during designated hours on designated days,
regardless of the particular month.
            [1]   Watering is permitted at any time if:
               [a]   A hand-held hose equipped with a positive shut-off nozzle
is used; or
               [b]   A hand-held container is used; or
               [c]   A drip irrigation system is used.
            [2]   Commercial nurseries, commercial sod farms and similarly
situated establishments are exempt from Stage 1 irrigation restrictions but
will be required to curtail all nonessential water use.
         (b)   The washing of automobiles, trucks, trailers, boats, airplanes
and other types of mobile equipment, is permitted at any lime with a hand-held
bucket or a hand-held hose equipped with a positive shut-off nozzle for quick
rinses. Washing may be done at any time on the immediate premises of a
commercial car wash or commercial service station, or by a mobile car wash or
on-site car wash using high-pressure washing equipment. Further, such washings
are exempted from those regulations where the health, safety and welfare of the
public is contingent upon frequent vehicle cleanings, such as garbage trucks
and vehicles to transport food and perishables.
         (c)   Irrigation of golf courses, parks, school grounds and recreation
fields is permitted only during designated hours on designated days, except
golf course greens which may be irrigated to remain viable.
         (d)   The overfilling of swimming pods and spas is prohibited. The
filling or refilling of ponds and artificial lakes is prohibited.
         (e)   Use of water from fire hydrants shall be limited to
firefighting, related activities or other activities necessary to maintain the
health, safety and welfare of the citizens of Hammonton.
         (f)   All restaurants are prohibited from serving water to their
customers except when specifically requested by the customers.
         (g)   Water shall not be used to wash down sidewalks, driveways,
parking areas, tennis courts, patios or other paved areas, except to alleviate
immediate fire or sanitation hazards. High-pressure washing of such surfaces
will be permitted.
         (h)   Ornamental fountains and garden ponds may operate if they
recirculate water. Ornamental fountains and garden ponds that do not recycle
water are prohibited.
         (i)   Construction operations receiving water from a construction
meter or water truck shall not use water unnecessarily for any purposes other
than those required by regulatory agencies. Construction projects requiring
watering for new landscaping materials should adhere to the designated
irrigation hours associated with Subsection C(1)(a) of Stage 1.
      (2)   Stage 2: water warning mandatory compliance. Stage 2 applies during
periods when the Town of Hammonton will not be able to meet all of the water
demands of its customers. Upon implementation by the Town of Hammonton and
publication of notice, the following water conservation measures shall apply
except when reclaimed water is used:
         (a)   Lawn watering and landscape irrigation, including with a hand-
held hose equipped with a positive shut-off nozzle, is permitted only during
designated hours on designated days, regardless of the months of the year.
Watering is permitted at any hour, on any day, if a hand-held container or drip
irrigation system is used.
         (b)   Commercial nurseries shall reduce water by an amount to be
determined by the Town of Hammonton Water Department Editor's Note: The Water
Department was inactivated 1-24-2011 by Ord. No. 3-2011. See now
Ch. 53, Department of Public Utilities; Superintendent of Public Works.
Superintendent.
         (c)   The washing of automobiles, truth, trailers, boats, airplanes
and other types of mobile equipment is permitted only during designated hours
on designated days with a hand-held bucket or a hand-held hose equipped with a
positive shut-off nozzle for quick rinses. Washing is permitted at any time on
the immediate premises of a commercial car wash. The use of water by all types
of commercial car washes not using partially reclaimed or recycled water shall
be reduced in volume by an amount determined by the Town of Hammonton Water
Department. Further, such washings are exempt from these regulations where the
health, safety and welfare of the public is contingent upon frequent vehicle
cleanings, such as garbage trucks and vehicles to transport food and
perishables.
         (d)   The overfilling of swimming pools and spas is prohibited. The
filling or refilling of ponds and artificial lakes is prohibited.
         (e)   Watering golf courses, parks, school grounds and recreation
fields is permitted only during designated hours on designated days, except
golf course greens.
         (f)   Use of water from fire hydrants shall be limited to firefighting
or other activities immediately necessary to maintaining the heath, safety and
welfare of the citizens of Hammonton.
         (g)   All restaurants are prohibited from serving water to their
customers except when specifically requested by the customers.
         (h)   Water shall not be used to wash down sidewalks, driveways,
parking areas, tennis courts, patios or other paved areas, except to alleviate
immediate fire or sanitation hazards.
         (i)   The operation of any ornamental fountain or similar structure is
prohibited except for short periods of time to prevent damage.
      (3)   Stage 3: water emergency mandatory compliance. Stage 3 applies when
a major failure of any supply or distribution facility, whether temporary or
permanent, occurs in the water distribution system of the Town of Hammonton
water and sewer facilities. Upon declaration of Town of Hammonton and
publication of notice, the following measures shall apply except when reclaimed
water is used:
         (a)   All outdoor irrigation of turf and ground covers is prohibited
with the exception of plant materials classified to be rare, exceptionally
valuable or essential to the well-being of the public at large or rare animals.
Irrigation of trees and shrubs is permitted only by hand-held hose equipped
with a positive shut-off nozzle, hand-held container, or drip irrigation
system. Greywater may be used in accordance with appropriate regulatory agency
guidelines and regulations to irrigate fruit trees, ground covers and
ornamental trees and shrubs. Greywater is defined as household wastewater other
than toilet waste.
         (b)   The use of water at commercial nurseries, commercial sod farmers
and similarly situated establishments shall be reduced in volume by an amount
determined by the Town of Hammonton Water Department. Editor's Note: The Water
Department was inactivated 1-24-2011 by Ord. No. 3-2011. See now
Ch. 53, Department of Public Utilities; Superintendent of Public Works.
Greywater may be used in accordance with the appropriate regulatory agencies to
irrigate fruit trees, ground covers and ornamental trees and shrubs.
         (c)   The washing of automobiles, trucks, trailers, boats, airplanes
and other types of mobile equipment is prohibited. The use of water by all
types of commercial car washes or commercial vehicle service stations and not
in the immediate interest of the public health, safety and welfare shall be
reduced in volume by an amount determined by the Town of Hammonton Water
Department. Further, such washings are exempt from these regulations where the
health, safety and welfare of the public is contingent upon frequent vehicle
cleanings such as garbage trucks and vehicles used to transport food and
perishables.
         (d)   The filling, refilling or adding of water to swimming pools,
spas, ponds and artificial lakes is prohibited.
         (e)   The watering of all golf course areas, except greens, is
prohibited.
         (f)   Use of water from fire hydrants shall be limited to fire
fighting or other activities immediately necessary to maintain the health,
safety and welfare of the citizens of Hammonton.
         (g)   All restaurants are prohibited from serving water to their
customers except when specifically requested by the customers.
         (h)   Water shall not be used to wash down sidewalks, driveways,
parking areas, tennis courts, patios or other paved areas, except to alleviate
immediate fire or sanitation hazards.
         (i)   The operation of any ornamental fountain or similar structure is
prohibited except for short periods of time to prevent damage.
         (j)   The use of water for commercial, manufacturing or processing
purposes shall be reduced in volume by an amount determined by the Town of
Hammonton Water Department.
         (k)   All sales of non-reclaimed water outside of the Towns limits
shall be discontinued, with the exception of sales previously approved by the
Town of Hammonton.
         (l)   No new construction meters will be issued. Construction water
shall not be used for earth work or road construction purposes. Construction
projects necessary to maintaining the health, safety and welfare of the public
are exempt from these regulations.
         (m)   Except as to property for which a building permit has been
heretofore issued, no new building permit(s) shall be provided, except in the
following circumstances:
            [1]For projects necessary to protect the public's health, safety,
and welfare;
            [2]When using reclaimed water;
            [3]When the recipient of the building permit can demonstrate that
no net increase in water use will occur.
      (4)   In the case of any emergency declaration as is described herein,
the terms of the curtailment may be modified by amendment from time to time
based on any change in emergent conditions.
§ 275-34. Notice of declaration.
   Immediately following the passage of any of the water supply conservation
declarations hereinbefore described, a copy of the declaration shall be
published in one or more of the Town's official newspapers and posted in the
municipal building, police headquarters, construction office and the office of
the Town of Hammonton Water and Sewer Department. Editor's Note: The Water and
Sewer Departments were inactivated 1-24-2011 by Ord. No. 3-2011. See now
Ch. 53, Department of Public Utilities; Superintendent of Public Works.
§ 275-35. Effect of declaration.
   The Declaration of a state of water supply conservation shall be conclusive
of the fact of the existence of such stage of water supply conservation and
shall be binding upon all persons and users upon the filing of the same in the
office of the Town Clerk and the publication thereof in one or more of official
Town newspapers.
§ 275-36. Termination of declaration.
   The declaration shall continue in full force and effect except as amended,
until terminated by a resolution of termination adopted by the Council of the
Town of Hammonton.
§ 275-37. Inspections.
   All premises receiving water from the Town of Hammonton water and sewer
system shall be subject to inspection between sunrise and sunset by the Town of
Hammonton's employees or any other person duly authorized and appointed by the
Town or Authority to perform inspections to oversee compliance during each
stage of water supply conservation. It shall be a violation of this article for
any person to hinder, obstruct, delay, resist or prevent any such inspection as
is described herein.
§ 275-38. Prohibited use of water.
   It shall be a violation of this article for any person to use water from the
Town of Hammonton's water system at any time in a manner prohibited by any
declaration issued pursuant to this article.
§ 275-39. Continued prohibited use of water; notice of violation; abatement by
Town.
   A.   In the event that there is on any premises a continuing usage of water
from the Town of Hammonton water system by any person in a manner prohibited by
any declaration issued pursuant to this article, such continuing usage is
hereby declared to be a violation of this article and the Authority Rules and
Regulations.
   B.   The owner, occupant and/or operator of the premises whereon the
violation is occurring shall be served with written notice of the violation by
the delivery to any such owner, occupant and/or operator or the agent or
employee of any of same actually on the premises. If no such person is present
the notice shall be posted on the premises.
   C.   If, after the passage of one hour from the delivery or posting of such
notice, the violation has not been abated, any employee of the Town of
Hammonton is hereby authorized to enter upon the premises to abate the
violation and discontinue water service. Thereafter, the Town or the Water and
Sewer Department, Editor's Note: The Water and Sewer Departments were
inactivated 1-24-2011 by Ord. No. 3-2011. See now
Ch. 53, Department of Public Utilities; Superintendent of Public Works. as the
case may be, shall assess the costs of such abatement against the owner,
operator and/or occupant of the premises.
§ 275-40. Violations and penalties.
   A.   Any person found guilty of violating any portion of this article shall
be subject to a fine according to the following schedule:
      (1)   First offense: written warning;
      (2)   Second offense: Fine of $50.
      (3)   Third offense: Fine of $100 to $300; and
      (4)   Fourth or multiple offense: A fine not to exceed $500 and up to 30
days' community service.
   B.   Any person found guilty of violating §
275-39 shall be subject to a fine of $500 for each twenty-four-hour period or
part thereof for which it can be proven that the violation occurred.
   C.   Any violation occurring within 24 hours of any declaration issued
pursuant to this article shall result in a warning and shall not be considered
an offense.
§ 275-41. Water conservation tax credit/rebate program.
[Added 12-16-2013 by Ord. No. 29-2013]
   The town hereby creates and adopts a "Town of Hammonton Water Conservation
Tax Credit/Rebate Program". The town will provide a tax credit to customers
using the public water supply system and a rebate to all other residential
water consumers based on the installation and use of a variety of water-
conserving technologies and appliances. The tax credit/rebate will be applied
under the following conditions:
   A.   The resident must submit a complete "Application for Water Tax Credit/
Rebate" (to be developed by the town's Business Administrator and which shall
include a Certification as to the accuracy of the representations contained
therein), including receipt(s) documenting the purchase and installation of the
device or appliance.
   B.   The town may, at its own prerogative or as otherwise required by law or
regulation, conduct an inspection of the residence to verify proper
installation of the device(s).
   C.   Tax credits/rebates are available only for those technologies, devices,
and appliances that carry the US EPA "Energy Star" or "Water Sense" labels, or
are approved and endorsed as a bona-fide water-saving technology by the NJ
Department of Environmental Protection through the Energy and Environmental
Technology Verification Program or its successor.
   D.   Residents may propose additional technologies, devices, or appliances
that have a proven track record of saving water and the town will investigate
the possible addition of these to the approved list. No guarantee is offered
that a submitted device not already on the list will be approved for a tax
credit/rebate.
   E.   No credits/rebates or combination of credits/rebates may surpass $100
per year.
   F.   The tax credit/rebate amount will be applied, in the case of a
municipal water user, to the next billing cycle and, in the case of a non-
municipal water system user, in the form of a rebate via mail as soon as
possible following approval of their application and the availability of funds.
If there are insufficient funds to provide credits/rebates in a billing cycle,
the credit/rebate will be addressed in the next billing cycle.
   G.   In the event a user is approved for multiple devices, the cumulative
effect of more than one device will be calculated and an appropriate tax
credit/rebate will be applied.
   H.   Credits/Rebates will be available as follows:
      1.   $100 or 50 percent off the purchase of a permanent, mechanical pool
cover, whichever is less,
      2.   $50 for each Water Sense certified toilet,
      3.   $25 off or half the purchase price of a rain sensor, whichever is
less,
      4.   $100 off the purchase of a water-smart lawn irrigation system,
      5.   $75 for a high efficiency ("HE") clothes washer,
      6.   $50 for an Energy Star dishwasher, and
      7.   $100 or 50 percent of the purchase price of technologies certified
by the NJ DEP under the Energy and Environmental Technology Verification
Program, whichever is less.
      8.   The list of qualifying credits/rebates may be expanded to include
new technologies, appliances, or devices, upon review and approval by Council,
with the new qualifying rebates to become eligible upon the first of the year
following their approval.
   I.   Funding for this program is subject to the annual appropriation of
funds by Town Council. Such appropriation shall only be made following
certification by the Town Business Administrator, or his designee, that such
allocation will have no deleterious effect upon the safe and continuing
operation of the town's water utility system and/or the town's general fund.
DISPOSITION LIST
§ DL-1. Disposition of legislation.
The following is a chronological listing of the ordinances of the Town of
Hammonton that have been adopted since the republication of the Code in 2000
and included therein. [Enabling ordinances which are not general and permanent
in nature are considered to be non-Code material and are not included herein.]
Information regarding legislation which is not included in the Code nor on this
list is available from the office of the Town Clerk/Administrator. The last
legislation reviewed for the republication of the Code was Ord. No. 35-2000,
adopted 9-25-2000. A complete listing, including disposition, of all
legislation reviewed in conjunction with the original publication of the Code
is on file in the office of the Town Cleric Administrator.
Ord. No. Adoption Date Subject Disposition
Ord. No.  Adoption Date Subject                     Disposition
36-2000   9-25-2000     Land development amendment  Ch. 175
                        Tobacco products: vending
41-2000   12-18-2000    machines and self-service   Ch. 259, Art. I
                        displays
42-2000   12-18-2000    Land development amendment  Ch. 175
1-2001    2-26-2001     Land development amendment  Ch. 175
2-2001    2-26-2001     Vehicles and traffic        Ch. 271
                        amendment
11-2001   3-26-2001     Property maintenance        Ch. 211
                        amendment
13-2001   3-26-2001     Land development amendment  Ch. 175
14-2001   3-15-2001     Land development amendment  Ch. 175
15-2001   4-23-2001     Fire prevention amendment   Ch. 144
16-2001   4-23-2001     Solid waste: convenience    Ch. 241, Art. I
                        station
23-2001   5-21-2001     Sewer use and rents         Ch. 226, Art. I
                        amendment
24-2001   5-21-2001     False alarms                Ch. 74, Art. I
25-2001   7-23-2001     Rent control amendment      Ch. 217
26-2001   7-23-2001     Adoption of Code by Mayor   Ch. 1, Art. I
                        and Common Council
27-2001   9-24-2001     Zoning Map amendment        NCM
29-2001   9-24-2001     Police Department amendment Ch. 51, Art. I
31-2001   10-22-2001    Deputy Clerk amendment      Ch. 35, Art. X
32-2001   10-22-2001    Municipal Airpott amendment Ch. 72
34-2001   11-19-2001    Vehicles and traffic        Ch. 271
                        amendment
1-2002    2-25-2002     Vehicles and traffic        Ch. 271
                        amendment
2-2002    2-25-2002     On-street handicapped       Ch. 271
                        parking spaces
3-2002    2-25-2002     Vehicles and traffic        Ch. 271
                        amendment
4-2002    2-25-2002     Police Department amendment Ch. 51, Ait. I
5-2002    2-25-2002     Employee health benefits    Ch. 48, Art. Ill
                        amendment
7-2002    3-25-2002     Vehicles and traffic        Ch. 271
                        amendment
8-2002    3-25-2002     Mandatory water connection  Ch. 275, Art. 1
9-2002    3-25-2002     Fire prevention             Ch. 144
12-2002   3-25-2002     Land development amendment  Ch. 175
13-2002   3-25-2002     Sewer connections amendment Ch. 226
14-2002   4-22-2002     Towing amendment            Ch. 261
15-2002   4-22-2002     Vehicles and traffic        Ch. 271.
                        amendment
17-2002   4-22-2002     Zoning Map amendment        NCM
18-2002   4-22-2002     Airport amendment           Ch. 72
20-2002                Land development amendment  Tabled
28-2002   6-17-2002     Land development amendment  Ch. 175
29-2002   6-17-2002     Vehicles and traffic        Ch. 271
                        amendment
30-2002   6-17-2002     Land development amendment  Ch. 175
32-2002   8-26-2002     Land development amendment  Ch. 175
34-2002   8-26-2002     Land development amendment  Ch. 175
38-2002   10-28-2002    Hazardous materials cleanup Ch". 162
                        and removal
40-2002   11-18-2002    Land development amendment  Ch. 175
41-2002   11-18-2002    Vehicles and traffic        Ch. 271
                        amendment
42-2002   11-18-2002    Vehicles and traffic        Ch. 271
                        amendment
2-2003    1-27-2003     Licensing of businesses     Repealed by Ord. 1-2004
7-2003    5-27-2003     Land development amendment  Ch. 175
8-2003    5-27-2003     Vehicles and traffic        Ch. 271
                        amendment
11-2003   6-23-2003     Land development amendment  Ch. 175
12-2003   6-23-2003     Control of dogs             Ch. 82, Art. IV
14-2003   7-28-2003     Vehicles and traffic        Ch. 271
                        amendment
15-2003   7-28-2003     Vehicles and traffic        Ch, 271
                        amendment
17-2003                Land development amendment  Tabled
18-2003                Compression release engine  Tabled
                        brakes
23-2003   10-27-2003    Zoning Map amendment        NCM
24-2003   10-27-2003    Land development amendment  Ch. 175
                        Protective custody for
25-2003                persons arrested for drunk  Tabled
                        driving
27-2003   11-17-2003    Employee Handbook           Ch. 48, Art. VI
29-2003                Hotel and motel room        Not adopted
                        occupancy tax
31-2003   12-15-2003    Vehicles and traffic        Ch. 271
                        amendment
1-2004    2-23-2004     Business registration       Ch. 109
4-2004    3-22-2004     Board of Park Commissioners Ch. 6, Art. II
                        amendment
5-2004    3-22-2004     Redevelopment plan          Ch. 213
12-2004   5-24-2004     Shade Tree Commission       Ch. 6, Art. I
                        amendment
13-2004   6-28-2004     Handicapped parking zones   Ch. 197, Art. III
                        amendment
16-2004   7-26-2004     Fees: vital statistics      Ch. 134, Art. II
                        records
17-2004   7-26-2004     Motor-driven vehicles       Ch. 273
18-2004   7-26-2004     Land development amendment  Ch. 175
21-2004   8-23-2004     Land development amendment  Ch. 175
                        Land development amendment
22-2004   8-23-2004     (wireless                   Ch. 175
                        telecommunications
                        facilities)
24-2004   10-25-2004    Licensing of dogs amendment Ch. 82, Art. I
                        Peddlers, hawkers, vendors,
25-2004   10-25-2004    solicitors, canvassers and  Ch. 204, Art. III
                        seasonal sales vendors
27-2004   11-15-2004    Land development amendment  Ch. 175
28-2004   11-15-2004    Land development amendment  Ch. 175
29-2004   11-15-2004    Employee handbook adopted   See Ch. 19
30-2004   12-20-2004    Municipal Court discovery   Ch. 14, Art. V
                        fees
1-2005    2-28-2005     Vehicles and traffic        Ch. 271
                        amendment
3-2005    2-28-2005     Vehicles and traffic        Ch. 271
                        amendment
4-2005    3-21-2005     Solid waste amendment       Ch. 241
8-2005    5-23-2005     Special Law Enforcement     Ch. 51, Art. VI
                        Officers
19-2005                Special event vendors       Tabled
27-2005   7-25-2005     Vehicles and traffic        Ch. 271
                        amendment
28-2005   7-25-2005     Jake brakes                 Repealed by Ord. No. 44-
                                                    2005
29-2005   7-25-2005     Sewer use and rents         Ch. 226, Art. I
                        amendment
30-2005   7-25-2005     Special event vendor's      Ch. 204, Art. IV
                        license
31-2005   7-25-2005     Land development amendment  Ch. 175
36-2005   9-26-2005     Vehicles and traffic        Ch. 271
                        amendment
37-2005   9-26-2005     Sex offender residency      Repealed by Ord. No. 13-
                                                    2009
41-2005                Compression release engine  Tabled
                        brakes amendment
42-2005   11-21-2005    Employee Handbook amendment See Ch. 19
44-2005   12-19-2005    Compression release engine  Ch. 190, Art. I
                        brakes repealer
2-2006    2-13-2006     Alcoholic beverages         Ch. 75
                        amendment
3-2006    3-27-2006     Historic Preservation       Ch. 6, Art. V
                        Commission amendment
5-2006    4-24-2006     Water and Sewer             Ch. 6, Art. VI
                        Subcommittee
9-2006    6-26-2006     Business registration       Ch. 109
                        amendment
10-2006   6-26-2006     Junkyards amendment         Ch. 172
11-2006   6-26-2006     Launderettes amendment      Ch. 180
12-2006   6-26-2006     Licensing of dogs amendment Ch. 82, Art. I
15-2006                Sale of land                Tabled
                        Land development amendment; Chs. 175; 195, reference
16-2006   8-28-2006     open space and recreation   only
                        repealer
19-2006   9-25-2006     Rental property             Repealed by Ord. No. 4-2007
21-2006   12-18-2006    Election districts          Ch. 16
                        amendment
4-2007    4-4-2007      Rental property repealer    Repealer only
5-2007    4-4-2007      Rental property             Ch. 216
                        Personnel policies:
6-2007    4-23-2007     holidays, sick leave and    Ch. 48, Art. I
                        vacations amendment
8-2007    4-23-2007     Fees: vital statistics      Ch. 134, Art. II
                        records amendment
9-2007    5-21-2007     Vehicles and traffic        Ch. 271
                        amendment
10-2007   5-21-2007     Vehicles and traffic        Ch. 271
                        amendment
12-2007   5-21-2007     Hammonton Lake Water        Repealed by Ord. No. 002-
                        Quality Advisory Committee  2024
13-2007   5-21-2007     Land development amendment  Ch. 175
14-2007   5-21-2007     Land development amendment  Repealed by Ord. No. 14-
                        (stormwater management)     2023
19-2007   6-25-2007     Vehicles and traffic        Ch. 271
                        amendment
20-2007   6-25-2007     Boats on Hammonton Lake     Ch. 99
                        amendment
26-2007   8-27-2007     Police Department rules and Ch. 51, Art. I, footnote
                        regulations                 only
30-2007   9-24-2007     Purchasing amendment        Ch. 55
32-2007   10-22-2007    Vehicles and traffic        Ch. 271
                        amendment
33-2007   12-17-2007    Employee handbook amendment See Ch. 19
34-2007   12-17-2007    Environmental Commission    Ch. 6, Art. III
                        amendment
                        Hammonton Lake Water        Repealed by Ord. No. 002-
35-2007   12-17-2007    Quality Advisory Committee  2024
                        amendment
                        Personnel policies: review
36-2007   12-17-2007    process for Town employees  Ch. 48, Art. IV
                        amendment
1-2008    1-21-2008     Vehicles and traffic        Ch. 271
                        amendment
2-2008    1-21-2008     Solid waste: trash          Ch. 241, Art. II
                        collection amendment
4-2008    2-25-2008     Property maintenance        Ch. 221
                        amendment
5-2008    3-17-2008     Fire Department: cost       Ch. 25, Art. IV
                        reimbursement
8-2008    3-17-2008     Board of Park Commissioners Ch. 6, Art. II
                        amendment
                        Personnel policies:
9-2008    4-28-2008     holidays, sick leave and    Ch. 48, Art. I
                        vacations amendment
                        Personnel policies: health
10-2008   4-28-2008     benefits for full-time      Ch. 48, Art. III
                        employees amendment
11-2008   4-28-2008     Shade Tree Commission       Ch. 6, Art. I, footnote
                        repealer                    only
12-2008   4-28-2008     False alarms amendment      Ch. 74, Art. I
13-2008   4-28-2008     Solid waste amendment       Withdrawn
14-2008   4-28-2008     Rent control amendment      Ch. 217
15-2008   4-28-2008     Rent Control Board          Ch. 6, Art. IV
                        amendment
18-2008   5-19-2008     Vehicles and traffic        Ch. 271
                        amendment
23-2008   7-28-2008     Purchasing amendment        Ch. 55
                        Personnel policies: Defined
24-2008   8-25-2008     Contribution Retirement     Ch. 48, Art. VI
                        Program
25-2008   7-28-2008     Vehicles and traffic        Ch. 271
                        amendment
29-2008   9-22-2008     Drug-free school zones      Ch. 125, Art. I
                        amendment
32-2008   10-27-2008    Vehicles and traffic        Ch. 271
                        amendment
33-2008   11-24-2008    Officers and employees:     Ch. 35, Art. X
                        Deputy Clerk amendment
34-2008   11-24-2008    Employee handbook amendment See Ch. 119
35-2008   11-24-2008    Officers and employees:     Ch. 35, Art. XI
                        Municipal Housing Liaison
36-2008   11-24-2008    Alarm systems: false alarms Ch. 74 Art. I
                        amendment
                        Fences and barriers:
37-2008   11-24-2008    construction and            Ch. 137 Art. I
                        maintenance amendment
                        Water connections within
38-2008   11-24-2008    groundwater impact area     Ch. 275 Art. III
                        amendment
                        Personnel policies: Defined
4-2009  3-23-2009     Contribution Retirement     Ch. 48 Art. VI
                        Program amendment
6A-2009   4-27-2009     Games of chance: issuance   Ch. 157 Art. III
                        of licenses
8-2009               Peace and good order        Tabled
                        amendment
10-2009                Vehicles and traffic        Tabled
                        amendment
                        Peddlers, solicitors and
12-2009   5-26-2009     transient merchants:        Ch. 204 Art. IV
                        special event vendor
                        license amendment
13-2009   6-22-2009     Sex offender residency      Ch. 228, reference only
                        repealer
14-2009   7-27-2009     Peace and good order        Ch. 202
                        amendment
15-2009   9-28-2009     Land development amendment  Ch. 175
16-2009   8-24-2009     Water conservation          Ch. 275 Art. IV
17-2009   8-24-2009     Land development amendment  Ch. 175
18-2009   8-24-2009     Towing amendment            Ch. 261
19-2009   8-24-2009     Parks and recreation areas  Ch. 200
                        amendment
20-2009   10-26-2009    Vehicles and traffic        Ch. 271
                        amendment
21-2009   10-26-2009    Alcoholic beverages         Ch. 75
                        amendment
23-2009   10-26-2009    Employee handbook amendment See Ch. 19
29-2009   12-21-2009    Rental property amendment   Ch. 216
30-2009   12-21-2009    False alarms amendment      Ch. 74 Art. 1
1-2010  1-25-2010     Purchasing amendment        Ch. 55
2-2010    2-22-2010     Employee handbook amendment Pending codification
3-2010    3-22-2010     Land development mendment   Ch. 175
5-2010    3-22-2010     Vehicles and traffic        Ch. 271
                        amendment
6-2010    4-26-2010     Trash collection amendment  Ch. 241, Art. II
9-2010    6-28-2010     Land development amendment  Repealed by Ord. No. 20-
                                                    2010
10-2010   6-28-2010     Construction of curbs and   Repealed by Ord. No. 19-
                        sidewalks amendment         2010
11-2010   6-28-2010     Utility restoration         Ch. 269
                        monitoring
12-2010   6-28-2010     Fire Department: cost       Disposition Ch. 25, Art. IV
                        reimbursement amendment
                        Personnel policies: Defined
14-2010   6-28-2010     Contribution Retirement     Ch. 48, Art. VI
                        Program
16-2010   8-23-2010     Environmental Commission    Ch. 6, Art. III; Ch. 267
                        amendment; trees
                        Peddlers, hawkers, vendors,
18-2010   9-13-2010     solicitors, canvassers and   Ch. 204, Art. III
                        seasonal sales vendors
19-2010   9-13-2010     Construction of curbs and   Repealer only
                        sidewalks repealer
20-2010   9-13-2010     Land development repealer   Repealer only
21-2010   9-27-2010     Land development amendment  Ch. 175
                        Construction of curbs and
22-2010   9-27-2010     sidewalks required          Ch. 247, Art. IV
                        amendment
                        Personnel policies: review
1-2011    1-24-2011     process for Town employees  Ch. 48, Art. IV
                        amendment
2-2011    1-24-2011     Purchasing amendment        Ch. 55
                        Public Utilities
3-2011    1-24-2011     Department; Public Works    Ch. 53
                        Superintendent
                        Land development amendment
4-2011    3-28-2011     (wind and solar energy      Ch. 175
                        systems)
5-2011    4-18-2011     Property maintenance        Ch. 211
                        amendment
6-2011    4-18-2011     Land development amendment  Ch. 175
7-2011    4-18-2011     Rental property amendment   Ch. 216
8-2011    4-18-2011     Fees: vital statistics      Ch. 134, Art. II
                        records amendment
10-2011   4-18-2011     Licensing of dogs amendment Ch. 82, Art. I
15-2011   7-25-2011     Vehicles and traffic        Ch. 271
                        amendment
16-2011   7-25-2011     Junior firefighters program Ch. 25, Art. III
                        amendment
18-2011   10-24-2011    Streets and sidewalks       Ch. 247
                        amendment
19-2011   10-24-2011    Prohibited acts amendment   Ch. 202
23-2011   11-28-2011    Land development amendment  Ch. 175
24-2011   11-28-2011    Redevelopment plan          Ch. 213
                        amendment
25-2011   12-19-2011    Personnel policies          Ch. 48
                        amendment
2-2012    3-26-2012     Personnel policies repealer Repealer only
4B-2012   3-26-2012     Clerk/Municipal             Ch. 35, Art. IV
                        Administrator
4C-2012   3-26-2012     Public Works Manager        Ch. 54
5-2012    4-16-2012     Police department amendment Ch. 51, Art. I
                        Personnel policies:
6-2012    4-16-2012     resignation/ retirement     Ch. 48
                        paperwork
7-2012    4-16-2012     Vehicles and traffic        Ch. 271
                        amendment
8-2012    5-14-2012     Sewer rates                 Ch. 226
10-2012   5-14-2012     Water rates                 Ch. 275
12-2012   5-14-2012     Election districts          Ch. 16
14-2012   6-25-2012     Review process for Town     Ch. 48
                        employees
15-2012   6-25-2012     Vehicles and traffic        Ch. 271
                        amendment
020-2012  7-23-2012     Vehicles and traffic        Ch. 271
                        amendment
022-2012  8-27-2012     Towing amendment            Ch. 261
025-2012  11-26-2012    Taxicabs                    Ch. 257
027-2012  12-17-2012    Vehicles and traffic        Ch. 271
                        amendment
002-2013  3-18-2013     Vehicles and traffic        Ch. 271
                        amendment
004-2013  3-18-2013     Discovery fees              Ch. 14
005-2013  4-22-2013     Land development amendment  Ch. 175
007-2013  5-28-2013     Property maintenance code   Ch. 211
008-2013  5-28-2013     Property maintenance code   Ch. 211
011-2013  7-22-2013     Land development amendment  Ch. 175
012-2013  6-24-2013     Vehicles and traffic        Ch. 271
                        amendment
013-2013  7-22-2013     Parks and recreation        Ch. 41
                        amendment
015-2013  8-26-2013     Dealers of precious metals, Ch. 122
                        gems and secondhand goods
020-2013  9-23-2013     Control of invasive plant   Ch. 170
                        species
023-2013  10-28-2013    Vehicles and traffic        Ch. 271
                        amendment
024-2013  10-28-2013    Licensing of dogs amendment Ch. 82
027-2013  11-18-2013    Parks and recreation areas  Ch. 200
                        amendment
029-2013  12-16-2013    Water conservation          Ch. 275
                        amendment
030-2013  12-16-2013    Water repealer              Repealer only
001-2014  1-27-2014     Vehicles and traffic        Ch. 271
                        amendment
                        Peddlers, solicitors, and
003-2014  2-24-2014     transient merchants         Ch. 204
                        amendment
008-2014  4-14-2014     Vehicles and traffic        Ch. 271
                        amendment
017-2014  8-25-2014     Parks and recreation areas  Ch. 200
                        amendment
018-2014  8-25-2014     Streets and sidewalks       Ch. 247
                        amendment
036-2014  12-15-2014    Prohibition of use of       Ch. 233
                        tobacco amendment
001-2015  1-26-2015     Police department amendment Ch. 51, Art. I
002-2015  2-23-2015     Public utilities department Ch. 53
                        amendment
006-2015  3-23-2015     Sewer and water rates       Ch. 226, 275
                        amendments
007-2015  4-20-2015     Solid waste: construction   Ch. 241, Art. V
                        dumpsters
008-2015  5-18-2015     Streets and sidewalks       Ch. 247
                        amendment
011-2015  8-24-2015     Vehicles and traffic        Ch. 271
                        amendment
015-2015  9-28-2015     Animals amendment           Ch. 82
016-2015  9-28-2015     Public assemblies amendment Ch. 85
017-2015  10-26-2015    Personnel policies          Ch. 48
                        amendment
019-2015  9-28-2015     Property maintenance        Ch. 211
                        amendment
25-2015   12-14-2015    Taxation amendment          Ch. 254
003-2016  2-22-2016     Land development amendment  Ch. 175
006-2016  4-18-2016     Property maintenance        Ch. 211
                        amendment
008-2016  5-16-2016     Sewers amendment            Ch. 226
009-2016  5-16-2016     Water amendment             Ch. 275
010-2016  5-16-2016     Streets and sidewalks       Ch. 247
                        amendment
012-2016  12-19-2016    Land development amendment  Ch. 175
013-2016  7-25-2016     Solid waste amendment       Ch. 241
014-2016  7-25-2016     Sewers amendment            Ch. 226
018-2016  9-26-2016     Vehicles and traffic        Ch. 273
                        amendment
021-2016  11-21-2016    Parking amendment           Ch. 271
                        Peddlers, solicitors, and
001-2017  1-23-2017     transient merchants         Ch. 204
                        amendment
005-2017  3-20-2017     Alarm systems amendment     Ch. 74
008-2017  3-20-2017     Dog parks                   Ch. 82, Art. V
009-2017  3-20-2017     Taxation amendment          Ch. 254
010-2017  6-19-2017     Land development amendment  Ch. 175
012-2017  5-15-2017     Streets and sidewalks       Ch. 247
                        amendment
016-2017  7-24-2017     Vehicles and traffic        Ch. 271
                        amendment
021-2017  10-23-2017    Vehicles and traffic        Ch. 271
                        amendment
024-2017  12-11-2017    Vehicles and traffic        Ch. 271
                        amendment
001-2018  1-22-2018     Land development amendment  Ch. 175
005-2018  2-26-2018     Fire prevention             Ch. 144
006-2018  2-26-2018     Vehicles and traffic        Ch. 271
                        amendment
                        Peddlers, solicitors, and
007-2018  2-26-2018     transient merchants         Ch. 204
                        amendment
010-2018  3-26-2018     Parks and recreation areas  Ch. 200
                        amendment
011-2018  3-26-2018     Hammonton Lake Water        Repealed by Ord. No. 002-
                        Quality Advisory Committee  2024
012-2018  3-26-2018     Streets and sidewalks       Ch. 247
                        amendment
013-2018  4-23-2018     Fire prevention             Ch. 144
024-2018  6-25-2018     Vehicles and traffic        Ch. 271
                        amendment
029-2018  8-27-2018     Flood hazard areas          Ch. 147
                        amendment
030-2018  8-27-2018     Vehicles and traffic        Ch. 271
                        amendment
031-2018  8-27-2018     Land development            Ch. 175
                        amendment   
038-2018  9-24-2018     Vehicles and traffic        Ch. 271
                        amendment
039-2018  9-24-2018     Sick leave amendment        Ch. 48
040-2018  9-24-2018     Flood hazard areas          Ch. 147
                        amendment
042-2018  11-19-2018    Land development amendment  Ch. 175
045-2018  11-19-2018    Land development amendment  Ch. 175
002-2019  1-28-2019     Police department amendment Ch. 51
009-2019  5-20-2019     Vehicles and traffic        Ch. 271
                        amendment
                        Public Works Manager/
010-2019  5-20-2019     Business Administrator      Ch. 54
                        amendment
012-2019  7-22-2019     Fire department amendment   Ch. 25
013-2019  5-20-2019     Land development amendment  Ch. 175
014-2019  6-17-2019     Land development amendment  Ch. 175
020-2019  8-26-2019     Vehicles and traffic        Ch. 271
                        amendment
024-2019  9-23-2019     Vehicles and traffic        Ch. 271
                        amendment
026-2019  10-28-2019    Vehicles and traffic        Ch. 271
                        amendment
027-2019  10-28-2019    Vehicles and traffic        Ch. 271
                        amendment
028-2019  12-16-2019    Littering amendment         Ch. 184
029-2019  11-18-2019    Vehicles and traffic        Ch. 271
                        amendment
030-2019  12-16-2019    Noise amendment             Ch. 190
031-2019  12-16-2019    Rental property amendment   Ch. 216
001-2020  1-27-2020     Land development            Ch. 175
                        amendment   
002-2020  1-27-2020     Municipal court             Ch. 14
007-2020  8-24-2020     Vehicles and traffic        Ch. 271
                        amendment
010-2020  8-24-2020     Property maintenance        Ch. 211
                        amendment
011-2020  9-28-2020     Municipal court             Ch. 14
015-2020  11-16-2020    Towing amendment            Ch. 261
002-2021  2-22-2021     Noise amendment          Ch. 190
004-2021  5-24-2021     Land development amendment  Ch. 175
005-2021  5-24-2021     Municipal court amendment   Ch. 14
007-2021  6-28-2021     Rental property amendment   Ch. 216
008-2021  7-26-2021     Land development amendment  Ch. 175
009-2021  6-28-2021     Police Department amendment Ch. 51
013-2021  8-23-2021     Municipal court             Ch. 14
014-201   9-27-2021     Property maintenance        Ch. 211
                        amendment
015-2021  10-25-2021    Vehicles and traffic        Ch. 271
                        amendment
016-2021  10-25-2021    Alcoholic beverages         Ch. 75
                        amendment
19-2021   11-15-2021    Municipal court amendment   Ch. 14
001-2022  4-25-2022     Health benefits amendment   Ch. 48
005-2022  2-28-2022     Police Department amendment Ch. 51
007-2022  3-28-2022     Flood hazard areas          Ch. 147
                        amendment
                        Peddlers, solicitors, and
012-2022  6-20-2022     transient merchants         Ch. 204
                        amendment
017-2022  8-8-2022      Property maintenance        Ch. 211
                        amendment
009-2023  5-22-2023     Municipal court amendment   Ch. 14
10-2023   5-22-2023     Fire Department amendment   Ch. 25
013-2023  9-11-2023     Peace and good order        Ch. 202
                        amendment
14-2023   8-28-2023     Land development amendment  Ch. 175
015-2023  8-28-2023     Amusements amendment        Ch. 79
025-2023  12-18-2023    Land development amendment  Ch. 175
026-2023  12-18-2023    Land development amendment  Ch. 175
001-2024  1-22-2024     Redevelopment plan          Ch. 213
                        amendment
002-2024  1-26-2024     Hammonton Lake Water        Repealer only
                        Quality Advisory Committee
003-2024  2-24-2024     Board of Park Commissioners Ch. 6, Art. II
                        amendment
004-2024  2-26-2024     Land development amendment  Ch. 175
013-2024  6-24-2024     International Property      Ch. 211
                        Maintenance Code adopted
020-2024  10-28-2024    Police Department amendment Ch. 51
021-2024  10-28-2024    Land development amendment  Ch. 175
                                                  
 
 
Land Use Legislation
of the
Town of Hammonton
COUNTY OF ATLANTIC
STATE OF NEW JERSEY
 
Current through
Ordinance 026-2023, passed 12-18-2023
Chapter 175
LAND DEVELOPMENT
ARTICLE I
General Provisions
   
§ 175-1.   Purpose.
   
§ 175-2.   Conformance required.
   
§ 175-3.   Interpretation.
   
§ 175-4.   Authority to be exclusive.
   
§ 175-5.   Effect on powers of governing body.
   
§ 175-6.   Citizens' Advisory Committee.
   
§ 175-7.   Zoning Officer.
   
§ 175-8.   Compensation of board members.
ARTICLE II
Definitions
   
§ 175-9.   Word usage.
   
§ 175-10.   Terms defined.
ARTICLE III
Master Plan; Capital Improvement Program
   
§ 175-11.   Master Plan.
   
§ 175-12.   Capital improvement program.
ARTICLE IV
Planning Board; Preservation Board
   
§ 175-13.   Establishment; membership.
   
§ 175-14.   Terms of members; vacancies; removal.
   
§ 175-15.   Voting by absent members.
   
§ 175-16.   Alternate members.
   
§ 175-17.   Officers; other staff and services.
   
§ 175-18.   Rules and regulations.
   
§ 175-19.   Powers and duties.
   
§ 175-20.   Time limit for decisions.
   
§ 175-21.   Certificate of appropriateness.
ARTICLE V
Zoning Board of Adjustment
   
§ 175-22.   Establishment.
   
§ 175-23.   (Reserved)
   
§ 175-24.   Voting by absent members.
   
§ 175-25.   (Reserved)
   
§ 175-26.   Officers; other staff and services.
   
§ 175-27.   Rules and regulations.
   
§ 175-28.   General powers and duties.
   
§ 175-29.   Additional powers.
   
§ 175-30.   Appeals and applications.
   
§ 175-31.   Time limit for decisions.
ARTICLE VI
Provisions Applicable to Both Planning Board and Zoning Board of Adjustment
   
§ 175-32.   Conflicts of interest.
   
§ 175-33.   Meetings.
   
§ 175-34.   Minutes.
   
§ 175-35.   Twenty-one-day requirement.
   
§ 175-36.   Hearings.
   
§ 175-37.   Notification of Pinelands Commission.
   
§ 175-38.   Public notice requirements for hearings.
   
§ 175-39.   List of property owners.
   
§ 175-40.   Decisions.
   
§ 175-41.   Publication of decisions.
   
§ 175-42.   Proof of payment of taxes; corporate disclosure.
   
§ 175-43.   Appeal to Town Council.
   
§ 175-44.   Information to be available to Environmental Commission.
   
§ 175-45.   Certificate of subdivision approval.
ARTICLE VII
Fees
   
§ 175-46.   Payment of fees; escrow; agreement.
   
§ 175-47.   Subdivision review fees.
   
§ 175-48.   Categories of site plan fees.
   
§ 175-49.   Site plan review fees.
   
§ 175-50.   Other fees and escrows.
   
§ 175-50.1.   Development fees.
ARTICLE VIII
Development Review and Approval
   
§ 175-51.   Definitions.
   
§ 175-52.   Review requirements; exemptions; waivers; deviations.
   
§ 175-53.   Concept design review.
   
§ 175-54.   Filing of applications with Pinelands Commission.
   
§ 175-55.   Minor subdivision review.
   
§ 175-56.   Review of major subdivisions and planned development.
   
§ 175-57.   Minor site plan review.
   
§ 175-58.   Major site plan review.
   
§ 175-59.   Conditional use review.
   
§ 175-60.   Pinelands Commission review.
   
§ 175-61.   Procedure for application for development of single-family
dwellings.
   
§ 175-62.   Conditional approvals.
   
§ 175-63.   Standards for development review.
ARTICLE IX
Plat Detail and Data
   
§ 175-64.   Plat conformity required.
   
§ 175-65.   Conceptual plan.
   
§ 175-66.   Minor subdivision plat.
   
§ 175-67.   Preliminary major subdivision and planned development plans.
   
§ 175-68.   Final plat for major subdivision and planned development.
   
§ 175-69.   Minor site plan.
   
§ 175-70.   Preliminary major site plan.
   
§ 175-71.   Final major site plan.
ARTICLE X
Guaranties; Inspections; Acceptance of Improvements
   
§ 175-72.   Guaranties for on-tract improvements.
   
§ 175-73.   Guaranties for off-tract improvements.
   
§ 175-74.   Certification or guaranty required; estimate of guaranty.
   
§ 175-75.   Approval by Town Attorney.
   
§ 175-76.   Bonding and cash requirements.
   
§ 175-77.   Inspections and tests.
   
§ 175-78.   Reduction of guaranty.
   
§ 175-79.   Conditions for acceptance of improvements; maintenance guaranty.
   
§ 175-80.   Certificate of occupancy.
ARTICLE XI
Effect of Approvals
   
§ 175-81.   Preliminary approval of major subdivisions and major site plans.
   
§ 175-82.   Final approval of major subdivisions and major site plans.
   
§ 175-83.   Approval of minor subdivisions.
   
§ 175-84.   Approval of minor site plan.
   
§ 175-85.   Suspension of running period of approval.
ARTICLE XII
Design, Performance and Evaluation Standards
   
§ 175-86.   General standards.
   
§ 175-87.   Accessory buildings.
   
§ 175-88.   Agricultural management.
   
§ 175-89.   Air quality.
   
§ 175-90.   Blocks.
   
§ 175-91.   Buffer areas; motor vehicle screening and storage.
   
§ 175-92.   Building design.
   
§ 175-93.   Outdoor furnishings in Downtown Districts.
   
§ 175-94.   Corner lots.
   
§ 175-95.   Curbs.
   
§ 175-96.   Easements.
   
§ 175-97.   Energy conservation.
   
§ 175-98.   Fences and walls.
   
§ 175-99.   Environmental impact statement.
   
§ 175-100.   Fire management.
   
§ 175-101.   Fire hydrants.
   
§ 175-102.   Fish and wildlife.
   
§ 175-103.   Floodplain regulations.
   
§ 175-104.   Forestry.
   
§ 175-105.   Grading and filling.
   
§ 175-106.   Height limitations.
   
§ 175-107.   Historical, archaeological and cultural preservation.
   
§ 175-108.   Home occupations.
   
§ 175-109.   Home professional office.
   
§ 175-110.   Homeowners' association.
   
§ 175-111.   Hotels and motels.
   
§ 175-112.   On-site lighting.
   
§ 175-112.1.   Lot grading and drainage.
   
§ 175-113.   Lots.
   
§ 175-114.   Mobile agricultural employee housing.
   
§ 175-115.   Mobile homes.
   
§ 175-116.   Monuments.
   
§ 175-117.   Nonconforming uses, structures or lots.
   
§ 175-118.   Off-street parking and loading.
   
§ 175-119.   Contributions for off-tract improvements.
   
§ 175-120.   Performance standards.
   
§ 175-121.   Number of principal structures and uses permitted.
   
§ 175-122.   Public utilities.
   
§ 175-123.   Open space and recreation.
   
§ 175-124.   Service stations and car washes.
   
§ 175-125.   Shade trees.
   
§ 175-126.   Sidewalks.
   
§ 175-127.   Sight triangles.
   
§ 175-128.   (Reserved)
   
§ 175-129.   Soil erosion and sediment control.
   
§ 175-130.   Soil removal and redistribution.
   
§ 175-131.   Storage of recreational vehicles and boats.
   
§ 175-132.   Storage of commercial vehicles.
   
§ 175-133.   (Reserved)
   
§ 175-134.   Streets.
   
§ 175-135.   Swimming pools.
   
§ 175-136.   Vegetation.
   
§ 175-137.   Water quality.
   
§ 175-138.   Waste management.
   
§ 175-139.   Water supply.
   
§ 175-140.   Wetlands.
   
§ 175-141.   Yard areas.
ARTICLE XIII
Zoning
   
§ 175-142.   Zoning districts designated.
   
§ 175-143.   Zoning Map.
   
§ 175-144.   Zone boundaries.
   
§ 175-145.   General regulations.
   
§ 175-146.   Preservation Area.
   
§ 175-146.1.   Special Agricultural Production District.
   
§ 175-147.   Forest Area.
   
§ 175-148.   Agricultural Production District.
   
§ 175-149.   Agricultural Production/Compatible Light Industry District.
   
§ 175-150.   Rural Residential District.
   
§ 175-151.   Residential-1 District.
   
§ 175-152.   Residential-2 District.
   
§ 175-153.   Residential-3 District.
   
§ 175-154.   (Reserved)
   
§ 175-154.1.   Gateway District, Avenue.
   
§ 175-154.2.   Gateway District, Boulevard.
   
§ 175-154.3.    Gateway District, Crossroads.
   
§ 175-154.4.    Downtown District, Near Town.
   
§ 175-154.5.    Downtown District, In Town Railway.
   
§ 175-154.6.    Downtown District, In Town.
   
§ 175-154.7.    Downtown District, Downtown.
   
§ 175-154.8.    Conditional Uses, Downtown and Gateway Districts.
   
§ 175-154.9.   Downtown Improvement District.
   
§ 175-155.   Highway Business District.
   
§ 175-156.   General requirements for business districts.
   
§ 175-157.   Industrial Park District.
   
§ 175-158.   Multi-Use District.
   
§ 175-158.1.   Inclusionary Development Zone.
   
§ 175-159.   Recreation Zone.
   
§ 175-160.   Building types.
   
§ 175-161.   Signs.
   
§ 175-162
.   Affordable housing
ARTICLE XIV
Penalties; Enforcement; Duration of Variances
   
§ 175-163.   Violations and penalties.
   
§ 175-164.   Enforcement.
   
§ 175-165.   Duration of variances.
ARTICLE XV
Outstanding Permits, Approvals and Variances
   
§ 175-166.   Effect on outstanding permits, approvals and variances.
ARTICLE XVI
Repealer; Severability; When Effective
   
§ 175-167.   Repealer.
   
§ 175-168.   Severability.
   
§ 175-169.   When effective; filing with county; amendments.
ARTICLE XVII
Stormwater Management
   
§ 175-170.   Scope and purpose.
   
§ 175-171.   Definitions.
   
§ 175-172.   Stormwater management requirements.
   
§ 175-173.   Calculation of stormwater runoff and groundwater recharge.
   
§ 175-174.   Sources for technical guidance.
   
§ 175-175.   Solids and floatable materials control standards.
   
§ 175-176.   Safety standards for stormwater management basins.
   
§ 175-177.   Requirements for a site development stormwater plan.
   
§ 175-178.   Maintenance and repair.
   
§ 175-179.   Variances
   
§ 175-180.   Penalties.
ARTICLE XVIII
Personal Wireless Telecommunications Facilities
   
§ 175-181.   Purpose.
   
§ 175-182.   Development.
   
§ 175-183.   Design standards.
   
§ 175-184.   Collocation policy.
ARTICLE XIX
Wind and Solar Energy Systems
   
§ 175-185.   Purpose.
   
§ 175-186.   Small wind energy systems and solar energy systems permitted as
accessory uses; restrictions.
   
§ 175-187.   Development requirements for wind energy systems.
   
§ 175-188.   Development requirements for solar energy systems.
   
§ 175-189.   General requirements for all small wind energy systems and solar
energy systems.
   Drawing: 2-Lot
   Drawing: 3-Lot
[HISTORY: Adopted by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town of Hammonton 9-
10-1984 by Ord. No. 17-1984. 1 Amendments noted where applicable.]
1.   Editor's Note: This ordinance was reaffirmed as the Land Use Ordinance of
the Town 6-26-2000 by Ord. No. 16-2000, which stated: “The Land Use Ordinance
of the Town of Hammonton, adopted by the Mayor and Common Council of the Town
of Hammonton 9-10-1984 by Ord. No. 17-1984, and amendments thereto, as revised
and codified by General Code Publishers Corp. and renumbered as Chapter 175, is
hereby approved, adopted, ordained and enacted the land use legislation of the
Town of Hammonton.”
HOW TO USE THE NEW CODE ELEMENTS
The downtown provisions of Hammonton's Land Development Ordinance can be used
by following these SIX simple steps:
1.   Zoning Map. Locate your property on the Zoning Map (§
175-143) and use the corresponding color key to identify your property's
District.
2.   District Standards. Find the District Standards (§
175-154.1 through §
175-154.8) for the district in which your property is located.
3.   Building Types. Determine the Building Types that can be built in your
specific Zoning District by examining Figure 160B in §
175-160.
4.   Bulk Requirements. Follow the Building Type Bulk Requirements (§
175-160) for the specific Building Type.
5.   Compliance. Comply with additional standards by reviewing Article XII for
specifications regarding design, performance, and evaluation.*
6.   Application. Proceed to Development Review and Approval (Article VIII) to
prepare for permit application submittal.
* The remaining Sections are used as regulatory support documents to advise the
user on special circumstances or uses. These include General Standards and
methods and standards for handling off-street parking. Comply with these
sections if applicable and refer to the Definitions for more information.
ARTICLE I
General Provisions
§ 175-1. Purpose.
   There is hereby ordained by the Town Council for the Town of Hammonton,
Atlantic County, New Jersey, pursuant to the provisions of the New Jersey
Municipal Land Use Law (N.J.S.A. 40:55D-1 et seq.) and to implement the
Pinelands Protection Act (N.J.S.A. 13:18A-1 to 18A-29) and the Pinelands
Comprehensive Management Plan, a land development ordinance for the purpose of
and in order to: effectuate the Master Plan, enacted to guide the appropriate
development and redevelopment of land in a manner which will promote the public
health, safety, morals and general welfare; regulate the use of land within
zoning districts; secure safety from fire, flood, panic and other natural and
man-made disasters; provide adequate light, air and open space; limit and
restrict buildings according to their type and the nature and extent of their
use and regulate the nature and extent of the use of land for all purposes;
regulate the bulk, height, number of stories and size of buildings and other
structures; avoid a conflict with the development and general welfare of
neighboring municipalities, the county and the state; establish appropriate
population densities and concentrations contributing to the well-being of
persons, neighborhoods, communities and regions and the preservation of the
environment; provide sufficient space for residential, recreational, commercial
and industrial uses and open space; encourage the location and design of
transportation routes which will promote the free flow of traffic while
discouraging the location of such facilities and routes which result in
congestion or blight; promote a desirable visual environment through creative
development techniques and good civic design and arrangement; promote the
conservation of open space and valuable natural resources and to prevent urban
sprawl and degradation of the environment through improper use of land;
encourage coordination of various public and private procedures and activities
shaping land development with a view to lessening the cost of such development
and to the more efficient use of land; encourage planned development which
incorporates the best features of design and relates the type, design and
layout of residential, commercial, industrial and recreational development to
the particular site; encourage senior citizen community housing construction;
promote the conservation of energy through the use of planning practices
designed to reduce energy consumption and to provide for maximum utilization of
renewable energy sources; and preserve and protect the significant and unique
resources of the Pinelands.
§ 175-2. Conformance required.
   From and after the effective date of this chapter, the use of all land and
every building or portion of a building erected, altered with respect to height
and area, added to or relocated and every use within a building or use
accessory thereto, in the Town of Hammonton, shall be in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter. Any existing building or structure and any existing
use of a building or land not in conformity with the regulations herein
prescribed shall be regarded as nonconforming, but may be continued, extended
or changed subject to the special regulations herein provided.
§ 175-3. Interpretation.
   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this chapter, they shall be
held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public health,
safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare. Where the provisions of this
chapter impose greater restrictions than those of any statute, other ordinance
or regulation, the provisions of this chapter shall be controlling. Where the
provisions of any statute, other ordinance or regulation impose greater
restrictions than this chapter, the provisions of such statute, other ordinance
or regulation shall be controlling.
§ 175-4. Authority to be exclusive.
   Any power expressly authorized by this chapter (N.J.S.A. 40:55D-1 et seq.)
to be exercised by the Planning Board and/or the Zoning Board of Adjustment
shall not be exercised by any other body, except as otherwise provided herein.
§ 175-5. Effect on powers of governing body.
   Nothing herein shall be construed to contravene any other ordinance or state
statute providing for procedures for governing bodies. (See N.J.S.A. 40:55D-
9a.)
§ 175-6. Citizens' Advisory Committee.
   The Mayor may appoint one or more persons as a Citizens' Advisory Committee
to assist or collaborate with the Planning Board in its duties. Such person or
persons shall have no power to vote or take other action required of the Board.
Such person or persons shall serve at the pleasure of the Mayor. (See N.J.S.A.
40:55D-27a.)
§ 175-7. Zoning Officer.
   There is hereby established the office of Zoning Officer, who shall be
appointed by the Town Council. The Zoning Officer shall, along with the
Construction Code Official and his office, enforce the provisions of this
chapter.
§ 175-8. Compensation of board members.
   The Town Council may, upon adoption of a salary ordinance, adopt a manner of
payment of a salary and/or the reimbursement of expenses for the members of the
Planning Board and the Zoning Board of Adjustment.
ARTICLE II
Definitions
§ 175-9. Word usage.
   A.   Any word or term not defined shall be utilized with a meaning of
standard usage for the context in which the word is used.
   B.   In the interpretation of this chapter, the following words and their
derivations shall have the meanings herein given. Except when the context
clearly requires otherwise:
      (1)   Words used or defined in one tense or form shall include other
tenses and derivative forms.
      (2)   Words in the singular shall include the plural, and words in the
plural shall include the singular.
      (3)   The masculine gender shall include the feminine, and the feminine
gender shall include the masculine.
      (4)   The word "shall" is mandatory.
      (5)   The word "may" is permissive.
      (6)   In case of any difference of meaning or implication between the
text of this chapter and any caption, the text shall control.
§ 175-10. Terms defined.
   As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
indicated:
   ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT — A single bedroom and associated living area,
kitchen and bathroom facilities within an accessory structure in DT-1, DT-2,
DT-3, or GW-1 Zones on a lot for which residential use is allowable. To be
occupied by no more than two people.
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE OR USE — Except as otherwise expressly authorized by the
provisions of this chapter, N.J.S.A. 40:55D-1 et seq. and/or the Pinelands
Comprehensive Management Plan, and/or §
175-160 “Accessory Structure Building Type in Downtown and Gateway Districts,”
is a building, structure or use which:
[Amended 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   A.   Is subordinate and incidental to and serves a principal building or a
principal use.
   B.   Is subordinate in area, extent and purpose to the principal structure
or principal building or a principal use.
   C.   Contributes primarily to the comfort, convenience or necessity of the
occupants, business or industry of the principal structure or principal use
served.
[Amended 7-28-1997 by Ord. No. 10-1997]
   D.   Is located on the same parcel as the principal structure or principal
use served.
[Amended 7-28-1997 by Ord. No. 10-1997]
   ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER — The Clerk of the town, unless a different town
official or officials have been designated by ordinance or statute.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE — An establishment having as a substantial or significant
portion of its stock-in-trade books, magazines, other periodicals, films and
other viewing materials which are distinguished or characterized by their
emphasis on matters depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual
activity, sexual conduct or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT MOTION-PICTURE THEATER — Any structure used for presenting films,
slides or pictures distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matters
depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activity, sexual conduct
or specified anatomical areas for observation by patrons therein.
   ADVERSE EFFECT — Conditions or situations, whether existing or proposed,
creating, imposing, aggravating or leading to impractical, unsafe or
unsatisfactory conditions on a property proposed for development or on adjacent
property, including but not limited to: improper circulation and drainage
rights-of-way; inadequate drainage facilities; insufficient street widths,
unsuitable street grades, unsuitable street locations to accommodate
prospective traffic or to coordinate and compose a convenient system;
disruptive environmental impacts; locating lots in a manner not adaptable for
the intended purpose without danger to health or peril from flood, fire,
erosion or other menace; providing for lots of insufficient size and neither
providing nor making future allowance for access to the interior portion of the
lot or for other facilities required by this chapter.
   AFFORDABLE HOUSING — Housing which falls within the financial means of a
household in accordance with economic guidelines as may be established and
published from time to time by the United States Department of Housing and
Urban Development and the State of New Jersey.
[Amended 12-27-1999 by Ord. No. 35-1999]
   AGRICULTURAL COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT — A retail sales establishment
primarily intended to sell agricultural products produced in the Pinelands. An
agricultural commercial establishment may be seasonal or year-round and may or
may not be associated directly with a farm; however, it does not include
supermarkets, convenience stores, restaurants and other establishments which
coincidentally sell agricultural products, nor does it include agricultural
production facilities such as a farm itself, nor facilities which are solely
processing facilities.
[Added 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989]
   AGRICULTURAL EMPLOYEE HOUSING — Residential dwellings for the seasonal use
of employees of an agricultural or horticultural use which, because of their
character or location, are not to be used for permanent housekeeping units and
which are otherwise accessory to a principal use of the lot for agriculture.
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989]
   AGRICULTURAL OR HORTICULTURAL PURPOSE OR USE — The use of land for the
activity of producing for sale or for home use or consumption plants or animals
useful to man, including but not limited to: forages or sod crops; grains and
feed crops; dairy animals and dairy products; poultry and poultry products;
livestock, including beef cattle, sheep, swine, horses, ponies, mules or goats
and including the breeding and grazing of any or all of such animals; bees and
apiary products; fur animals; trees and forest products; fruits of all kinds,
including grapes, nuts and berries; vegetables; nursery, floral, ornamental and
greenhouse products; or any land devoted to and meeting the requirements and
qualifications for payments or other compensation pursuant to a soil
conservation program under an agency of the federal government.
   AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS PROCESSING FACILITY — A facility designed, constructed
and operated for the express purpose of processing agricultural products grown
in the Pinelands, including washing, grading and packaging of those products.
[Added 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989]
   ALTERATIONS or ADDITIONS — As applied to a building or a structure, a change
or rearrangement in the structural parts, in the existing facilities or in the
means of egress; or an enlargement, whether by extension of a side or by
increasing in height; or the moving from one location or position to another.
In Zoning District B-1, also means any change in the front facade of any
structure or any site element normally visible to the public.
   ALTERNATE DESIGN PILOT PROGRAM TREATMENT SYSTEM — An individual or community
on site waste water treatment system that has the capability of providing a
high level of treatment including a significant reduction in the level of total
nitrogen in the wastewater and that has been approved by the Pinelands
Commission for participation in the alternate design wastewater treatment
systems pilot program pursuant to N.J.A.C. 7:50- 10.23(b). Detailed plans and
specifications for each authorized technology are available at the principal
office of the Pinelands Commission.
[Added 5-27-2003 by Ord. No. 7-2003; amended 11-19-2018 by Ord. No. 42-2018]
   AMENDMENT — A means for making changes in this chapter or to the certified
Master Plan herein as expressly authorized.
   ANIMALS, THREATENED OR ENDANGERED — As specifically set forth in the
Comprehensive Management Plan, Section 6-302, Fish and Wildlife. (See N.J.A.C.
7:50-3.12.)
   ANTENNA — A system of electrical conductors that transmits or receives radio
frequency signals for communications purposes.
[Added 8-23-2004 by Ord. No. 22-2004]
   ANTENNA SUPPORT STRUCTURE — A structure, other than a telecommunications
tower, which is attached to a building upon which one or more antennas are
located.
[Added 8-23-2004 by Ord. No. 22-2004]
   APPLICANT — A developer, landowner or person with an enforceable proprietary
interest submitting an application for development.
   APPLICATION FOR DEVELOPMENT — Any application filed with any approving
authority for any approval, authorization or permit which is a prerequisite to
initiating development in the Pinelands Area, except as provided in §
175-60A.
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989]
   APPROVING AUTHORITY — The Planning Board, Zoning Board of Adjustment or
other board, agency or official, when acting pursuant to the authority of this
chapter, with authority to approve or disapprove subdivisions, site plans,
construction permits, building permits or other applications for development
approval.
   APRON SHOPFRONT — A building type that is typically a commercial property
that has been converted from single houses and expanded with an apron, which is
created when commercial design elements are added to the ground floor space
between the original structure and the sidewalk.
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   ARTIFICIAL REGENERATION — The establishment of tree cover through direct or
supplemental seeding or planting.
[Added 4-22-2013 by Ord. No. 005-2013]
   ASSISTED LIVING FACILITY — A facility licensed by the New Jersey Department
of Health and Senior Services pursuant to N.J.A.C. 8:36-1 et seq. which is
designed and operated to provide apartment-style housing and congregate dining
while assuring that a coordinated array of supportive personal and health
services are available, as needed, to four or more adult persons unrelated to
the proprietor. Each unit in an assisted living facility shall offer, at a
minimum, one unfurnished room, a private bathroom, a kitchenette and a lockable
door on the unit entrance. "Assisted living facility" shall include assisted
living residences and assisted living programs as defined at N.J.A.C. 8:36-1.3.
[Added 5-21-2007 by Ord. No. 13-2007]
   BANK OR SAVINGS INSTITUTION — An officially chartered institution empowered
to receive deposits, make loans, and provide checking and saving account
services, all at a profit.
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   BAR OR TAVERN — An establishment in which alcoholic beverages are served,
primarily by the drink, and where food or packaged liquors may also be served
or sold.
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   BASEMENT — That portion of a building which is partly below and partly above
grade and having at least 1/2 its height above grade. (See "grade," "story" and
"cellar.")
   BEDDING — A silvicultural practice involving the preparation of land before
planting in the form of small mounds so as to concentrate topsoil and elevate
the root zone of seedlings above temporary standing water.
[Added 4-22-2013 by Ord. No. 005-2013]
   BLOCK — A unit of land bounded by streets or by a combination of streets and
public land, railroad rights-of-way, waterways, or any other barrier to the
continuity of development.
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT — The Board established pursuant to Article V (N.J.S.A.
40:55D-69) of this chapter and known legally as the "Zoning Board of
Adjustment."
   BROADCAST SCARIFICATION — A silvicultural practice involving the dragging of
cut trees or other objects across a parcel to remove or reduce above-ground
shrub cover, debris, leaf litter and humus without disturbance to mineral soil
horizons and associated roots.
[Added 4-22-2013 by Ord. No. 005-2013]
   BUFFER — A strip of land containing natural woodlands, earth mounds and/or
planted screening material and separating one kind of land use or one property
from another and which is more specifically defined in §
175-91 of this chapter.
   BUILDING — Any structure, either temporary or permanent, which:
   A.   Has a roof.
   B.   Is designed, used or intended to be used for any use or occupancy,
including but not limited to the sheltering or protection of persons, animals,
chattels or property of any kind.
   C.   Forms, by a combination of materials, a construction adapted to such
occupancy.
   BUILDING AND STRUCTURE HEIGHT — The dimension of a building, measured from
the average slope point of grade along the building's perimeter to the highest
point along the roofline. This dimension is expressed in both feet and stories.
[Amended 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   BUILDING AREA — The area included within surrounding exterior walls (or
exterior walls and fire walls), exclusive of vent shafts, courts, cornices,
eaves and gutters. Areas of the building not provided with surrounding walls
shall be included in the building area if included within the horizontal
projection of the roof or floor above.
   BUILDING COVERAGE — The square footage or other area measurement by which
all buildings occupy a lot, as measured on a horizontal plane around the
periphery of the foundations, and including the area under the roof of any
structure supported by columns, but not having walls, as measured around the
outside of the outermost extremities of the roof above the columns.
   BUILDING, EXISTING — Any building erected prior to the adoption of this
chapter, or one for which a legal building permit has been issued.
   BUILDING LINE — The line parallel to the street line at a distance there
from equal to the depth of the required front yard. A building shall not extend
beyond this line, except for encroachments as otherwise allowed in this
chapter.
[Amended 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   BUILDING SITE — The area occupied by a building or structure, including the
yards and courts required for light and ventilation and such areas that are
prescribed for access to the street.
   BUILDING TYPE — A structure that is determined by a building's height,
scale, use, and location of the building on its lot.
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   BULK REGULATIONS — Standards applying to individual lots that control the
placement, intensity, and character of development and include the amount of
open space on the lot, the height of structures, setbacks from property lines
and public rights-of-way, impervious coverage, floor area ratio, and density.
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   BUSINESS — Retail business and service establishments, including retail
shops, personal service establishments, business and professional offices,
banks and fiduciary institutions, eating and drinking establishments, hotels
and motels, commercial recreation and public assembly halls, funeral homes,
commercial parking lots and the like.
   CAMOUFLAGE — A design technique which is planned to enhance compatibility
with the adjacent land uses and environment, including but not limited to
architecturally screened roof-mounted antennas, antennas integrated into
architectural elements, and telecommunications towers designed to appear as
light poles, power poles and trees. It also includes the use of appropriate
landscape designs. The term "camouflage" does not necessarily exclude the use
of lattice, guyed or monopole tower designs.
[Added 8-23-2004 by Ord. No. 22-2004]
   CAMPER — A portable structure, which is self-propelled or mounted on or
towed by another vehicle, designed and used for temporary living for travel,
recreation, vacation or other short-term uses. "Camper" does not include mobile
homes or trailers.
[Added 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989]
   CAMPSITE — A place used or suitable for camping on which temporary shelter,
such as a tent or camper, may be placed and occupied on a temporary and
seasonal basis.
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989]
   CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT — A governmental acquisition of real property or major
construction project.
   CARTWAY — The hard or paved surface portion of a street customarily used by
vehicles in the regular course of travel. Where there are curbs, the cartway is
the portion between the curbs. Where there are no curbs, the cartway is that
portion between the edges of the paved or graded width.
   CELLAR — That portion of a building which is partly or completely below
grade and having at least ½ its height below grade. (See "grade," "story" and
"basement.")
   CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS — A certificate issued pursuant to §
175-21 of this chapter and N.J.A.C. 7:50-6.156.
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989  2 ]
   CERTIFICATE OF FILING — The certificate issued by the Pinelands Commission
which is a prerequisite to the filing of a complete application for major
development with any local approving agency (N.J.A.C. 7:50-4.34 and 50-4.82).
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989]
   CERTIFICATE OF USE AND OCCUPANCY — The certificate issued by the
Construction Code Official which permits the use of a building in accordance
with the approved plans and specifications and which certifies compliance with
the provisions of law for the use and occupancy of the building in its several
parts, together with any special stipulations or conditions of the building
permit.
   CERTIFIED COUNTY MASTER PLAN OR ORDINANCE — Any county master plan or
ordinance certified by the Pinelands Commission pursuant to the Comprehensive
Management Plan (N.J.A.C. 7:50-3.21 through 50-3.30) as being in conformance
with the minimum standards of said plan.
   CERTIFIED MUNICIPAL MASTER PLAN OR LAND USE ORDINANCE — Any municipal master
plan or land use ordinance certified by the Commission pursuant to the
Comprehensive Management Plan (N.J.A.C. 7:50-3.31 through 50-3.50) as being in
conformance with the minimum standards of said plan.
   CHANGE OF USE — An alteration to a heretofore existing building from one
type of use group to a new use group which imposes provisions of law governing
building construction, equipment or means of egress, and which provisions are
special to the form of use proposed.
   CIRCULATION — Systems, structures and physical improvements for the movement
of people, goods, water, air, sewage or power by such means as streets,
highways, railways, waterways, towers, airways, pipes and conduits, and the
handling of people and goods by such means as terminals, stations, warehouses
and other storage buildings or transshipment points. 3  
   CIVIC BUILDING — A building type that contains a public or civic use of
special significance to residents, employees, or visitors. Civic buildings are
used for the following purposes: community services, daycare, education,
government, places of worship, or social services. Civic buildings do not
include retail buildings, residential buildings, or buildings with private
offices.
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   CIVIC USE — Use of a lot, building, or structure by a house of worship,
library, school, or municipal use.
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   CLEARCUTTING — A silvicultural practice involving removal of an entire
forest stand in one cutting for purposes of regeneration either obtained
artificially, by natural seed or from advanced regeneration. Clear cutting
typically results in the removal of all woody vegetation from a parcel in
preparation for the establishment of new trees; however, some trees may be left
on the parcel.
[Added 4-22-2013 by Ord. No. 005-2013]
   CMP — The Comprehensive Management Plan for the Pinelands.
   COAH — The New Jersey Council on Affordable Housing.
[Added 6-17-2002 by Ord. No. 28-2002; amended 8-26-2002 by Ord. No. 32-2002]
   COLOCATION — Use of a common PWTF, or a common site, by two or more wireless
license holders, or by one wireless license holder for more than one type of
communications technology, and/or placement of a PWTF on a structure owned or
operated by a utility or other public entity.
[Added 8-23-2004 by Ord. No. 22-2004]
   COMMENCEMENT OF CONSTRUCTION — Actual construction on a parcel of land in
accordance with a permit issued by the applicable approving authority of a form
and character such that the work performed is not usable for any other form of
development except that authorized by the issued permit.
   COMMERCIAL FOREST — Any parcel of land five acres or larger used for profit
or gain by the cutting of trees for sale as fuel or wood products.
   COMMON OPEN SPACE — An open space area within or related to a site
designated as a development and designed and intended for the use or enjoyment
of residents and owners of the development. Common open space may contain such
complementary structures and improvements as are necessary and appropriate for
the use or enjoyment of residents and owners of the development.
   COMMUNITY RESIDENCE FOR THE DEVELOPMENTALLY DISABLED — Any community
residential facility licensed pursuant to N.J.S.A. 30:11B-1 et seq., providing
food, shelter and personal guidance, under such supervision as required, to not
more than 15 developmentally disabled or mentally ill persons who require
assistance, temporarily or permanently, in order to live in the community, and
shall include, but not be limited to: group homes, halfway houses, intermediate
care facilities, supervised apartment living arrangements and hotels. It shall
not be considered a health care facility within the meaning of the Health Care
Facilities Planning Act, N.J.S.A. 26:2H-1 et seq. In the case of such residence
housing mentally ill persons, such residence shall have been approved for a
purchase of service contract or an affiliation agreement pursuant to such
procedures as shall be established by regulation of the Division of Mental
Health and Hospitals of the Department of Human Services.
   COMMUNITY SHELTER FOR VICTIMS OF DOMESTIC VIOLENCE — Any shelter approved
for a purchase of service contract and certified pursuant to standards and
procedures established by regulation of the Department of Human Services
pursuant to N.J.S.A. 30:14-1 et seq., providing food, shelter, medical care,
legal assistance, personal guidance and other services to not more than 15
persons who have been victims of domestic violence, including any children of
such victims, who temporarily require shelter and assistance in order to
protect their physical or psychological welfare.
   COMPLETE APPLICATION — An application form completed as specified by this
chapter and the rules and regulations of the approving board and all
accompanying documents required by this chapter for approval of the application
for development, including, where applicable, but not limited to, a site plan
or subdivision plat, provided that the board may require such additional
information not specified in this chapter or any revisions in the accompanying
documents as are reasonably necessary to make an informed decision as to
whether the requirements necessary for approval of the application for
development have been met. The application shall not be deemed incomplete for
lack of any such additional information or any revisions in the accompanying
documents so required by the municipal agency. An application shall be
certified as complete immediately upon the meeting of all requirements
specified in the ordinance and in the rules and regulations of the board and
shall be deemed complete as of the day it is so certified by the administrative
officer for purposes of the commencement of the time period for action by the
board.
   COMPREHENSIVE MANAGEMENT PLAN — The plan and amendments adopted by the
Pinelands Commission pursuant to Section 7 of the Pinelands Protection Act and
to be cited as "N.J.A.C. 7:50 et seq."
   CONDITIONAL USE — A use permitted in a particular zoning district only upon
a showing that such use in the specified location will comply with the
conditions and standards for the location or operation of such use as contained
in this chapter and upon the issuance of an authorization therefor by the
Planning Board.
   CONSTRUCTION — The erection, reconstruction, alteration, conversion,
demolition, removal or equipping of buildings or structures.
   CONTIGUOUS LANDS — Land which is connected or adjacent to other land so as
to permit the land to be used as a functional unit, provided that separation by
lot line, streams, dedicated public roads which are not paved, rights-of-way
and easements shall not affect the contiguity of land unless a substantial
physical barrier is created which prevents the land from being used as a
functional unit.
[Amended 6-28-1993 by Ord. No. 13-1993]
   COPPICING — A silvicultural practice involving the production of forest
stands from vegetative sprouting by the trees that are harvested (stump
sprouts, root suckers, and naturally rooted layers). Coppicing typically
involves short rotations with dense stands of short trees.
[Added 4-22-2013 by Ord. No. 005-2013]
   CORNICE LINE — A prominent, continuous, horizontally projecting feature
surmounting a building's front facade, dividing it horizontally for
compositional purposes.
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   COTTAGE HOUSE — A variant of the single house with a lower allowable height
and smaller side and front setbacks. It is intended for smaller lots.
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   COUNTY — The County of Atlantic unless otherwise specified.
   COUNTY MASTER PLAN — A composite of the Master Plan for the physical
development of Atlantic County with the accompanying maps, plats, charts and
descriptive and explanatory matter adopted by the County Planning Board
pursuant to N.J.S.A. 40:27-2 and 40:27-4 or their successor statutes.
   COUNTY PLANNING BOARD — The County Planning Board, as defined and organized
pursuant to N.J.S.A. 40:27-6.1, of the county in which the land or development
is located. Said Board is responsible for county planning.
   CROSSWALK — An Americans with Disabilities Act and Manual on Uniform Traffic
Control Devices compliant path clearly delineated on a street, parking lot, or
access drive to indicate where pedestrians should cross.
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   CURB CUT — A break in the curb line and sidewalk for means of ingress or
egress of motor vehicles.
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   DATE OF SUBMISSION OF AN APPLICATION FOR DEVELOPMENT — The date of filing
offered by the Board Secretary.
   DAY — For purposes of computing time limits, refers to a calendar day.
   DAYCARE — A use category, applicable to certain building types in certain
Downtown and Gateway Districts, for daytime training, supervision, recreation,
and often medical services for children of preschool age, for the disabled, or
for the elderly.
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   DENSITY, GROSS — The total number of units in the proposed development
divided by the total number of acres of the proposed development site.
   DENSITY, NET — The total number of dwelling units in a proposed development
divided by the total number of acres of the proposed development site,
exclusive of commercial and industrial uses and land to be dedicated to a
public agency or government.
   DEVELOPER —
   A.   The legal or beneficial owner or owners of a lot or of any land
proposed to be included in a proposed development, including the holder of an
option or contract to purchase, or other person having an enforceable
proprietary interest in such land.
   B.   Any person or persons or entity who seeks building permits or
certificates of occupancy as a result of residential development.
[Added 8-23-2004 by Ord. No. 21-2004]
   DEVELOPMENT — The change of or enlargement of any use or disturbance of any
land, the performance of any building or mining operation, the division of land
into two or more parcels and the creation or termination of rights of access or
riparian rights, including but not limited to:
   A.   A change in type of use of a structure or land.
   B.   A reconstruction, alteration of the size or material change in the
external appearance of a structure or land.
   C.   A material increase in the intensity of use of land, such as an
increase in the number of businesses, manufacturing establishments, offices or
dwelling units in a structure or on land.
   D.   Commencement of resource extraction, drilling or excavation on a parcel
of land.
   E.   Demolition of a structure or removal of trees.
   F.   Deposit of refuse, solid or liquid waste or fill on a parcel of land.
   G.   In connection with the use of land, the making of any material change
in noise levels, thermal conditions or emissions of waste material.
   H.   Alteration, either physically or chemically, of a shore, bank or
floodplain, seacoast, river, stream, lake, pond, wetlands or artificial body of
water.
   I.   Commencement of forestry activities.
[Added 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989]
   DEVELOPMENTALLY DISABLED PERSON — A person who is developmentally disabled,
as defined in N.J.S.A. 30:11B-2.
   DEVELOPMENT APPROVAL — Any approval granted by any town approving authority.
   DEVELOPMENT FEES — Money paid by an individual, person, partnership,
association, company or corporation for the improvement of property as
permitted in COAH's rules.
[Added 6-17-2002 by Ord. No. 28-2002; amended 8-26-2002 by Ord. No. 32-2002]
   DEVELOPMENT, PUBLIC — Any development by a public agency.
   DEVELOPMENT REGULATION — A zoning ordinance, subdivision ordinance, site
plan ordinance, official map ordinance or other municipal regulation for the
use and development of land, or amendment thereto, adopted and filed.
   DISKING — A silvicultural practice involving the drawing of one or more
heavy, round, concave, sharpened, freely rotating steel disks across a site for
the purposes of cutting through soil and roots or cutting and turning a furrow
over an area.
[Added 4-22-2013 by Ord. No. 005-2013]
   DISPLAY WINDOWS — Windows on the ground story of a building that allow
visibility into and out of a retail space and are used for retail display.
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   DISTRICT — A portion of the territory of the town within which certain
regulations and requirements or various combinations thereof apply.
   DIVISION — The Division of State and Regional Planning in the Department of
Community Affairs.
   DOWNTOWN BUILDING — A multistory building type with one or more dwellings or
offices in upper stories and retail or office uses on the ground floor.
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   DOWNTOWN DISTRICT — One of a group of districts in Hammonton surrounding
Bellevue Avenue generally referred to as the downtown area.
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   DRAINAGE — The removal of surface water or groundwater from land by drains,
grading or other means, including control of runoff to minimize erosion and
sedimentation during and after construction or development and means necessary
for water supply preservation or prevention or alleviation of flooding.
   DRAINAGE AND UTILITY RIGHT-OF-WAY — The lands required for the installation
and maintenance of stormwater and sanitary sewers, water pipes or drainage
ditches and other utilities or lands required along a natural stream or
watercourse for preserving the channel and providing for the flow of water
therein to safeguard the public against flood damage.
   DRUM CHOPPING — A silvicultural practice involving the drawing of a large
cylindrical drum with cutting blades mounted parallel to its axis across a site
to break up slash, crush scrubby vegetation prior to burning or planting or to
chop up and disturb the organic turf and roots in the upper foot of soil.
[Added 4-22-2013 by Ord. No. 005-2013]
   DUPLEX — A detached building occupying a single lot where the family
dwelling units are separated by a horizontal floor, unpierced except for access
to the outside or to a common basement or cellar.
   DWELLING, SEMIDETACHED — A building occupying a single lot, separated into
two dwelling units by a vertical party wall, unpierced except for access to the
outside or to a common basement or cellar.
   DWELLING UNIT/APARTMENT, MULTIPLE-FAMILY — A suite of rooms designed for or
occupied by one family or household and situated in a building containing three
or more such suites of rooms. Such units may share some facilities, utilities
or services, such as entrance halls, electric or water connections, basement
areas, heating plant or refuse disposal facilities.
   DWELLING UNIT or DWELLING — One or more rooms used or intended to be used
for living purposes by one or more persons living together and maintaining a
common household, having separate cooking and sanitary facilities and
accessible from the outdoors, either directly or through an entrance hall
shared with other dwelling units except in the case of accessory dwelling
units. Not included are mobile homes, hotels, motels, lodging houses,
boardinghouses or tourist homes.
[Amended 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   DWELLING UNIT, SINGLE-FAMILY ATTACHED (townhouse, rowhouse) — A dwelling
unit which is one of a group of three or more attached dwelling units separated
by vertical party walls, each having separate front and rear or front and side
entrances from the outside and a full complement of utilities and facilities
for use as a dwelling unit.
   DWELLING UNIT, SINGLE-FAMILY DETACHED — A building on a lot designed and
occupied exclusively as a residence for one family or household, which has yard
or open areas on all sides, having no common walls with any other building.
   DWELLING UNIT, TWIN OR TWO-FAMILY — A building on a lot designed and
occupied exclusively as a residence for two families or households, which has a
common wall separating two units, each of which has a full complement of
utilities and facilities for use as a dwelling and separate means of ingress
and egress.
   EAVE LINE — For a pitched roof, the lowest point of the primary roof
structure.
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   EAVE LINE — The distance of a building measured from grade to the eave line.
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION LINES — All electric lines other than electric
transmission lines.
[Added 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989]
   ELECTRIC TRANSMISSION LINE — Electric lines which are part of an electric
company's transmission and sub transmission system, which provide a direct
connection between a generating station or substation of the utility company
and:
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989] 
   A.   Another substation of the utility company.
   B.   A substation of or interconnection point with another interconnecting
utility company.
   C.   A substation of a high-load customer of the utility.
   ENLARGEMENT — An addition to the floor area of an existing building, an
increase in the size of any other existing structure or an increase in the
portion of a tract of land occupied by an existing use.
   ENVIRONMENTAL COMMISSION — A town advisory body created pursuant to N.J.S.A.
40:56A-1 et seq.
   EQUALIZED ASSESSED VALUE — The value of a property determined by the
Municipal Tax Assessor through a process designed to ensure that all property
in the municipality is assessed at the same assessment ratio or ratios required
by law. Estimates at the time of issuance of a building permit may be obtained
utilizing estimates for construction cost. Final equalized assessed value will
be determined at project completion by the Municipal Tax Assessor.
[Added 6-17-2002 by Ord. No. 28-2002; amended 8-26-2002 by Ord. No. 32-2002]
   EROSION — The detachment and movement of soil or rock fragments by water,
wind, ice or gravity.
   EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR — The chief administrative officer of the Pinelands
Commission or any representative designated by such chief administrative
officer to perform any functions delegated to such chief administrative officer
pursuant to any provision of the Plan.
   FAMILY — Any number of persons, related or not, living and cooking together
as a single housekeeping unit.
   FAMILY, IMMEDIATE — Those persons related by blood or legal relationship in
the following manner: spouses, domestic partners, great-grandparents,
grandparents, great- grandchildren, grandchildren, parents, sons, daughters,
brothers and sisters, aunts and uncles, nephews, nieces and first cousins.
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989; 7-28-1997 by Ord. No. 10-1997; 11-19-
2018 by Ord. No. 42-2018]
   FARM, ACCESSORY USES — Buildings incidental to farms, such as: greenhouses;
buildings for housing seasonal workers for the farm's own use; barns; packing,
grading and storage buildings; buildings for keeping poultry and permitted
livestock; and garages for the keeping of equipment and trucks used in farm
operations.
   FARM BUILDING — Any building used for the housing of agricultural equipment,
produce, livestock or poultry or for the incidental or customary processing of
farm products, provided that such building is located on, operated in
conjunction with and is necessary to the operation of a farm, as defined by
this chapter.
   FARM, PRINCIPAL USES — A tract of contiguous property of at least five acres
used for the growing and harvesting of crops and the raising and breeding of
certain animals, including truck farms, fruit farms, nurseries and greenhouses,
dairies and livestock produce.
   FINAL APPROVAL — The official action of the approving board taken on a
preliminary approved major subdivision or site plan after all conditions,
engineering plans and other requirements have been completed or fulfilled and
the required improvements have been installed or guaranties properly posted for
their completion or approval conditioned upon the posting of such guaranties.
   FISH AND WILDLIFE MANAGEMENT — The changing of the characteristics and
interactions of fish and wildlife populations and their habitats in order to
promote, protect and enhance the ecological integrity of those populations.
   FLOOD FRINGE — That portion of the flood hazard area outside of the
floodway.
   FLOOD HAZARD AREA — The floodway and relative flat areas adjoining the
floodway which have been or may be hereafter covered by floodwater and which
area, the improper development and general use of which, would constitute a
threat to the public's safety, health and general welfare. The flood hazard
area shall constitute the total area inundated by the flood hazard design
flood.
   FLOODPLAIN — The general flat terrain subject to periodic flooding adjacent
to streams, ponds, lakes or swamps.
   FLOODWAY — The channel of a natural stream and portions of the floodplain
adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to carry and discharge the
floodwater or flood flow of any natural stream. This shall constitute the
portions of the floodplain needed for the passage of the floodway design flood
without an appreciable rise in the water surface profile.
   FLOOR AREA — The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several floors of
a building, measured from the exterior faces of the exterior walls or from the
center line of a wall separating two buildings.
   FORESTRY
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989; 7-28-1997 by Ord. No. 10-1997; 4-22-2013
by Ord. No. 005-2013]
    — The planting, cultivating and harvesting of trees for the production of
wood products, including firewood or for forest health. It includes such
practices as reforestation, site preparation and other silvicultural practices,
including but not limited to artificial regeneration, bedding, broadcast
scarification, clear cutting, coppicing, disking, drum chopping, group
selection, individual selection, natural regeneration, root raking, seed tree
cut, shelter wood cut and thinning. For purposes of this chapter, the following
activities shall not be defined as forestry:
   A.   Removal of trees located on a parcel of land one acre or less on which
a dwelling has been constructed;
   B.   Horticultural activities involving the planting, cultivating or
harvesting of nursery stock or Christmas trees;
   C.   Removal of trees necessitated by the development of the parcel as
otherwise authorized by this chapter;
   D.   Removal of trees necessary for the maintenance of utility or public
rights-of-way;
   E.   Removal or planting of trees for the personal use of the parcel owner;
and
   F.   Removal of trees for public safety.
   FORESTRY MANAGEMENT PLAN — As set forth in the Comprehensive Management Plan
(N.J.A.C. 7:50-6.9) and §
175-104 of this chapter.
   FOREST STAND — A uniform group of trees of similar species, composition,
size, age and similar forest structure.
[Added 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989; amended 4-22-2013 by Ord. No. 005-2013]
   FRONT FACADE — The side of a building that faces a street: corner buildings
have two front facades.
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   FRONT SETBACK — Location along a line drawn parallel with the street line or
the front lot line and drawn through the point of a building or structure
nearest to the street line or front lot line to establish the closest distance
the front of the Building can be placed in relation to the front lot line.
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   FUNERAL PARLOR — A building used for the preparation of the deceased for
burial and the display of the deceased and rituals connected therewith before
burial or cremation.
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   GARAGE, PRIVATE — A building for housing motor vehicles, with no provision
for repairing or servicing such vehicles for profit.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC — A building or part thereof, other than a private garage,
used for the storage, care or repair of motor vehicles for profit, including
any sale of motor vehicles, fuels or accessories, or in which any such vehicles
are kept for hire.
   GASOLINE FILLING STATIONS — Any area of land, including structures thereon,
that is used for the sale of gasoline or other motor vehicle fuel, oil or
lubricating substance and which may include the sale of motor vehicle
accessories and facilities for polishing, greasing, washing, spraying, dry
cleaning or otherwise cleaning or servicing such motor vehicles.
   GATEWAY DISTRICT — One of a group of districts clustered around the
intersection of White Horse Pike and Route 54, within which certain regulations
and requirements apply.
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   GOVERNING BODY — The Town Council.
   GRADE —
   A.   For buildings adjoining one street only, the elevation of the
established curb at the center of the wall adjoining the street.
   B.   For buildings adjoining more than one street, the average of the
elevations of the established curbs at the center of all walls adjoining
streets.
   C.   For buildings having no wall adjoining the street, the average level of
the ground adjacent to the exterior walls of the building. All walls
approximately parallel to and not more than 15 feet from a street line are to
be considered as adjoining a street.
   GROUND FLOOR — The first floor of a building that is level with or elevated
above the sidewalk, excluding basements and cellars.
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   GROUND FLOOR RESIDENCE — Residence on the ground floor.
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   GROUP SELECTION — A silvicultural practice whereby a group of trees is
periodically selected to be removed from a large area so that age and size
classes of the reproduction are mixed.
[Added 4-22-2013 by Ord. No. 005-2013]
   HABITAT — The natural environment of an individual animal or plant,
population or community.
   HEALTH CARE FACILITY — The office of a medical doctor, doctor of dentistry,
osteopath, chiropractor or similar practitioner, office or clinic, hospital,
convalescent home, nursing facility or any other facility, which use is
involved with the physical health of its users. 3  
   HISTORIC DISTRICT — An area designated by the Pinelands Commission, pursuant
to the Comprehensive Management Code (N.J.A.C. 7:50-6.154), as having such
historic, prehistoric, architectural, cultural or archaeological importance as
to merit special protection, or such an area designated as the "Hammonton
Historic District" on the Zoning District Map, subject to the regulations of §
175-107 of this chapter.
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989]
   HISTORIC RESOURCE — Any site, building, area, district, structure or object
important in American history or prehistory, architecture, archaeology and
culture at the national, state, county, local or regional level.
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989; 6-12-1989 by Ord. No. 19-1989; 7-28-1997
by Ord. No. 10-1997]  4  
   HOME OCCUPATION — As defined in §
175-108 of this chapter.
   HOME PROFESSIONAL OFFICE — As defined in §
175-109 of this chapter.
   HOSPITAL — General hospital, as set forth in N.J.A.C. 8:43G-1.3(b)1, which
shall include any hospital licensed by the New Jersey Department of Health and
Senior Services, or any successor agency thereto, which maintains and operates
organized facilities and services, including satellite or hospital-based off-
site ambulatory care fealties, for the diagnosis, treatment or care of persons
suffering from acute illness, injury or deformity and in which all diagnosis,
treatment, and care are administered by or performed under the direction of
persons licensed to practice medicine or osteopathy in the State of New Jersey.
[Added 3-22-2010 by Ord. No. 3-2010]
   HOUSE OF WORSHIP — A special purpose building or structure, or a special
purpose group of buildings or structures, that is architecturally designed,
particularly adapted, and specifically constructed for the primary use of
conducting, on a regular basis, formal, organized religious services and
associated accessory uses, by a nonprofit, recognized, religious congregation
or body.
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   HYDROPHYTES — Any plant growing in water or in substrate that is at least
periodically deficient in oxygen as a result of excessive water content.
   IMPERMEABLE SURFACE — Any surface which does not permit fluids to pass
through or penetrate its pores or spaces, typically having a maximum
permeability for water of 10-7 cm/second at the maximum anticipated hydrostatic
pressure. The term "impermeable" is equivalent in meaning.
[Amended 4-22-2013 by Ord. No. 005-2013]
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE — Any surface that has been compacted or covered with a
layer of material so that it prevents, impedes or slows infiltration or
absorption of fluid, including stormwater directly into the ground, and results
in either reduced groundwater recharge or increased stormwater runoff
sufficient to be classified as impervious in Urban Areas by the United States
Department of Agriculture, Natural Resources Conservation Service Title 210 -
Engineering, 210-3-1 - Small Watershed Hydrology (WINTR-55) Version 1.0. Such
surfaces may have varying degrees of permeability.
[Added 4-22-2013 by Ord. No. 005-2013]
   INDIVIDUAL SELECTION — A silvicultural practice whereby single trees are
periodically selected to be removed from a large area so that age and size
classes of the reproduction are mixed.
[Added 4-22-2013 by Ord. No. 005-2013]
   INDUSTRIAL — Manufacturing plants of a type which carry on processes within
completely enclosed buildings; wholesale distribution centers for wholesale
sales, storage and distribution, including facilities for bulk storage;
enclosed service and repair facilities; equipment sales and service; business
offices and office buildings; industrial plants not involving the synthesis of
chemical products for direct industrial sale; research laboratories; and other
light industrial uses of the same general character. 
   INSTITUTIONAL USE — Any land used for the following public or private
purposes: educational facilities, including universities, colleges, elementary
and secondary and vocational schools, kindergartens and nurseries; cultural
facilities, such as libraries, galleries, museums, concert halls, theaters and
the like; hospitals, including such educational, clinical, research and
convalescent facilities as are integral to the operation of the hospital;
medical and health service facilities, including nursing homes, supervised
residential institutions, rehabilitation therapy centers and public health
facilities; law enforcement facilities; military facilities; religious
buildings; churches; cemeteries; public office buildings; and other similar
facilities.
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989]
   INTERESTED PARTY OR PERSON —
   A.   In a criminal or quasi-criminal proceeding, any citizen of the State of
New Jersey.
   B.   In the case of a civil proceeding in any court or in an administrative
proceeding before a municipal agency, any person, whether residing within or
without the municipality, whose right to use, acquire or enjoy property is or
may be affected by any action taken under this chapter or whose rights to use,
acquire or enjoy property under this chapter or under any other law of this
state or of the United States have been denied, violated or infringed upon by
an action or a failure to act under this chapter.
   INTERIM RULES AND REGULATIONS — The regulations adopted by the Pinelands
Commission pursuant to the Pinelands Protection Act to govern the review of
applications from the adoption of the regulations until the Pinelands
Comprehensive Management Plan took effect on January 14, 1981. These
regulations were formerly codified as N.J.A.C. 7:1G-1 et seq.
[Added 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989]
   INTERIOR LOT LINE — Any lot line other than one adjoining a street or public
space.
   JUNK- OR SALVAGE YARD — Any area or structure used or intended to be used
for conducting and operating of the business of selling, buying, storing or
trading in used or discarded metal, glass, paper, cordage or any used or
disabled fixtures, vehicles or equipment of any kind.
   JUNKYARD — Any lot of land on which junk is placed, collected, stored or
kept.
   JUNKYARD, APPROVED CHARITABLE OR NONPROFIT DROP-OFF DEPOSITORIES AND/OR
RECYCLING CENTER — Any state or federally approved tax-exempt charitable or
nonprofit organization may establish drop-off depositories for the purpose of
collecting clothes or other similar items or for collecting materials to be
used in recycling. The location of such depositories shall be reviewed by the
Planning Board.
   JUNKYARD, MOTOR-VEHICLE — Any business or any place of storage or deposit on
property in the Town of Hammonton of two or more unregistered motor vehicles or
two or more automobiles which, in the opinion of the Director of Public Safety,
Construction Subcode Official or Zoning Officer, are unfit for reconditioning
for use for highway transportation or used parts of motor vehicles or material
which has been a part of a motor vehicle, the sum of which parts or materials
shall, in the opinion of the Director of Public Safety, Construction Subcode
Official or Zoning Officer, be equal in bulk to two or more motor vehicles.
   JUNKYARD, USED BUILDING MATERIAL — Any person, firm or corporation who
purchases, obtains or sells any used lumber or any other type of used
materials.
   JUNKYARD, USED RAGS, GLASS, PAPER AND SCRAP METAL — Any person, firm or
corporation who purchases, obtains or sells any old discarded or unused waste
iron or other metal or substance, glass, paper and rags.
   LAND — Includes the surface and subsurface of the earth, as well as
improvements and fixtures on, above or below the surface and any water found
thereon.
   LANDFILL — Sites, including open dumps, where solid waste, liquid and dry
sewage, sludge and liquid and dry chemical waste are disposed of by land
application, with or without the use of management practices or soil covering.
For the purposes of this chapter, solid waste transfer stations shall not be
considered landfills.
   LANDSCAPING — The installation of plant material or seed as a part of a
development.
   LAND USE ORDINANCES or LAND USE REGULATION — Any county or municipal
ordinance or regulation which, in any way, regulates or affects the development
of land.
   LEACHATE COLLECTOR — Shall have the meaning attributed to the phrase by, and
each such leachate collector shall conform to the requirements of, the New
Jersey Solid Waste Administration.
   LINER BUILDING — A building type that is a building or portion of a building
constructed between the facade of a parking garage, supermarket, or other large
building and that building's lot line to conceal large expanses of blank wall
area. Liner buildings face the street with a facade that has ample doors and
windows opening on to the sidewalk.
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   LIVE-WORK BUILDING — A building type that is a variant of flex buildings and
townhomes that combines living space with work space that is related to the
livelihood of the building's occupants. All of these uses may occupy any story
of the building. A live-work building may include one unit or multiple units,
and may be an attached or detached unit.
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   LOCAL COMMUNICATIONS FACILITY — An antenna and any support structure,
together with any accessory facilities, which comply with the standards in
N.J.A.C. 7:50-5.4 and which are intended to serve a limited, localized audience
through point to point communication, including cellular telephone cells,
paging systems and dispatch communications. It does not include radio or
television broadcasting facilities or microwave transmitters.
[Added 7-28-1997 by Ord. No. 10-1997]
   LOCAL PERMITTING OR APPROVING AGENCY — Any county or municipal official,
department, agency or other body authorized to rule on any application for
development.
   LOCAL RETAIL — A use category applicable to certain building types in
certain Downtown and Gateway Districts. Includes (but not limited to) grocery
stores, meat markets, supermarkets, delicatessens, bakeries, drugstores,
furniture stores, sporting good shops, gift shops, hardware stores, package
liquor stores, pet shops, stationery stores, fabric stores, florists and
jewelry stores, galleries, but excluding automobile sales.
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   LOCAL SERVICE — A use category applicable to certain building types in
certain Downtown and Gateway Districts. Includes (but not limited to) barber-
and beauty shops, tailors, photographer's studios, retail dry-cleaning and
laundering operations, appliance repair shops, shoe repair shops, upholsterers,
newspaper/print shops and customer service centers.
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   LOFT BUILDING — A building type that was formerly used as, or has been built
to resemble an industrial factory or mill. Loft buildings contain multiple
dwellings above and beside each other, multiple offices above and beside each
other, and sometimes both. This building type occupies most of its lot width
and is placed close to the sidewalk with parking hidden behind or next to it.
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   LOT — Any parcel, tract or area of land separated from other parcels or
portions and established by a lawful subdivision, plat, deed, or record, survey
map, by metes and bounds description or otherwise permitted by law and to be
used, developed or built upon as a unit.
   A.   CORNER LOT — A lot with at least two adjacent sides abutting upon
intersecting streets or other public spaces.
   B.   INTERIOR LOT — A lot which faces on one street or with opposite sides
on two streets and any other lot which is not a corner lot.
   LOT AREA — The area contained within lot lines but not including any portion
of a street. The minimum lot area of a lot fronting on a street proposed to be
widened in accordance with the Town Official Map, when adopted, shall be the
minimum area required for the district in which it is located, plus the
additional area needed to anticipate the ultimate widening of the street.
   LOT COVERAGE or COVERAGE — The area of the lot covered by all buildings and
all impervious surfaces.
   LOT DEPTH — The shortest horizontal distance between the front lot line and
a line drawn parallel to the front line through the midpoint of the rear lot
line.
   LOT FRONTAGE — A lot line or portion thereof which is coexistent with a
single street line. In the case of a street of undefined width, said lot line
shall be assumed to parallel the center line of the street at a distance 25
feet there from. In the case of corner lots, the smaller of the two or more lot
lines coexistent with street lines shall be considered as the frontage.
   LOT LINE — A line dividing one lot from another or from a street or any
public space.
   LOT WIDTH — The distance between the side lot lines, measured at the minimum
required building setback from the street line.
   LOW INCOME HOUSEHOLD — A household with an annual income of less than 50% of
the median income for Atlantic County or for the Standard Metropolitan
Statistical Area.
   MAINTENANCE BOND — Any security acceptable to the Town Council to assure the
maintenance of duly approved improvements installed by the developer after the
final acceptance of the improvements and in accordance with this chapter.
   MAINTENANCE GUARANTY — Any security which may be accepted by the town for
the maintenance of any improvements required by this chapter and as set forth
in Article X of this chapter.
   MAJOR SUBDIVISION — Refer to definition of "subdivision, major."
   MANUFACTURED HOME — Any unit of housing consisting of one or more sections
which were substantially constructed off-site and joined together on-site and
which were manufactured in accordance with any construction code recognized by
the United States Government or that of the State of New Jersey, which is not
located in a mobile home park, which meets the Health Code of the State of New
Jersey and that has perimeter walls. The manufactured housing shall have a
width of not less than 22 feet.
   MANUFACTURING — The processing and converting of raw, unfinished or finished
materials or products or any of these into an article or substance of different
character or for use for a different character or for use for a different
purpose; also industries furnishing labor in the case of manufacturing or the
refinishing of manufactured articles.
   MASSAGE PARLOR — Any establishment, public or private, where physical
contact is provided resulting in any specified sexual activity or sexual
conduct.
   MASTER PLAN, TOWN — A composite of one or more written or graphic proposals
for the development of the town as set forth in and adopted pursuant to §
175-11 of this chapter. (See N.J.S.A. 40:55D-28.)
   MAYOR — The chief executive of the town.
   MEDIAN INCOME — The median of household income as determined from time to
time by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development to be the
median.
   MENTALLY ILL PERSON — A person who is afflicted with a mental illness, as
defined in N.J.S.A. 30:4-23,  6 but shall not include a person who has been
committed after having been found not guilty of a criminal offense by reason of
insanity or having been found unfit to be tried on a criminal charge.
   MINOR SUBDIVISION — Refer to definition of "subdivision, minor."
   MIXED-USE BUILDING — A building that includes more than one use: typically,
those having different uses on the first floor and the upper floors of the
building. A common example is a ground story commercial use with offices and/or
residences on upper floors.
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   MOBILE HOME — A structure, use or vehicle which is designed to be used as
living quarters for long-term occupancy and contains plumbing and electrical
connections for attachment to outside systems; and is designed for
transportation after fabrication on streets or highways on its own wheels; and,
upon delivery to the site, is ready for occupancy, except for minor and
incidental unpacking and assembly operations, location on jacks or other
temporary foundations, connections to utilities and the like.
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989]
   MOBILE HOME PARK — A parcel or tract of land under single ownership which
has been planned and improved for the placement of mobile homes for dwelling
purposes.
   MODERATE INCOME HOUSEHOLD — A household with an annual income which is less
than 80% of the median income for Atlantic County or the Standard Metropolitan
Statistical Area.
   MUNICIPAL AGENCY — The Town Planning Board or Zoning Board of Adjustment, or
the Town Council when acting pursuant to this chapter and any agency which is
created by or responsible to one or more municipalities when such agency is
acting pursuant to this chapter.
   MUNICIPAL USE — The use of land, building or structures by the town or by
any officially created authority or agency thereof.
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   MUNICIPALITY — The Town of Hammonton, County of Atlantic and State of New
Jersey.
   NATURAL REGENERATION — The establishment of a plant or plant age class from
natural seeding, sprouting, suckering or layering.
[Added 4-22-2013 by Ord. No. 005-2013]
   NAVIGABLE WATER — Water capable of being traversed by pleasure craft.
   NONCONFORMING BUILDING — A building legally existing at the effective date
of this chapter which does not conform to the regulations of this chapter
applicable to the district in which the building is located.
   NONCONFORMING LOT — A lot, the area, dimension or location of which was
lawful prior to the adoption, revision or amendment of this chapter, but which
fails to conform to the requirements of the zoning district in which it is
located by reason of such adoption, revision or amendment.
   NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE — A structure, the size, dimension or location of
which was lawful prior to the adoption, revision or amendment of this chapter,
but which fails to conform to the requirements of the zoning district in which
it is located by reason of such adoption, revision or amendment.
   NONCONFORMING USE — A use or activity which was lawful prior to the
adoption, revision or amendment of this chapter, but which fails to conform to
the requirements of the zoning district in which it is located by reason of
such adoption, revision or amendment.  7
   OCCUPANCY — The specific purpose for which land or a building is used,
designed or maintained.
   OFFICIAL COUNTY MAP — The map, with changes and additions thereto, adopted
and established, from time to time, by resolution of the Board of Chosen
Freeholders of Atlantic County pursuant to N.J.S.A. 40:27-5.
   OFFICIAL MAP — A map adopted by ordinance pursuant to N.J.S.A. 40:55D-32 et
seq.
   OFF-SITE — Located outside the lot lines of the lot in question but within
the property (of which the lot is a part) which is the subject of a development
application or contiguous portion of a street or right-of-way.
   OFF-SITE COMMERCIAL ADVERTISING SIGN — A sign which directs attention to a
business, commodity, service or entertainment conducted, sold or offered at a
location other than the premises on which the sign is located.
   OFF-TRACT — Not located on the property which is the subject of a
development application nor on a contiguous portion of a street or right-of-
way.
   ON-SITE — Located on the lot in question.
   ON-TRACT — Located on the property which is the subject of a development
application or on a contiguous portion of a street or right-of-way.
   OPEN SPACE — Any parcel or area of land or water essentially unimproved and
set aside, dedicated, designated or reserved for public or private use or
enjoyment or for the use and enjoyment of owners and occupants of land
adjoining or neighboring such open space, provided that such areas may be
improved with only those buildings, structures and other improvements that are
designed to be incidental to the natural openness of the land, but not
including streets, off-street parking areas, stormwater facilities or any other
areas required to be set aside for buffers or recreation areas by any other
sections of this chapter.
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989]
   OWNER — Any individual, firm, association, syndicate, co partnership,
corporation or trust having sufficient proprietary interest in the land to be
developed in order to commence and maintain proceedings to subdivide the same
under this chapter.
   PAD COMMERCE BUILDING — A building type that comprises one structure with a
single commercial occupant, and is detached with side yards, a front yard, and
a rear yard.
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   PARCEL — Any quantity of land, consisting of one or more lots, that is
capable of being described with such definiteness that its location and
boundaries may be established.
[Amended 7-28-1997 by Ord. No. 10-1997]
   PARK — An improved area of open space, designated or reserved for public
recreational use.
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   PARKING LOT, COMMERCIAL — Any lot or area other than a street which is
devoted to the parking of automobiles, available for public use, whether in
return for a fee or as an accommodation for clients or customers, and which is
not directly operated by and on behalf of the use permitted in the zone in
which located.
   PARKING SPACE — An open space or garage, on a lot, used for parking motor
vehicles to which there is access from a street.
   PARTY WALL — A fire wall on an interior lot line used or adapted for joint
service between two buildings.
   PERFORMANCE GUARANTY — Any security, in accordance with the requirements of
this chapter, which may be accepted in lieu of a requirement that certain
improvements be made before the town approves a plat, including performance
bonds, escrow agreements, letters of credit and other similar collateral or
surety agreements.
   PERMEABILITY — The rate at which water moves through a unit area of soil,
rock, or other material at hydraulic gradient of one.
[Added 4-22-2013 by Ord. No. 005-2013]
   PERMIT — An official document or certificate issued by the authority having
jurisdiction and authorizing performance of a specified activity.
   PERMITTED USE — Any use of land or buildings as permitted by this chapter.
   PERSON — An individual, corporation, public agency, business trust,
partnership, co partnership, association, two or more persons having a joint or
common interest or any other legal entity.
   PERSONAL WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT FACILITIES (hereinafter
referred to as "PWTEFS") — Accessory facilities serving PWTF and subordinate in
area, extent and purpose and on the same lot as a telecommunications tower,
antenna location or antenna support structures. Such facilities include, but
are not limited to, transmission equipment, storage sheds, storage buildings,
electronic cabinets, equipment and security fencing.
[Added 8-23-2004 by Ord. No. 22-2004]
   PERSONAL WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES (hereinafter referred to as
"PWTFS") — Facilities for the provision of wireless communications services,
including but not limited to antennas, antenna support structures, and
telecommunications towers, other than PWTEFs.
[Added 8-23-2004 by Ord. No. 22-2004]
   PINELANDS — The Pinelands National Reserve and the Pinelands Area.
   PINELANDS AREA — That area designated as such by Section 10(a) of the
Pinelands Protection Act.
   PINELANDS COMMISSION — The Pinelands Commission created pursuant to Section
5 of the Pinelands Protection Act.  8
   PINELANDS DEVELOPMENT CREDIT — On certain other lands in the Pinelands Area,
a use right allocated to certain lands within the Pinelands Area pursuant to
N.J.A.C. 7:50-5.43 that can be used to secure a residential density bonus on
certain other lands within the town and the Pinelands Area.
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989]
   PINELANDS DEVELOPMENT REVIEW BOARD — The agency responsible from February 8,
1979, until June 28, 1979, for the review of and action on applications for
development in the Pinelands Area which required approvals of other state
agencies, except where the Pinelands Commission acted on applications during
that time period.
[Added 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989]
   PINELANDS NATIONAL RESERVE — That area designated as such by Section 3(i) of
the Pinelands Protection Act.
   PINELANDS NATIVE FOREST TYPE - See N.J.A.C. 7:50-6.43.
[Added 4-22-2013 by Ord. No. 005-2013]
   PINELANDS PROTECTION ACT — N.J.S.A. 13:18A-1 to 18A-29, as amended.
   PINELANDS RESOURCE RELATED USE — Any use which is based on resources which
are indigenous to the Pinelands, including but not limited to forest products,
berry agriculture and sand, gravel clay or ilmenite.  [Amended 4-10-1989 by
Ord. No. 7-1989]
   PLANNED COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT — An area of a minimum contiguous size, as
specified by this chapter, to be developed according to a plan as a single
entity containing one or more structures with appurtenant common areas to
accommodate commercial or office uses, or both, and any residential and other
uses incidental to the predominant use as may be permitted by this chapter.
   PLANNED DEVELOPMENT — Planned unit development, planned unit residential
development, planned commercial development or planned industrial development.
[Amended 3-25-2002 by Ord. No. 12-2002]
   PLANNED INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT — An area of a minimum contiguous size, as
specified by this chapter, to be developed according to a plan as a single
entity containing one or more structures with appurtenant common areas to
accommodate industrial uses and any other uses incidental to the predominant
use as may be permitted by this chapter.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT — An area with a specified minimum contiguous
acreage of five acres or more to be developed as a single entity according to a
plan, containing one or more residential clusters or planned unit residential
developments and one or more public, quasipublic, commercial or industrial
areas in such ranges or ratios of nonresidential uses to residential uses as
shall be specified in this chapter.
   PLANNED UNIT RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT — An area with a specified minimum
contiguous acreage to be developed as a single entity according to a plan,
containing one or more residential clusters, which may include appropriate
commercial or public or quasi-public uses all primarily for the benefit of the
residential development.
   PLANNING BOARD — The Town Planning Board established by §
175-13 of this chapter. (See N.J.S.A. 40:55D-23.)
   PLANTING STRIP — The area between the curb and the sidewalk, intended to
provide a buffer between pedestrians and vehicles, where grass and street trees
are often located.
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   PLANTS, THREATENED OR ENDANGERED — A Pinelands plant species whose survival
worldwide, nationwide or in the state is in jeopardy.
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989]
   PLAT — One or more maps of a subdivision or a site plan which show the
location, boundaries and ownership of individual properties.
   PODIUM BUILDING — A building type that is a variant of the liner building,
but which has a small footprint on the ground level at the front of the lot
with the rest of the lot devoted to parking spaces and auto circulation; with
larger floors on the second floor (and higher floors, if applicable) above all
or some of the parking spaces.
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   PORCH — A covered area open to the outside except for a roof or support
structures such as columns or railings, adjoining an entrance to a building.
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   PRELIMINARY APPROVAL — The conferral of certain rights prior to final
approval after specific elements of a development plan have been agreed upon by
the approving board and the applicant and after the applicant has proceeded in
accordance with §
175-70A or
175-67 of this chapter.
   PRELIMINARY FLOOR PLANS AND ELEVATIONS — Architectural drawings prepared
during early and introductory stages of the design of a project illustrating in
a schematic form its scope, scale and relationship to its site and immediate
environs.
   PRESERVATION AREA — That area so designated by Section 10(b) of the
Pinelands Protection Act.
   PRIME AGRICULTURAL LANDS — Those soils designated in the Atlantic County
Soil Survey as Agricultural Capability Classes I and II.
   PRINCIPAL BUILDING — A building in which is conducted the main or principal
use of the lot on which said building is situated.
   PRINCIPAL USE — The main purpose for which a lot or building is used.
   PRIVATE SCHOOL — A secondary or elementary school run and supported by
private individuals or a corporation rather than by a public agency.
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   PROFESSIONAL OFFICE — The office of a member of a recognized and legal
profession maintained for the conduct of that profession, limited to doctors,
dentists, architects, engineers, planners, lawyers, real estate agents,
insurance brokers or similar licensed professionals.
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   PROTECTION AREA — All land within the Pinelands Area which is not included
in the Preservation Area.
   PUBLIC AGENCIES — The Government of the United States of America, the State
of New Jersey or any other state, their political subdivisions, agencies or
instrumentalities, or any interstate and regional agencies exercising sovereign
powers of government.
   PUBLIC AREAS —
   A.   Public parks, playgrounds, trails, paths and other recreational areas.
   B.   Other public open spaces.
   C.   Scenic and historic sites.
   D.   Sites for schools and other public buildings and structures.
   PUBLIC DEVELOPMENT — The development or subdivision of land by the Town
Council, School Board or any other officially created municipal agency or
authority.
   PUBLIC DEVELOPMENT PROPOSAL — A master plan, capital improvement program or
other proposal for land development adopted by the appropriate public body, or
any amendment thereto.
   PUBLIC OPEN SPACE — An open space area conveyed or otherwise dedicated to
the town, a town agency, Board of Education, state or county agency or other
public body for recreational or conservational or other public uses.
   PUBLIC SERVICE INFRASTRUCTURE — Sewer service, gas, electricity, water,
telephone, cable television and other public utilities developed linearly,
roads and streets and other similar services provided or maintained by any
public or private entity.
[Added 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989  9 ]
   QUORUM — The majority of the full authorized membership of a town agency.
   REAR SETBACK — Location along a line drawn parallel with the rear lot line
to establish the closest distance the rear of the building can be placed in
relation to the rear lot line.
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   RECOMMENDED MANAGEMENT PRACTICE — The management program which employs the
most efficient use of available technology, natural, human and economic
resources.
   RECORD TREE — The largest tree of a particular species in New Jersey based
on its circumference at 4.5 feet above ground level. A listing of the largest
known tree of each species and its location is maintained at the principal
offices of the Commission.
[Added 7-28-1997 by Ord. No. 10-1997]
   RECREATIONAL FACILITY, INTENSIVE — Any recreational facility which does not
satisfy the definition of "low-intensive recreational facility," including but
not limited to golf courses, marinas, amusement parks, hotels and motels.
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989]
   RECREATIONAL FACILITY, LOW-INTENSIVE — A facility or area which complies
with the standards of N.J.A.C. 7:50-5, Part II, utilizes and depends on the
natural environment of the Pinelands and requires no significant modifications
of that environment other than to provide access, and which has an
insignificant impact on surrounding uses or on the environmental integrity of
the area. It permits such low-intensity uses as hiking, hunting, trapping,
fishing, canoeing, nature study, orienteering, horseback riding and bicycling.
[Amended 7-28-1997 by Ord. No. 10-1997]  10
   RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPER — The erector of a new dwelling unit which increases
the intensity of the use of the land or the division of land into two or more
lots for residential purposes.
[Added 8-23-2004 by Ord. No. 21-2004]
   RESOURCE CONSERVATION PLAN — A plan, prepared for review by the Soil
Conservation District, which details the proposed use of agricultural
recommended management practices.
   RESOURCE EXTRACTION — The dredging, digging, extraction, mining and
quarrying of sand, gravel, clay or ilmenite for commercial purposes, not
including, however, the private or agricultural extraction and use of extracted
material by a landowner.
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989]
   RESOURCE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM PLAN — A plan, prepared in accordance with the
United States Department of Agriculture, Natural Resources Conservation Service
New Jersey Field Office Technical Guide, dated June 2005. Such plans shall
prescribe needed land treatment and related conservation and natural resources
management measures, including forest management practices, for the
conservation, protection and development of natural resources, the maintenance
and enhancement of agricultural or horticultural productivity, and the control
and prevention of non-point source pollution; and establish criteria for
resource sustainability of soil, water, air, plants and animals.
[Added 4-22-2013 by Ord. No. 005-2013]
   RESTAURANT — Any establishment however designated at which food is sold
primarily for consumption on the premises.
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   RESUBDIVISION —
   A.   The further division or relocation of lot lines of any lot or lots
within a subdivision previously made and approved or recorded according to law;
or
   B.   The alteration of any streets or the establishment of any new streets
within any subdivision previously made and approved or recorded according to
law, but does not include conveyances so as to combine existing lots by deed or
other instrument.
   REVERSE FRONTAGE — Access to lots fronting on a major road from an accessory
street, rather than a collector street.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY — The total width and length of the course of a street,
watercourse, utility alignment or other way and within which all improvements
and right of access are confined.
   ROOF — The roof slab or deck with its supporting members, not including
vertical supports.
   ROOF LINE — The highest point of a building, such as the peak of a pitched
roof or a parapet.
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   ROOF STRUCTURE — An enclosed structure on or above the roof of any part of a
building.
   ROOT RAKING — A silvicultural practice involving the drawing of a set of
tines, mounted on the front or trailed behind a tractor, over an area to
thoroughly disturb tree and vegetation roots and/or to collect stumps and
slash.
[Added 4-22-2013 by Ord. No. 005-2013]
   SCALE — The proportion of a structure's mass and bulk in relationship to
other structures in the structure's neighborhood; or the relative size of a
building, street fixture, sign, or other architectural element.
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   SEASONAL HIGH-WATER TABLE — The level below the natural ground surface to
which water seasonally rises in the soil in most years.
   SEDIMENTATION — The deposition of soil that has been transported from its
site of origin by water, ice, wind, gravity or other natural means as a product
of erosion.
   SEED TREE CUT — A silvicultural practice involving the removal of old forest
stand in one cutting, except for a small number of trees left singly, in small
groups or narrow strips, as a source of seed for natural regeneration.
[Added 4-22-2013 by Ord. No. 005-2013]
   SETBACK — The distance between the street line or property line and the
building line.
[Amended 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   SETBACK LINE — The line that is established a minimum horizontal distance
from the lot line and beyond which the building or part of a building is not
permitted to extend toward the lot lines. All setbacks from public streets
shall be measured from the proposed right-of-way width as shown on any adopted
state, county or town master plan or official map, when adopted. This line
shall be located at the building line.
   SEXUAL CONDUCT — Human masturbation, sexual intercourse or any touching of
the genitals, pubic areas or buttocks of the human male or female or the
breasts of the female, whether alone or between members of the same or opposite
sex or between humans and animals in an act of apparent sexual stimulation or
gratification.
   SHELTERWOOD CUT — A silvicultural practice involving the establishment of a
new, essentially even-aged forest stand from release, typically in a series of
cuttings, of new trees started under the old forest stand. A shelter wood cut
involves the establishment of the new forest stand before the old forest stand
is removed.
[Added 4-22-2013 by Ord. No. 005-2013]
   SHOPFRONT — A ground floor facade, which is characterized by display windows
and a building's main entrance. This facade is typically found on buildings
that contain commercial uses on the ground floor, but have residential features
such as a pitched rather than a flat roof.
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   SHOPPING CENTER — A unified development of not less than three stores, shops
or other commercial establishments, together with areas for internal
circulation, parking and other accessory uses consisting of one or more lots
under the same or separate ownership.
[Added 3-22-2010 by Ord. No. 3-2010]
   SIDE SETBACK — Location along a line drawn parallel with the side lot line
and drawn through the point of a building or structure nearest to the street
line or front lot line.
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   SIDEWALK — An improved path for pedestrian use outside the cartway.
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   SIGHT TRIANGLE EASEMENT AT INTERSECTION AND/OR DRIVEWAY — A triangular
shaped area established in accordance with the requirements of this chapter in
which nothing shall be erected, placed, planted or allowed to grow more than
three feet above the center-line grade of either street and/or driveway.
   SIGN — Any object, device, display or structure or part thereof, situated
outdoors or indoors, which is used to advertise, identify, display, direct or
attract attention to an object, person, institution, organization, business,
product, service, event or location by any means, including words, letters,
figures, designs, symbols, fixtures, colors, illumination or projected images.
"Signs" do not include the flag or emblem of any nation, organization of
nations, state or city or any fraternal, religious or civic organization;
merchandise, pictures or models of products or services incorporated in a
window display; works of art which in no way identify a product; or scoreboards
located on athletic fields.
   SIGN, AREA OF — The area included within the frame or edge of the sign,
including all lettering, wording, coloring and accompanying designs and
symbols, together with the background where open or closed. Where the sign has
no such frame or edge, the area shall be defined by an enclosed four-sided
(straight sides) geometric shape which most closely outlines said sign. The
supporting framework and bracketing incidental to the display shall not be
included.
   SINGLE HOUSE — A building type in Downtown and Gateway Districts that
comprises one dwelling unit, and is detached with small side yards, a front
yard, and a rear yard. For single houses outside of these districts, see:
"DWELLING UNIT, SINGLE FAMILY DETACHED."
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   SITE COVERAGE or COVERAGE — The percentage of the gross site area covered by
roads, paving, structures or other impervious coverage.
   SITE PLAN, MAJOR — Any development plan of one or more lots which does not
meet the definition of "minor site plan."
   SITE PLAN, MINOR — A development plan of one or more lots which:
   A.   Does not propose the new construction of or any addition to a structure
or building which will result in the building coverage of a property involved
to be in excess of 5,000 square feet.
   B.   Does not require disturbance of more than 10,000 square feet of land
area.
   C.   Does not involve planned development.
   D.   Does not involve any new street or extension of any off-tract
improvements which is to be prorated pursuant to §
175-73 of this chapter.
   E.   Does not include off-street parking for more than 15 vehicles.
   F.   Contains the information reasonably required in order to make an
informed determination whether the requirements established by this chapter for
the approval of a minor site plan have been met.
   G.   Does not include commercial or industrial development on more than
three acres.
   SMALL WIND ENERGY SYSTEM — A wind energy system, as defined herein, that is
used to generate electricity and has a name plate capacity of 10 kilowatts or
less.
[Added 3-28-2011 by Ord. No. 4-2011]
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM — A solar energy system and all associated equipment
which converts solar energy into a usable electrical energy, heats water or
produces hot air or other similar functions through the use of solar panels.
[Added 3-28-2011 by Ord. No. 4-2011]
   SOLAR PANEL — A structure containing one or more receptive cells, the
purpose of which is to convert solar energy into usable electrical energy by
way of a solar energy system.
[Added 3-28-2011 by Ord. No. 4-2011]
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREA —
   A.   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic region,
buttock or female breast below a point immediately above the top of the areola.
   B.   Human genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITY —
   A.   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal.
   B.   Any act of human masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy.
   C.   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttock or female breast. 11
   STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE — Standards adopted by ordinance (N.J.S.A. 40:55D-
65d) regulating noise levels, glare, earth borne or sonic vibrations, heat,
electronic or atomic radiation, noxious odors, toxic matters, explosive and
inflammable matters, smoke and airborne particles, waste discharge, screening
of unsightly objects or conditions and such other similar matters as may be
reasonably required by the town or required by applicable federal or state laws
or other town ordinances.  12  
   STORY — That portion of a building included between the upper surface of a
floor and upper surface of the floor or roof next above.
   STORY, FIRST — The lowermost story entirely above the grade plane.
   STREET — Any street, avenue, boulevard, road, parkway, viaduct, drive or
other way:
   A.   Which is an existing state, county or municipal roadway;
   B.   Which is shown upon a plat heretofore approved pursuant to law;
   C.   Which is approved by official action as provided by this chapter; or
   D.   Which is shown on a plat duly filed and recorded in the office of the
county recording officer prior to the appointment of the Planning Board and the
grant to such Board of the power to review plats; and which includes the land
between the street lines, whether improved or unimproved, and may comprise
pavement, shoulders, gutters, curbs, sidewalks, parking areas and other areas
within the street lines.
   STREET LINE — The edge of the existing or future street right-of-way,
whichever would result in the widest right-of-way, as shown on the adopted
Master Plan or Official Map, when adopted, forming the dividing line between
the street and a lot. In the case of a street of undefined width, said street
line shall be assumed to parallel the center line of the street at a minimum
distance of 25 feet there from.
   STREET LOT LINE — The lot line dividing a lot from a street or other public
space.
   STREETSCAPE — Combined design elements within and along the public right-of-
way. including streetlights, sidewalks, landscaping, street furniture, and
signage.
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATION — Any change in either the supporting members of a
building, such as bearing walls, columns, beams and girders, or in the
dimensions or configurations of the roof or exterior walls.
   STRUCTURE — A combination of materials to form a construction for occupancy,
use or ornamentation having a fixed location on, above or below the surface of
land or attached to something having a fixed location on, above or below the
surface of land.
   STUDIO — The commercial use of premises for the production of dance, live
music, creative writing, painting, drawings, pottery or sculpture, video,
moving or still photography; teaching incidental to production, and for selling
of products produced, in whole or majority part, in that facility. A studio use
may have employees and signs, and may not engage in sexual conduct.
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   SUBDIVIDER — Any individual, firm, association, syndicate, partnership, co
partnership, corporation, trust or any legal entity commencing proceedings
under this chapter to effect a subdivision of land hereunder for himself or for
another with the written consent of the owner.
   SUBDIVISION —
   A.   The division of a lot, tract or parcel of land into two or more lots,
tracts, parcels or other divisions of land for sale or development. The
following shall not be considered subdivisions within the meaning of this
chapter, if no new streets are created:
   B.   Divisions of land found by the Planning Board to be for agricultural
purposes where all resulting parcels are five acres or larger in size.
   C.   Divisions of property by testamentary or intestate provisions.
   D.   Division of property upon court order, including but not limited to
judgments of foreclosure.
   E.   Consolidation of existing lots by deed or other recorded instrument.
   F.   The conveyance of one or more adjoining lots, tracts or parcels of land
owned by the same person or persons and all of which are found and certified by
the administrative officer to conform to the requirements of this chapter and
are shown and designated as separate lots, tracts or parcels on the Tax Map or
Atlas of the town.
   G.   The term "subdivision" shall also include the term "resubdivision."
   SUBDIVISION, MAJOR — Any subdivision of land not classified as a minor
subdivision.
   SUBDIVISION, MINOR — A subdivision of land for the creation of an aggregate
of not more than four lots (three new lots plus the remaining lot), provided
that such subdivision does not involve a planned development, any new streets
or the extension of any off-tract improvements, the cost of which is to be
prorated pursuant to §
175-119 of this chapter (N.J.S.A. 40:55D-42); and not being a further division
of an original tract of land for which previous minor subdivisions have been
approved by any board within the five years past and where the combination of
the proposed and approved minor subdivisions constitute a major subdivision.
Any readjustment of lot lines resulting in no new lots shall be classified as a
minor subdivision.
   SUBMERGED LANDS — Those lands which are inundated with water throughout the
year.
   SUBSTANTIVE CERTIFICATION — A determination by COAH approving a
municipality's housing element and fair share plan in accordance with the
provisions of the Fair Housing Act and the rules and criteria as set forth
herein. A grant of substantive certification shall be valid for a period of six
years in accordance with the terms and conditions therein.
[Added 6-17-2002 by Ord. No. 28-2002; amended 8-26-2002 by Ord. No. 32-2002]
   SWIMMING POOL — A structure artificially constructed in the ground, not
fully within a building, which provides recreational facilities for swimming,
bathing or wading and all buildings, equipment and appurtenances thereto. It
shall not include natural outdoor ponds, rivers or lakes.
   TAKE-OUT RESTAURANT — An establishment where food and/or beverages are sold
in a form ready for consumption, where all or a significant part of the
consumption takes place outside the confines of the restaurant, and where
ordering and pickup of food may take place from an automobile.
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWER — A freestanding structure on which one or more
antennas are located, including lattice towers, guyed towers, monopoles and
similar structures which are used for the transmission or receipt of radio
frequency signals for wireless communications.
[Added 8-23-2004 by Ord. No. 22-2004]
   THINNING — A silvicultural practice involving the removal of competing trees
to favor certain species, sizes and qualities of trees.
[Added 4-22-2013 by Ord. No. 005-2013]
   TOWNHOUSE — A building type in Downtown and Gateway Districts. A townhouse
is comprised of a single residence on a lot which is attached to similar
building types along a shared property line on each side, or on one side in the
case of corner lots. Townhouse building types do not have side yards, except on
corner lots, where the front door should be located along the longer of the
front or side facades. For townhouses outside of these districts, see:
"DWELLING UNIT. SINGLE FAMILY ATTACHED".
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   TRACT — An area of land composed of one or more lots adjacent to one
another, having sufficient dimensions and area to make one parcel of land
meeting the requirements of this chapter for the use(s) intended.
   TRAFFIC IMPACT STUDY — A report prepared by a NJ Licensed Professional
Engineer (P.E.) or Board Certified Professional Traffic Operations Engineer
(PTOE) which analyzes the traffic impact of the proposed development using
generally accepted traffic engineering standards, and identifies any impact
mitigation measures necessary to accommodate the development's traffic impact.
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   TRANSCRIPT — A typed or printed verbatim record of the proceedings or a
reproduction thereof.
   TWIN — A building type in downtown and gateway districts that is a variant
of a townhouse building type: a semidetached building that consists of two
dwelling units that abut along a shared property line. A twin building type has
one small side yard, one front yard, and one rear yard. For twins outside of
these districts, see: "DWELLING UNIT, TWIN OR TWO-FAMILY"
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   UPPER FLOOR — Any floor of a building that is above the ground floor and can
be occupied.
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   USE — The purpose for which the building, structure or site is designed,
used or intended to be used.
   UTILITY DISTRIBUTION LINES — Lines, conduits or pipes located in a street,
road, alley or easement through which natural gas, electricity, telephone,
cable television, water, sewage or stormwater discharge is distributed to or
from service lines extending from the main line to the distribution system of
the building or premises served. Utility distribution lines do not include
electric transmission lines.
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989; 7-28-1997 by Ord. No. 10-1997]
   VARIANCE — Permission to depart from the literal requirements of this
chapter and based upon the standards of this chapter.
   VEGETATION — Any plant material, including grasses, shrubs and trees.
   WALL — A structural member which also serves to separate space.
   WETLANDS — Those areas where the substrate is inundated or saturated by
surface or ground water at a frequency, magnitude and duration sufficient to
support, and, under normal circumstances, does support, a prevalence of
vegetation adapted for life in saturated soil conditions known as
"hydrophytes." Wetlands include lands with poorly drained or very poorly
drained soils as designated by the National Cooperative Soils Survey of the
Soil Conservation Service of the United States Department of Agriculture. The
Town of Hammonton does not have any area of coastal wetlands classification,
but does possess inland wetlands, including submerged lands as defined in
N.J.A.C. 7:50-6.3 and 50-6.5.
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989]
   WETLANDS MANAGEMENT — The establishment of a characteristic wetland or the
removal of exotic species or Phragmites from a wetland in accordance with the
standards of N.J.A.C. 7:50-6.10. For purposes of this definition, exotic
species are those that are not indigenous to North America.
[Added 4-22-2013 by Ord. No. 005-2013]
   WIND ENERGY SYSTEM — A wind turbine and all associated equipment, including
any base, blade, foundation, nacelle, rotor, tower, transformer, vein, wire,
inverter, batteries or other component necessary to fully utilize the wind
generator.
[Added 3-28-2011 by Ord. No. 4-2011]
   WIND TURBINE — Equipment that converts energy from the wind into
electricity. This term includes the rotor, blades and associated mechanical and
electrical conversion components necessary to generate, store and/or transfer
energy.
[Added 3-28-2011 by Ord. No. 4-2011]
   WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS — Any personal wireless service as defined in the
Federal Telecommunications Act of 1996 (FTA), and other FCC-licensed commercial
wireless telecommunications services, which include cellular, personal
communications services (PCS), specialized mobile radio SMR, enhanced
specialized mobile radio (ESMR), paging, and similar services which currently
exist or may in the future be developed. It does not include any amateur radio
facility that is owned and operated by a federally licensed amateur radio
station operator or is used exclusively for receive-only antennas, nor does it
include noncellular telephone service.
[Added 8-23-2004 by Ord. No. 22-2004]
   YARD — An unoccupied, unobstructed open space other than a court and
adjacent to a building. Porches and bay windows shall be considered a part of
the building. Overhanging eaves, gutters and cornices of two feet or less shall
not be considered an infringement of the requirements.
   YARD, FRONT — An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with the principal
building, extending the full width of the lot situated between the street line
and the building line projected on the side lines of that lot, exclusive of
overhanging eaves, gutters, cornices and steps.
   YARD, REAR — An open, unoccupied space extending across the full width of
the lot and lying between the rear line of the lot and the nearest line of any
building, exclusive of overhanging eaves, gutters, cornices and steps; the yard
directly opposite the chosen front yard. The depth of the rear yard shall be
measured at right angles to the rear line of the lot.
   YARDS, GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR — As to a front, rear or side yard,
easements on adjacent properties shall not be used in order to fulfill the
requirements for each such yard.
   YARD, SIDE — An open, unoccupied space between the side line of the lot and
the nearest line of a building and extending from the front yard to the rear
yard or, in the absence of either of such yards, to the street or rear lot
lines, as the case may be. The width of a side yard will be measured at right
angles to the side line of the lot. Overhanging eaves, cornices and steps are
excepted.
   ZONE — The area of the town also referred to and defined as a "district."
   ZONING — The reservation of certain specified areas within a community or
city for building and structures or use of land for certain purposes, with
other limitations such as height, lot coverage and other stipulated
requirements.
   ZONING PERMIT — A document signed by the administrative officer:
   A.   Which may be required by this chapter as a condition precedent to the
commencement of a use or the erection, construction, reconstruction,
alteration, conversion or installation of a structure or building; and
   B.   Which acknowledges that such use, structure or building complies with
the provisions of this chapter or variance there from duly authorized by a
municipal agency pursuant to this chapter.
 
Notes
2  2.   Editor's Note: This ordinance also repealed the former definition of
   "certificate of conformity," which immediately followed this definition.
3  3.   Editor's Note: The former definition of "cluster development," which
   immediately followed this definition, was repealed 3-25-2002 by Ord. No. 12-2002.
   3.   Editor's Note: The former definition of "Historic, Archaeological and
3  Cultural Preservation Board," which immediately followed this definition, was
   repealed 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989.
4  4.   Editor's Note: The former definition of "historic site," which immediately
   followed this definition, was repealed 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989.
6  6.   Editor's Note: N.J.S.A. 30:4-23 was repealed by L. 1987. c. 116, § 30,
   effective June 7, 1989. See now N.J.S.A. 30:4-27.2.
7  7.   Editor's Note: The former definition of "notice of filing," which
   immediately followed this definition, was repealed 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989.
   8.   Editor's Note: The former definition of "Pinelands development approval,"
8  which immediately followed this definition, was repealed 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-
   1989.
9  9.   Editor's Note: this article also repealed the former definition of "public
   services," which immediately followed this definition.
10 10.   Editor's Note: The former definition of "residential cluster," which
   immediately followed this definition, was repealed 3-25-2002 by Ord. No. 12-2002.
11 11.   Editor's Note: The former definition of "specimen tree," which immediately
   followed this definition, was repealed 7-28-1997 by Ord. No. 10-1997.
   12.   Editor's Note: The former definition of "standard subsurface sewage
12 disposal system," added 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989, was repealed 7-28-1997 by
   Ord. No. 10-1997.
ARTICLE III
Master Plan; Capital Improvement Program
§ 175-11. Master Plan.
   A.   Adoption or amendment; component parts.
      (1)   The Planning Board may prepare and, after public hearing, amend the
Master Plan, or adopt component parts thereof, to guide the use of lands within
the town in a manner which protects public health and safety and promotes the
general welfare.
      (2)   The Master Plan shall generally comprise a report or statement and
land use and development proposals, with maps, diagrams and text, presenting
where appropriate the following elements:
         (a)   A statement of objectives, principles, assumptions, policies and
standards upon which the constituent proposals for the physical, economic and
social development of the town are based.
         (b)   A land use plan element taking into account the other Master
Plan elements and natural conditions, including, but not necessarily limited
to, topography, soil conditions, water supply, drainage, floodplain areas,
marshes and woodlands; showing the existing and proposed location, extent and
intensity of development of land to be used in the future for varying types of
residential, commercial, industrial, agricultural, recreational, educational
and other public and private purposes or combination of purposes; and including
a statement of the standards of population density and development intensity
recommended for the town.
         (c)   A housing plan element, including but not limited to residential
standards and proposals for the construction and improvement of housing.
         (d)   A circulation plan element showing the location and types of
facilities for all modes of transportation required for the efficient movement
of people and goods into, about and through the town.
         (e)   A utility service plan element analyzing the need for and
showing the future general location of water supply and distribution
facilities, drainage and flood control facilities, sewage and waste treatment,
solid waste disposal and provisions for other related utilities.
         (f)   A community facilities plan element showing the location and
type of educational or cultural facilities, historic sites, libraries,
hospitals, firehouses, police stations and other related facilities, including
their relation to the surrounding areas.
         (g)   A recreation plan element showing a comprehensive system of
areas and public sites for recreation.
         (h)   A conservation plan element providing for the preservation,
conservation and utilization of natural resources, including, to the extent
appropriate, open space, water, forests, soil, marshes, wetlands, harbors,
rivers and other waters, fisheries, wildlife and other natural resources.
         (i)   An energy conservation plan element which systematically
analyzes the impact of each other component and element of the Master Plan on
the present and future use of energy in the town, details specific measures
contained in the other plan elements designed to reduce energy consumption and
proposes other measures that the town may take to reduce energy consumption and
to provide for the maximum utilization of renewable energy sources.
         (j)   Appendices or separate reports containing the technical
foundation for the Master Plan and its constituent elements.
      (3)   The Master Plan and its plan elements may be divided into sub plans
and sub plan elements projected according to periods of time or staging
sequences.
      (4)   The Master Plan shall include a specific policy statement
indicating the relationship of the proposed development of the town as
developed in the Master Plan to: the master plans of contiguous municipalities;
the Master Plan of Atlantic County; and any comprehensive guide plan pursuant
to N.J.S.A. 13:1B-15.52. Editor's Note: N.J.S.A. 13:1B-15.52 was repealed by L.
1985, c. 398, § 18, effective January 2, 1986. See now N.J.S.A. 52:18A-196 et
seq.
   B.   Notice. The Planning Board shall give:
      (1)   Public notice of a hearing on adoption, revision or amendment of
the Master Plan or component parts thereof. Such notice shall be given by
publication in the official newspaper of the town, if there is one, or in a
newspaper of general circulation in the town at least 10 days prior to the date
of the hearing.
      (2)   Notice by personal service or certified mail to the clerk of an
adjoining municipality of all hearings on adoption, revision or amendment of
the Master Plan involving property situated within 200 feet of such adjoining
municipality at least 10 days prior to the date of any such hearing.
      (3)   Notice by personal service or certified mail to the Atlantic County
Planning Board and Pinelands Commission of all hearings on the adoption,
revision or amendment of the town Master Plan at least 10 days prior to the
date of the hearing, such notice to include a copy of any such proposed Master
Plan or any revision or amendment thereto; and the adoption, revision or
amendment of the Master Plan not more than 30 days after the date of such
adoption, revision or amendment. Such notice shall include a copy of the Master
Plan or revision or amendment thereto.
   C.   Contents of notice. All notices required to be given shall state the
date, time and place of the hearing, describe and specify design and/or
performance standards exceptions requested, if applicable, the nature of the
matters to be considered and identification of the property proposed for
development by street address, if any, or by reference to lot and block numbers
as shown on the current tax duplicate in the Municipal Tax Assessor's office
and the location and times at which any maps and documents for which approval
is sought are available as required by §
175-36C.
   D.   Periodic Master Plan reexamination.
      (1)   The Planning Board shall, at least every six years or more
frequently upon the request of the Town Council, generally reexamine the town
Master Plan and development regulations. The Planning Board shall prepare a
report on the findings of such reexamination, a copy of which shall be sent to
the County Planning Board and the municipal clerks of each adjoining
municipality. The six-year period shall commence with the adoption or
termination of the last general reexamination of such plan and regulations.
      (2)   Such report shall state:
         (a)   The major problems and objectives relating to land development
in the town at the time of such adoption, last revision or reexamination, if
any.
         (b)   The extent to which such problems and objectives have been
reduced or have increased subsequent to such date.
         (c)   The extent to which there have been significant changes in the
assumptions, policies and objectives forming the basis for such plan or
regulations as last revised, with particular regard to the density and
distribution of population and land uses, housing conditions, circulation,
conservation of natural resources, energy conservation and changes in state,
county and municipal policies and objectives.
         (d)   The specific changes recommended for such plan or regulations,
if any, including underlying objectives, policies and standards, or whether a
new plan or regulations should be prepared.
§ 175-12. Capital improvement program.
   A.   The Planning Board, at least every four years, shall prepare a program
of municipal capital improvement projects projected over a term of at least six
years and amendments thereto. Such program may encompass major projects being
currently undertaken or future projects to be undertaken with federal, state,
county and other public funds or under federal, state or county supervision.
The first year of such program shall, upon adoption by the Town Council,
constitute the capital budget of the town as required by N.J.S.A. 40A:4-43 et
seq.
   B.   The program shall classify projects in regard to the urgency and need
for realization and shall recommend a time sequence for their implementation.
It may also contain the estimated cost of each project and indicate probable
operating and maintenance costs and probable revenues, if any, as well as
existing sources of funds or the need for additional sources of funds for the
implementation and operation of each project. It shall, as far as possible, be
based on existing information in the possession of the departments and agencies
of the town and shall take into account public facility needs indicated by the
prospective development shown in the Master Plan of the town or as permitted by
other municipal land use controls.
   C.   In preparing the program, the Planning Board shall confer, in a manner
deemed appropriate by the Board, with the Mayor, the chief fiscal officer,
other town officials and agencies and the School Board or Boards. Any such
program shall include an estimate of the displacement of persons and
establishments caused by each recommended project.
   D.   In addition to any of the requirements in Subsection A of this section,
every town department, authority or agency shall, upon request of the Planning
Board, transmit to said Board a statement of all capital projects proposed to
be undertaken by such town department, authority or agency, during the term of
the program, for study, advice and recommendation by the Planning Board.
   E.   Whenever the Planning Board has prepared a capital improvement program
pursuant to this section, it shall recommend such program to the Town Council,
which may adopt such program with any modification approved by affirmative vote
of a majority of the full authorized membership of the Town Council and with
the reasons for said modification recorded in the minutes.
   F.   Notice.
      (1)   Notice by personal service or certified mail shall be made to the
Atlantic County Planning Board of the adoption, revision or amendment of the
town capital improvement program not more than 30 days after the date of such
adoption, revision or amendment. Any notice provided hereunder shall include a
copy of the proposed capital program or any proposed revision or amendment
thereto, as the case may be.
      (2)   Notice of hearings to be held pursuant to this section shall state
the date, time and place of the hearing and the nature of the matters to be
considered. Any notice by certified mail pursuant to this section shall be
deemed complete upon mailing.
   G.   Whenever the Planning Board shall have adopted any portion of the
Master Plan, the Town Council or other public agency having jurisdiction over
the subject matter, before taking action necessitating the expenditure of any
public funds incidental to the location, character or extent of such project,
shall refer the action involving such specific project to the Planning Board
for review and recommendation in conjunction with such Master Plan and shall
not act thereon without such recommendation or until 45 days have elapsed after
such reference without receiving such recommendation. This requirement shall
apply to action by a housing, parking, highway, special district or other
authority, redevelopment agency, school board or other similar public agency,
state, county or municipal.
ARTICLE IV. Planning Board; Preservation Board
§ 175-13. Establishment; membership.
   There is hereby established pursuant to N.J.S.A. 40:55D-23 et seq., in the
Town of Hammonton, a Planning Board of nine members consisting of the following
four classes:
   A.   Class I: The Mayor.
   B.   Class II: One of the officials of the municipality other than a member
of the governing body, to be appointed by the Mayor, provided that if there is
an Environmental Commission, the member of the Environmental Commission who is
also a member of the Planning Board, as required by Section 1 of P.L. 1968, c.
245 (N.J.S.A. 40:56A-1), shall be deemed to be the Class II Planning Board
member for purposes of this chapter in the event that there is among the Class
IV or alternate members of the Planning Board both a member of the Zoning Board
of Adjustment and a member of the Board of Education.
   C.   Class III: A member of the governing body, to be appointed by the
governing body.
   D.   Class IV: Six other citizens of the municipality to be appointed by the
Mayor. The members of Class IV shall hold no other municipal office except as
stated. One member of the Board of Education and/or one member of the Zoning
Board of Adjustment may be a Class IV member of the Planning Board. The member
of the Environmental Commission who is also a member of the Planning Board
shall be a Class IV Planning Board member, unless there is among the Class IV
or alternate members of the Planning Board both a member of the Zoning Board of
Adjustment and a member of the Board of Education, in which case, the member
common to the Planning Board and Municipal Environmental Commission shall be
deemed a Class II member of the Planning Board.
§ 175-14. Terms of members; vacancies; removal.
   The term of the member composing Class I shall correspond to his official
tenure. The terms of the members composing Class II and Class III shall be for
one year or terminate at the completion of their respective terms of office,
whichever occurs first, except for a Class II member who is also a member of
the Environmental Commission. The term of a Class II or Class IV member who is
also a member of the Environmental Commission shall be for three years or
terminate at the completion of his term of office as a member of the
Environmental Commission, whichever occurs first. The term of a Class IV member
who is also a member of the Board of Adjustment or Board of Education shall
terminate whenever he is no longer a member of such other body or at the
completion of his Class IV term, whichever occurs first. The terms of all Class
IV members first appointed under this chapter shall be so determined that, to
the greatest practicable extent, the expiration of such terms shall be
distributed evenly over the first four years after their appointment, provided
that the initial Class IV term of no member shall exceed four years.
Thereafter, the Class IV term of each such member shall be four years. If a
vacancy in any class shall occur otherwise than by expiration of the Planning
Board term, it shall be filled by appointment, as above provided, for the
unexpired term. No member of the Planning Board shall be permitted to act on
any matter in which he has, either directly or indirectly, any personal or
financial interest. Any member other than a Class I member, after a public
hearing if he requests one, may be removed by the governing body for cause.
Nothing in this chapter shall, however, be construed to affect the term of any
present member of the Planning Board, all of whom shall continue in office
until the completion of the term for which they were appointed.
§ 175-15. Voting by absent members.
   A member of the Board who was absent from one or more of the meetings at
which a hearing was held shall be eligible to vote on the matter upon which the
hearing was conducted, notwithstanding his absence from one or more of the
meetings; provided, however, that such Board member has available to him the
transcript or recording of the hearing from which he was absent and certifies,
in writing, to the Board that he has read such transcript or listened to such
recording.
§ 175-16. Alternate members.
[Amended 1-22-2018 by Ord. No. 001-2018]
   A.   Alternate members shall be appointed by the Mayor and shall meet the
qualifications of Class IV members. Alternate members shall be designated at
the time of appointment by the Mayor as "Alternate No. 1", "Alternate No. 2",
"Alternate No. 3", and "Alternate No. 4." The terms of the alternate members
shall be for two years, except that the terms of the alternate members shall be
such that the term of not more than two alternate members shall expire in any
one year; provided, however, that in no instance shall the terms of the
alternate members first appointed exceed two years. A vacancy occurring
otherwise than by expiration of term shall be filled by the Mayor for the
unexpired term only.
   B.   No alternate member shall be permitted to act on any matter in which he
has, either directly or indirectly, any personal or financial interest. An
alternate member may, after public hearing if he requests one, be removed by
the governing body for cause.
   C.   Alternate members may participate in discussions of the proceedings but
may not vote, except in the absence or disqualification of a regular member of
any class. A vote shall not be delayed in order that a regular member may vote
instead of an alternate member. In the event that a choice must be made as to
which alternate member is to vote, the alternate members shall be chosen
sequentially by their designated number.
§ 175-17. Officers; other staff and services.
   The Planning Board shall elect a Chairman and Vice Chairman from the members
of Class IV and select a Secretary, who may or may not be a member of the
Planning Board or a municipal employee, and create and fill such other offices
as established by ordinance. It may employ or contract for and fix the
compensation of legal counsel other than the Town Attorney, a planning
consultant, a professional engineer and other staff and services as it may deem
necessary, not exceeding, exclusive of gifts or grants, the amount appropriated
by the Town Council for its use.
§ 175-18. Rules and regulations.
   The Planning Board shall adopt and may amend reasonable rules and
regulations, not inconsistent with this chapter or with any applicable
ordinance, for the administration of its functions, powers and duties and shall
furnish a copy thereof to any person upon request and may charge a reasonable
fee for such copy. Copies of all such rules and regulations and amendments
thereto shall be maintained in the office of the administrative officer.
§ 175-19. Powers and duties.
   The Planning Board shall have the following powers and duties:
   A.   To make and adopt and from time to time amend a Master Plan for the
physical development of the Town of Hammonton in accordance with the provisions
of §
175-11 of this chapter. (See N.J.S.A. 40:55D-28.)
   B.   To administer the provisions of the Land Development Ordinance of the
Town of Hammonton in accordance with the provisions of said ordinances and the
Municipal Land Use Law of 1975 (N.J.S.A. 40:55D-1 et seq.), including but not
limited to subdivision control, site plan review and zoning district
regulations including conditional uses.
   C.   To participate in the preparation and review of programs or plans
required by state or federal law or regulations.
   D.   To assemble data on a continuing basis as part of a continuous planning
process.
   E.   To prepare, at least every four years, a program of municipal capital
improvement projects projected over a term of six years, and amendments
thereto, and recommend same to the governing body; said program to be in
accordance with the provisions of §
175-12 of this chapter (N.J.S.A. 40:55D-29 and 55D-30).
   F.   To perform advisory duties on the following referrals:
      (1)   Prior to the adoption of a development regulation, revision or
amendment thereto, the Planning Board shall make and transmit to the Town
Council, within 35 days after referral, a report including recommendations
concerning the proposed development regulation, revision or amendment. The Town
Council, when considering the adoption of a development regulation, revision or
amendment thereto, shall review the report of the Planning Board and may
disapprove or change any recommendation by a vote of a majority of its full
authorized membership and shall record in its minutes the reasons for not
following such recommendations, Failure of the Planning Board to transmit its
report within the thirty-five-day period provided herein shall relieve the Town
Council from the requirements of this subsection in regard to the proposed
development regulation, revision or amendment thereto referred to the Planning
Board.
      (2)   To review and advise as to any matter or class of matters to the
Planning Board before final action thereon by a town body or town officer
having final authority thereon. Such reference shall not extend the time for
action by the referring body, whether or not the Planning Board has submitted
its report. Whenever the Planning Board shall have made a recommendation
regarding a matter authorized by this chapter to another town body, such
recommendation may be rejected only by a majority of the full authorized
membership of such other body.
      (3)   Prior to the hearing on adoption of a zoning ordinance or any
amendments thereto, the Town Council shall refer any such proposed ordinance or
amendment thereto to the Planning Board (N.J.S.A. 40:55D-26a and 55D-64.)
      (4)   Whenever the Planning Board shall have adopted any portion of the
Master Plan, the Town Council or other public agency having jurisdiction over
the subject matter, before taking action necessitating the expenditure of any
public funds incidental to the location, character or extent of such project,
shall refer the action involving such specific project to the Planning Board
for review and recommendation in conjunction with such Master Plan and shall
not act thereon without such recommendation or until 45 days have elapsed after
such reference without receiving such recommendation. This requirement shall
apply to action by a housing, parking, highway, special district or other
authority, redevelopment agency, school board or other similar public agency,
state, county or municipal.
      (5)   Prior to the hearing on the adoption of any official map or any
amendment thereto, the Town Council shall refer the proposed official map or
amendment to the Planning Board pursuant to Subsection F(1) of this section.
(See N.J.S.A. 40:55D-26a.) This review shall take into account the provisions
of §
175-11 of this chapter. (See N.J.S.A. 40:55D-32.)
   G.   Variances.
      (1)   When reviewing applications for approval of subdivision plats, site
plans or conditional uses, to grant to the same extent and subject to the same
restrictions as the Zoning Board of Adjustment:
         (a)   Variances pursuant to §
175-28C of this chapter. (See N.J.S.A. 40:55D-70c.)
         (b)   To direct the issuance of a permit for a building and/or
structure in the bed of a mapped street or public drainage way, flood control
basin or public area reserved in accordance with N.J.S.A. 40:55D-32 and
N.J.S.A. 40:55D-34.
         (c)   To direct the issuance of a permit for a building or structure
not related to a street. (See N.J.S.A. 40:55D-36.)
      (2)   Whenever relief is requested pursuant to this subsection, notice of
a hearing on the application for development shall include reference to the
request for a variance or direction for issuance of a permit, as the case may
be.
   H.   Subdivision, conditional use and site plan approval.
      (1)   When acting upon applications for preliminary or minor subdivision
approval or preliminary site plan approval, to grant such exceptions from the
design and performance standards in Article XII as may be reasonable and within
the general purpose and intent of the provisions for review and approval of
subdivisions and/or site plans if the literal enforcement of one or more
provisions is impracticable or will exact undue hardship because of peculiar
conditions pertaining to the land in question.
      (2)   To review and approve or deny conditional uses or site plans
simultaneously with review for subdivision approval without the developer being
required to make further application to the Planning Board or the Planning
Board being required to hold further hearings. The longest time period for
action by the Planning Board, whether it be for subdivision, conditional use or
site plan approval, shall apply. Whenever approval of a conditional use is
requested by the developer pursuant to this subsection, notice of the hearing
on the plat shall include reference to the request for such conditional use.
   I.   To act as Preservation Board in reference to §
175-21.
   J.   Zoning Board of Adjustment Powers.
[Added 1-22-2018 by Ord. No. 001-2018]
      (1)   Pursuant to N.J.S.A. 40:55D - 25(c), the Planning Board shall
exercise, to the same extent and subject to the same restrictions, all powers
of a Zoning Board of Adjustment; but Class I and Class III members, shall not
participate in the consideration of applications for development which involve
relief pursuant to N.J.S.A. 40:55D - 70(d).
      (2)   The Planning Board shall have all of the powers and duties of the
Zoning Board of Adjustment set forth in Ordinance §
175-28, §
175-29 and §
175-30.
      (3)   All references in the Code of the Town of Hammonton to the Zoning
Board of Adjustment shall mean and refer to the Town of Hammonton Planning
Board.
§ 175-20. Time limit for decisions.
   A.   Minor subdivisions and minor site plans. Minor subdivision approvals
and minor site plan approvals shall be granted or denied within 45 days of the
date of submission of a complete application to the Planning Board or within
such further time as may be consented to by the applicant. Failure of the Board
to act within the period prescribed shall constitute approval and a certificate
of the Planning Board Secretary as to the failure of the Board to act shall be
issued on request of the applicant, and it shall be sufficient in lieu of the
written endorsement or other evidence of approval herein required and shall be
accepted by the county recording office for purposes of filing subdivision
plats. Approval of a minor subdivision shall expire 190 days from the date of
Planning Board approval, unless within such period a plat in conformity with
such subdivision approval and the provisions of the Map Filing Law Editor's
Note: See N.J.S.A. 46:23-9.9 et seq. , or a deed clearly describing the
approved minor subdivision is filed by the developer with the county recording
officer, the Municipal Engineer and the Municipal Tax Assessor.
   B.   Major subdivisions preliminary approval.
      (1)   Upon submission of a complete application for a subdivision of 10
or fewer lots, the Planning Board shall grant or deny preliminary approval
within 45 days of the date of such submission or with such further time as may
be consented to by the developer. Upon submission of a complete application for
a subdivision of more than 10 lots, the Planning Board shall grant or deny
preliminary approval within 95 days of the date of such submission or within
such further time as may be consented to by the developer. Otherwise, the
Planning Board shall be deemed to have granted preliminary approval for either
size subdivision.
      (2)   Failure of the Board to act within the period prescribed shall
constitute approval, and a certificate of the Planning Board Secretary as to
the failure of the Board to act shall be issued on request of the applicant;
and it shall be sufficient in lieu of the written endorsement or other evidence
of approval herein required and shall be accepted by the county recording
officer for purposes of filing subdivision plats.
   C.   Major subdivision final approval.
      (1)   Final subdivision approval shall be granted or denied within 45
days of submission of a complete application or within such further time as may
be consented to by the applicant. Final approval of a major subdivision shall
expire 95 days from the date of signing of the plat, unless within such period
the plat shall have been duly filed by the developer with the county recording
officer. The Planning Board may, for good cause shown, extend the period for
recording for an additional period not to exceed 190 days from the date of the
signing of the plat. Failure of the Planning Board to act within the period
prescribed shall constitute final approval, and a certificate of the Planning
Board Secretary as to the failure of the Planning Board to act shall be issued
on request of the applicant; and it shall be sufficient in lieu of the written
endorsement or other evidence of approval herein required and shall be so
accepted by the County Clerk for purposes of filing subdivision plats.
      (2)   Whenever review or approval of the application by the County
Planning Board is required by N.J.S.A. 40:27-6.3, in the case of a subdivision,
the Town Planning Board shall condition any approval that it grants upon timely
receipt of a favorable report on the application by the County Planning Board
or approval by the County Planning Board by its failure to report thereon
within the required time period.
   D.   Preliminary site plan approval. Upon the submission of a complete
application for a site plan for 10 acres of land or less and 10 dwelling units
or less, the Planning Board shall grant or deny preliminary approval within 45
days of the date of such submission or within such further time as may be
consented to by the developer. Upon the submission of a complete application
for a site plan of more than 10 acres or more than 10 dwelling units, the
Planning Board shall grant or deny preliminary approval within 95 days of the
date of such submission or within such further time as may be consented to by
the developer. Otherwise, the Planning Board shall be deemed to have granted
preliminary approval of the site plan.
   E.   Final site plan approval.
      (1)   Final approval shall be granted or denied within 45 days after
submission of a complete application or within such further time as may be
consented to by the applicant. Failure of the Planning Board to act within the
period prescribed shall constitute final approval, and a certificate of the
Planning Board Secretary as to the failure of the Planning Board to act shall
be issued on request of the applicant; and it shall be sufficient in lieu of
the written endorsement or other evidence of approval herein required and shall
be so accepted by the County Clerk for purposes of filing subdivision plats.
      (2)   Whenever review or approval of the application by the County
Planning Board is required by N.J.S.A. 40:27-6.6, the Planning Board shall
condition any approval that it grants upon timely receipt of a favorable report
on the application by the County Planning Board or approval by the County
Planning Board by its failure to report thereon within the required time
period.
   F.   Conditional use approval.
      (1)   Approval shall be granted or denied within 95 days of submission of
a complete application by a developer to the Planning Board or within such
further time as may be consented to by the applicant.
      (2)   The review by the Planning Board of a conditional use application
shall include any required site plan review pursuant to this chapter. (See
N.J.S.A. 40:55D-67.) The time period for action by the Planning Board on
conditional uses pursuant to this section shall apply to such site plan review.
Failure of the Planning Board to act within the period prescribed shall
constitute approval of the application, and a certificate of the Planning Board
Secretary as to the failure of the Planning Board to act shall be issued on
request of the applicant; and it shall be sufficient in lieu of the written
endorsement or other evidence of approval, herein required, and shall be so
accepted by the county recording officer for purposes of filing subdivision
plats.
      (3)   Whenever review or approval of the application by the County
Planning Board is required by N.J.S.A. 40:27-6.3, in the case of a subdivision,
or N.J.S.A. 40:27-6.6, in the case of a site plan, the Town Planning Board
shall condition any approval that it grants upon timely receipt of a favorable
report on the application by the County Planning Board or approval by the
County Planning Board by its failure to report thereon within the required time
period.
   G.   Ancillary powers. Whenever the Planning Board is called upon to
exercise its powers as set forth in §
175-19G of this chapter, the Planning Board shall grant or deny approval of the
application within 95 days after submission by the developer of a complete
application or within such further time as may be consented to by the
applicant. Failure of the Planning Board to act within the period prescribed
shall constitute approval of the application, and a certificate of the Planning
Board Secretary as to the failure of the Planning Board to act shall be issued
on request of the applicant.
   H.   Pinelands Commission review. Notwithstanding the provisions of this
section, where any approval results from the failure of the Planning Board to
act within the prescribed period, the applicant shall provide notice to the
Pinelands Commission, and the permit shall not become effective until the
requisite time period for Commission review and action has lapsed in accordance
with §
175-40D and E.
§ 175-21. Certificate of appropriateness.
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989]
   A.   The Planning Board shall exercise all the powers and perform all the
duties set forth in N.J.A.C. 7:50-6.153(a).
   B.   Authority to issue certificates of appropriateness.
      (1)   The Planning Board shall issue all certificates of appropriateness
except as specified in Subsection B(2) below.
      (2)   The Zoning Board of Adjustment shall issue certificates of
appropriateness for those applications for development which it is otherwise
empowered to review.
   C.   Certificates of appropriateness shall be required for the following:
      (1)   Construction, encroachment upon, alteration, remodeling, removal,
disturbance, demolition or isolation of any resource designated by the
Pinelands Commission pursuant to N.J.A.C. 7:50-6.154; and
      (2)   Development not otherwise exempted from review pursuant to §
175-60A(2) of this chapter where a significant resource has been identified
pursuant to §
175-60A of this chapter.
   D.   Certificates of appropriateness shall be issued in accordance with §
175-107 of this chapter.
ARTICLE V. Zoning Board of Adjustment
§ 175-22. Establishment.
[Amended 1-22-2018 by Ord. No. 001-2018]
   The Zoning Board of Adjustment previously established pursuant to N.J.S.A.
40:55D - 69, et seq., consisting of seven residents of the Town of Hammonton
appointed by the Town Council is hereby abolished. All references in the
Hammonton Code to the Zoning Board of Adjustment shall mean and refer to the
Town of Hammonton Planning Board.
§ 175-23. (Reserved) 13.1
13.1.   Editor's Note: Former § 175-23, Membership; terms, was repealed 1-22-
2018 by Ord. No. 001-2018.
§ 175-24. Voting by absent members.
   A member of the Board who was absent from one or more of the meetings at
which a hearing was held shall be eligible to vote on the matter upon which the
hearing was conducted, notwithstanding his absence from one or more of the
meetings; provided, however, that such Board member has available to him the
transcript or recording of the meeting from which he was absent and certifies,
in writing, to the Board that he has read such transcript or listened to such
recording.
§ 175-25. (Reserved) 13.2 
13.2.   Editor's Note: Former § 175-25, Alternate members, as amended, was
repealed 1-22-2018 by Ord. No. 001-2018.
§ 175-26. Officers; other staff and services.
   A.   The Zoning Board of Adjustment shall elect a Chairman and Vice Chairman
from its members and shall select a Secretary, who may be a Board member or a
municipal employee.
   B.   The Zoning Board of Adjustment may employ or contract for and fix the
compensation of legal counsel, other than the Municipal Attorney, a licensed
planning consultant and/or a licensed professional engineer and other staff and
services as it shall deem necessary, not exceeding, exclusive of gifts or
grants, the amount appropriated by the Town Council for its use.
§ 175-27. Rules and regulations.
   The Zoning Board of Adjustment shall adopt and may amend reasonable rules
and regulations, not inconsistent with any applicable provisions of this
chapter, for the administration of its functions, powers and duties and shall
furnish a copy thereof to any person upon request and may charge a reasonable
fee for such copy. Copies of all such rules and regulations and amendments
thereto shall be maintained in the office of the administrative officer. (See
N.J.S.A. 40:55D-8a.)
§ 175-28. General powers and duties.
   A.   The Zoning Board of Adjustment shall have the power to:
      (1)   Hear and decide appeals where it is alleged by the appellant that
there is an error in any order, requirement, decision or refusal made by the
Zoning Officer based on or made in the enforcement of Article XIII of this
chapter.
      (2)   Hear and decide, in accordance with the provisions of the zoning
articles of this chapter, requests for interpretation of the Zoning Map or
zoning article of this chapter or for decisions upon other special questions
upon which such Board is authorized to pass by the zoning provisions of this
chapter.
      (3)   Where, by reason of exceptional narrowness, shallowness or shape of
a specific piece of property, by reason of exceptional topographic conditions
or by reason of other extraordinary and exceptional situation or condition of
such piece of property, the strict application of any regulation pursuant to
Article XIII of this chapter would result in peculiar and exceptional practical
difficulties to or exceptional and undue hardship upon the developer of such
property, grant, upon an application or an appeal relating to such property, a
variance from such strict application of such regulation so as to relieve such
difficulties or hardship, including a variance for a conditional use; provided,
however, that no variance shall be granted under this subsection to allow a
structure or use in a district restricted against such structure or use; and
provided further that the proposed development does not require approval by the
Planning Board of a subdivision, site plan or conditional use in conjunction
with which the Planning Board shall review a request for a variance pursuant to
this chapter.
      (4)   In particular cases and for special reasons, grant a variance to
allow departure from regulations pursuant to Article XIII of this chapter,
including, but not limited to, allowing a structure or use in a district
restricted against such structure or use, but only by affirmative vote of at
least five members of the Zoning Board of Adjustment.
      (5)   Any municipal variance approval which grants relief from the
density or lot area requirements for a residential or principal nonresidential
use in the RR, R-1, R-2, R-3, B-2 or MD Districts shall require that Pinelands
development credits be used for all dwelling units or lots in excess of that
permitted without the variance.
[Added 6-28-1993 by Ord. No. 13-1993; amended 7-28-1997 by Ord. No. 10-1997]
   B.   No variance or other relief may be granted under the terms of this
section unless such variance or other relief can be granted without substantial
detriment to the public good and will not substantially impair the intent and
purpose of the Master Plan and Zoning Ordinance. An application under this
section may be referred to any appropriate person or agency, including the
Planning Board pursuant to §
175-19F of this chapter, for its report, provided that such reference shall not
extend the period of time within which the Zoning Board of Adjustment shall
act.
   C.   In exercising the above-mentioned power, the Zoning Board of Adjustment
may, in conformity with the provisions of N.J.S.A. 40:55D-1 et seq. or
amendments thereto or subsequent statutes applying or the Pinelands
Comprehensive Management Plan, reverse or affirm, wholly or in part, or may
modify the action, order, requirement, decision, interpretation or
determination appealed from and make such other requirement, decision or
determination as ought to be made and, to that end, have all powers of the
official from whom the appeal was taken.
§ 175-29. Additional powers.
   The Zoning Board of Adjustment shall, in addition to the powers specified in
§
175-28 of this article, have power given by law to:
   A.   Upon application of the requirements of §§
175-26,
175-28B,
175-30 and
175-31A(1), F and G of this chapter (N.J.S.A. 40:55D-71 through 75):
      (1)   Direct issuance of a permit for a building or structure in the bed
of a mapped street or public drainage way, flood control basin or public area
reserved on the Official Map. (See N.J.S.A. 40:55D-32 and 55D-34.)
      (2)   Direct issuance of a permit for a building or structure not related
to a street (N.J.S.A. 40:55D-36).
   B.   Review of applications for development.
      (1)   Grant, to the same extent and subject to the same restrictions as
the Planning Board, subdivision, site plan or conditional use approval pursuant
to Article IV of this chapter, but only when the proposed development requires
approval by the Board of Adjustment of a variance pursuant to §
175-28A(4) of this chapter (N.J.S.A. 40:55D-70d). The developer may elect to
submit a separate application requesting approval of the variance and a
subsequent application for any required approval of a subdivision, site plan or
conditional use. The separate approval of the variance shall be conditioned
upon the granting of all required subsequent approvals by the Zoning Board of
Adjustment. No such subsequent approval shall be granted unless such approval
can be granted without substantial detriment to the public good and without
substantial impairment of the intent and purpose of the Master Plan and Zoning
Ordinance. The number of votes of Board members required to grant any such
subsequent approval shall be as otherwise provided in this act for the approval
in question, and the special vote pursuant to the aforesaid §
175-28A(4) shall not be required.
      (2)   Whenever the Zoning Board of Adjustment considers an application
for development in accordance with the provisions of Subsection B(1) of the
above, refer said application, whether for subdivision, site plan or
conditional use approval, to the Planning Board in accordance with the
provisions of §§
175-19F(2) and
175-31E of this chapter.
§ 175-30. Appeals and applications.
   A.   Appeals to the Zoning Board of Adjustment may be taken by any
interested party affected by a decision of the Zoning Officer of the town based
on or made in the enforcement of the Zoning Ordinance or Official Map. Such
appeal shall be taken within 20 days by filing a notice of appeal with the
Zoning Officer specifying the grounds of such appeal. The officer from whom the
appeal is taken shall immediately transmit to the Zoning Board of Adjustment
all the papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was
taken.
   B.   A developer may file an application for development with the Zoning
Board of Adjustment for action under any of its powers without prior
application to the Zoning Officer or any other administrative officer.
§ 175-31. Time limit for decisions.
   A.   General time limit.
      (1)   The Zoning Board of Adjustment shall render its decision not later
than 120 days after the date an appeal is taken from the decision of the Zoning
Officer or other administrative officer or the submission of a complete
application for development to the Zoning Board of Adjustment pursuant to the
provisions of §
175-40B of this chapter. [See N.J.S.A. 40:55D-72b.]
      (2)   Failure of the Zoning Board of Adjustment to render a decision
within such one-hundred-twenty-day period or within such further time as may be
consented to by the applicant shall constitute a decision favorable to the
applicant.
   B.   Applications for development.
      (1)   Whenever an application for development requests relief pursuant to
§
175-29B, the Zoning Board of Adjustment shall grant or deny approval of the
application within 120 days after submission by a developer of a complete
application to the administrative officer or within such further time as may he
consented to by the applicant. In the event that the developer elects to submit
separate consecutive applications, the aforesaid time period shall apply to the
application for approval of the variance. The period for granting or denying
any subsequent approval shall be as otherwise provided in this chapter. (See
N.J.S.A. 40:55D-1 et seq.)
      (2)   Failure of the Zoning Board of Adjustment to act within the period
prescribed shall constitute approval of the application, and a certificate of
the Board Secretary as to the failure of the Zoning Board of Adjustment to act
shall be issued on request of the applicant. Said certificate shall be
sufficient in lieu of the written endorsement or other evidence of approval
herein required and shall be so accepted by the county recording officer for
purposes of filing subdivision plats.
   C.   Whenever review or approval by the County Planning Board of the
application is required in the case of a subdivision (N.J.S.A. 40:27-6.3) or in
the case of a site plan (N.J.S.A. 40:27-6.6), the Zoning Board of Adjustment
shall condition any approval that it grants upon timely receipt of a favorable
report on the application by the County Planning Board or by its failure to
report thereon within the required time.
   D.   Local approvals granted as a result of the approving authority's
failure to act within the prescribed time period shall not become effective
until the requirements of §
175-40D and E are met.
   E.   An application to the Zoning Board of Adjustment made in accordance
with the powers delegated to said Board in accordance with this chapter may be
referred to any appropriate person or agency for its report in addition to the
referral of all such applications to the Planning Board. Such reference shall
not extend the period of time within which the Zoning Board of Adjustment shall
act. The Zoning Board of Adjustment shall set a deadline of not less than 100
days for receipt of a report from the person or agency referred to and from the
Planning Board. The Zoning Board of Adjustment shall take no action on the
application until either receipt of requested report or the expiration of the
aforementioned time period.
      (1)   Should the Zoning Board of Adjustment decide not to follow the
recommendation of the Planning Board, it may do so only by a majority vote of
its full authorized membership, and it shall set forth the reason for its
decision in writing as part of its deciding resolution.
      (2)   Copies of said deciding resolution shall be sent to all referral
agencies, boards or persons.
   F.   An appeal to the Zoning Board of Adjustment shall stay all proceedings
in furtherance of the action in respect to which the decision appealed from was
made, unless the Zoning Officer, from whose action the appeal is taken,
certifies to the Zoning Board of Adjustment, after the notice of appeal shall
have been filed with him, that by reason of facts stated in his certification a
stay would, in his opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property. In such
case, proceedings shall not be stayed other than by an order of the Superior
Court upon notice to the officer from whom the appeal is taken and on due cause
shown.
   G.   Inquiries as to whether a proposed land use is permissible under the
Zoning Ordinance or Official Zoning Map shall be submitted in writing to the
Board of Adjustment, which shall issue a written response within 45 days after
the next meeting following receipt of the request or within such additional
time as may be consented to by the inquirer.
ARTICLE VI. Provisions Applicable to Both Planning Board and Zoning Board of
Adjustment
§ 175-32. Conflicts of interest.
   No member of the Planning Board or Zoning Board of Adjustment shall act on
any matter in which he or she has, either directly or indirectly, any personal
or financial interest. Whenever any such member shall disqualify himself or
herself from acting on a particular matter, he or she shall not continue to sit
with the board on the hearing of such matter nor participate in any discussion
or decision relating thereto as a member of the board.
§ 175-33. Meetings.
   A.   Meetings of both the Planning Board and Zoning Board of Adjustment
shall be scheduled no less often than once a month, and any meeting so
scheduled shall be held as scheduled, unless canceled for lack of applications
for development to process. Both boards shall by resolution adopt rules to fix
the time and place for holding its regular meetings to conduct business for
which each board is authorized.
   B.   Special meetings may be called by the Chairman or on the request of any
two board members and shall be held on notice to its members and the public in
accordance with all applicable legal requirements.
   C.   No action shall be taken at any meeting without a quorum being present.
   D.   All action shall be taken by majority vote of the members of the board
present, except as otherwise required by any provision of this chapter and of
N.J.S.A. 40:55D-1 et seq.
   E.   All regular meetings and all special meetings shall be open to the
public. Notice of all such meetings shall be given in accordance with the
requirements of the Open Public Meetings Act, Chapter 231 of the Laws of New
Jersey 1975 Editor's Note: See N.J.S.A. 10:4-6 et seq. and as may be further
required by any town regulations. An executive session for the purpose of
discussing and studying any matters to come before either board shall not be
deemed a regular or special meeting within the provisions of N.J.S.A. 40:55D-
9b.
§ 175-34. Minutes.
   Minutes of every regular or special meeting shall be kept and shall include
the names of the persons appearing and addressing the board and of the persons
appearing by attorney, the action taken by the board, the findings, if any,
made by it and reasons therefor. The minutes shall thereafter be made available
for public inspection during normal business hours at the office of the Board
Secretary. Any interested party shall have the right to compel production of
the minutes for use as evidence in any legal proceeding concerning the subject
matter of such minutes. Such interested party may be charged a fee for
reproduction of the minutes for his use as provided for in the rules of the
board and in the appropriate town ordinance.
§ 175-35. Twenty-one-day requirement.
[Amended 3-26-2001 by Ord. No. 13-2001]
   A.   No application shall be placed upon the agenda of any Planning Board or
Zoning Board of Adjustment of the Town of Hammonton unless a complete
application is submitted at least 21 days prior to the regularly scheduled
meeting of the respective Boards.
   B.   For the purpose of this section, a complete application shall be
defined as a fully executed and completed application forms, maps, surveys,
site plans, subdivision plans, environmental impact statements, traffic
surveys, drainage maps and calculations and any other materials upon which the
application will be considered.
§ 175-36. Hearings.
   A.   Requirement. Each Board shall hold a hearing on each of its respective
applications for development and, in the case of the Planning Board, for the
adoption, revision or any amendment to the Master Plan.
   B.   Rules. The Planning Board and Zoning Board of Adjustment may make rules
governing the conduct of hearings before such bodies, which rules shall not be
inconsistent with the provisions of the Municipal Land Use Law (N.J.S.A. 40:
55D-1 et seq.) or of this chapter.
   C.   Twenty-one-day requirement.
[Amended 3-26-2001 by Ord. No. 13-2001]
      (1)   No application shall be placed upon the agenda of any Planning
Board or Zoning Board of Adjustment of the Town of Hammonton unless a complete
application is submitted at least 21 days prior to the regularly scheduled
meeting of the respective Boards.
      (2)   For the purpose of this subsection, a complete application shall be
defined as a fully executed and completed application forms, maps, surveys,
site plans, subdivision plans, environmental impact statements, traffic
surveys, drainage maps and calculations and any other materials upon which the
application will be considered.
   D.   Oaths. The officer presiding at the hearing or such person as he may
designate shall have power to administer oaths and issue subpoenas to compel
the attendance of witnesses and the production of relevant evidence, including
witnesses and documents presented by the parties, and the provisions of the
County and Municipal Investigations Law (N.J.S.A. 2A:67A-1 et seq.) shall
apply.
   E.   Testimony. The testimony of all witnesses relating to an application
for development shall be taken under oath or affirmation by the presiding
officer, and the right of cross-examination shall be permitted to all
interested parties through their attorneys, if represented, or directly, if not
represented, subject to the discretion of the presiding officer and to
reasonable limitations as to time and number of witnesses.
   F.   Evidence. Technical rules of evidence shall not be applicable to the
hearing, but the Board may exclude irrelevant, immaterial or unduly repetitious
evidence.
   G.   Records. Each Board shall provide for the verbatim recording of the
proceedings by either stenographer, mechanical or electronic means at the
expense of the respective Board. The Board shall furnish a transcript or
duplicate recording in lieu thereof on request to any interested party at his
expense. The municipal agency, in furnishing a transcript of the proceedings to
an interested party at his expense, shall not charge such interested party more
than the maximum permitted in N.J.S.A. 2A:11-15. Editor's Note: N.J.S.A. 2A:11-
15 was repealed by L. 1991, c. 119, § 4, effective April 25, 1991. See now
N.J.S.A. 2B:7-4. Said transcript shall be certified, in writing, by the
transcriber to be accurate.
§ 175-37. Notification of Pinelands Commission.
   A.   Notice of any hearing, public meeting or other proceeding at which an
application for development is to be considered shall be given not less than
five days prior to such hearing, meeting or proceeding by the applicant to the
Pinelands Commission by mail or by delivery of same to the principal office of
the Commission. The notice shall be in such form as the Executive Director of
the Pinelands Commission shall, from time to time, specify; as a minimum, the
notice shall contain:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant.
      (2)   The docket number of the certificate of filing issued by the
Pinelands Commission and the date on which it was issued.
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989]
      (3)   The date, time and location of the meeting, hearing or other formal
proceeding.
      (4)   The name of the local permitting agency or representative thereof
which will be conducting the meeting, hearing or other formal proceeding.
      (5)   Any written reports or comments received by the local permitting
agency on the application for development which have not been previously
submitted to the Commission.
      (6)   The purpose for which the meeting, hearing or other formal
proceeding is to be held.
   B.   The applicant shall give notice to the Pinelands Commission of any
design, engineering or other changes made to an application previously filed
with a local approving authority. Any such notice shall be made within five
days of submission of such changes to the Board Secretary. Such notice shall be
in such form as the Executive Director of the Pinelands Commission shall
specify; but as a minimum, shall contain at least the information required
pursuant to §
175-60D(1) as applicable.
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989]
§ 175-38. Public notice requirements for hearings.
   A.   Public notice of a hearing on an application for development shall be
required, except as set forth herein.
   B.   No public notice of a hearing shall be required for the following
applications for development:
      (1)   Minor site plan review. The Board shall waive notice and public
hearing for an application for development upon the Board determining that the
application for development conforms to the definition of "minor site plan,"
provided that no variances or other waiver from design standards requiring
notice and public hearing are requested.
      (2)   Minor subdivisions. The Board shall waive notice and public hearing
for an application for development upon the Board determining that the
application for development conforms to the definition of "minor subdivisions,"
provided that no variances or other waiver from design standards requiring
notice and public hearing are requested.
      (3)   Final approval of site plans and major subdivisions.
   C.   Variance applications pursuant to §§
175-19G and
175-28A(2) and (3) shall require public notice when the variance request is
made as part of an application for development otherwise excepted from public
notice.
   D.   Public notice shall be required for preliminary major site plan
approval.
   E.   Whenever public notice of a hearing is required, notice shall be given
to the Pinelands Commission and as follows:
      (1)   Notice shall be given by the applicant to the owners of all real
property, as shown on the current tax duplicate, located within 200 feet in all
directions of the subject property, whether located within or without the town
in which the applicant's land is located. This requirement shall be deemed
satisfied by notice to the condominium association, in the case of any unit
owner whose unit has a unit above or below it, or horizontal property regime,
in the case of any co-owner whose apartment has an apartment above or below it.
Such notice shall be given by serving a copy thereof on the property owner as
shown on the said current tax duplicate or his agent in charge of the property
or mailing a copy thereof by certified mail to the property owner at his
address as shown on the said current tax duplicate.
      (2)   Notice to a partnership owner may be made by the applicant by
service upon any partner. Notice to a corporate owner may be made by the
applicant by service upon its president, a vice president, secretary or other
person authorized by appointment or by law to accept service on behalf of the
corporation. Notice to a condominium association, horizontal property regime,
community trust or homeowners' association, because of its ownership of common
elements or areas within 200 feet of the subject property, may be made in the
same manner as to a corporation without further notice to unit owners, co-
owners or homeowners on account of such common elements or areas.
      (3)   Notice of all hearings on application for development involving
property located within 200 feet of an adjoining municipality shall be given by
the applicant by personal service or certified mail to the clerk of such
municipality.
      (4)   Notice shall be given by personal service or certified mail by the
applicant to the County Planning Board of a hearing on an application for
development of property adjacent to an existing county road or proposed road
shown on the Official County Map or on the County Master Plan, adjoining other
county land or situated within 200 feet of a municipal boundary.
      (5)   Notice shall be given by the applicant by personal service or
certified mail to the Commissioner of Transportation of a hearing on an
application for development of property adjacent to a state highway.
      (6)   Notice shall be given by the applicant by personal service or
certified mail to the Director of the Division of State and Regional Planning
in the Department of Community Affairs of a hearing on an application for
development of property which exceeds 150 acres or 500 dwelling units. Such
notice shall include a copy of any maps or documents required to be on file
with the Town Clerk pursuant to §
175-36C.
      (7)   Public notice shall be given by the Board Secretary, and may be
given by the applicant, by publication in the official newspaper of the town at
least 10 days prior to the date of the scheduled meeting.
      (8)   All notices specified in this section shall be given at least 10
days prior to the date fixed for hearing. The applicant shall file an affidavit
of proof of service with the board holding the hearing on the application for
development.
      (9)   Any notice made by certified mail as hereinabove required shall be
deemed complete upon mailing.
      (10)   The notice stated in Subsection E(3), (4), (5) and (6) is not
required unless public notice is required pursuant to Subsections A, B, C and D
and notice is required pursuant to Subsection E(2) and (3).
      (11)   Contents of notice. All notices required to be given pursuant to
this chapter shall state the date, time and place of the hearing, describe and
specify design and/or performance standards exceptions requested, if
applicable, the nature of the matters to be considered and identification of
the property proposed for development by street address, if any, or by
reference to lot and block numbers as shown on the current tax duplicate in the
Municipal Tax Assessor's office and the location and times at which any maps
and documents for which approval is sought are available as required by §
175-36C.
§ 175-39. List of property owners.
   A.   Pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, the Tax Assessor shall,
within seven days after receipt of a request therefor and upon receipt of
payment of a fee of $0.25 per name or $10, whichever is greater, make and
certify a list from the current tax duplicate of names and addresses of owners
to whom the applicant is required to give notice pursuant to §
175-38E of this chapter. (See N.J.S.A. 40:55D-12b and N.J.S.A. 40:55D-12c.)
   B.   The applicant may rely upon the information contained in such list, and
failure to give notice to any owner not on the list shall not invalidate any
hearing or proceeding.
   C.   The Tax Assessor shall forward to the appropriate board a copy of the
certified list of property owners prior to the public hearing.
§ 175-40. Decisions.
   A.   Each decision on any application for development shall be set forth in
writing as a resolution of the board, which shall include findings of fact and
legal conclusion based thereon. The board shall vote to either approve or deny
the application. Failure of a motion approving an application for development
to receive the number of votes for approval shall be deemed an action denying
the application.
   B.   Resolution of memorialization.
      (1)   The Board may provide such written decision and findings and
conclusions either on the date of the meeting at which the Board takes to grant
or deny approval or, if the meeting at which such action is taken occurs within
the final 45 days of the applicable time period for rendering a decision on the
application for development, within 45 days of such meeting by the adoption of
a resolution of memorialization setting forth the decision and the findings and
conclusions of the Board thereon. An action resulting from the failure of a
motion to approve an application shall be memorialized by resolution as
provided above, notwithstanding the time at which such action occurs within the
applicable time period for rendering a decision on the application.
      (2)   The adoption of a resolution of memorialization pursuant to this
subsection shall not be construed to alter the applicable time period for
rendering a decision on the application for development. Such resolution shall
be adopted by a vote of a majority of the members of the Board who voted for
the action previously taken, and no other member shall vote thereon. The vote
on such resolution shall be deemed to be a memorialization of an action of the
Board and not to be an action of the municipal agency; except that failure to
adopt such a resolution within the forty-five-day period shall result in the
approval of the application for development, notwithstanding any prior action
taken thereon.
      (3)   Whenever a resolution of memorialization is adopted in accordance
with this subsection, the date of such adoption shall constitute the date of
the decision for purposes of the mailing, filing and publications as required
by this chapter.
   C.   A copy of the decision shall be mailed by the Board within 10 days of
the date of decision to the applicant or, if represented, to his attorney
without separate charge. A copy of the decision shall also be mailed to any
interested party and to all persons who have requested it and who have paid the
fee set forth in Article VII for such service. A copy of the decision shall
also be filed in the office of the Board Secretary, who shall make a copy
available for public inspection at such office during reasonable hours.
   D.   Notice of any determination with respect to an application shall be
given by the applicant to the Pinelands Commission within five days following
receipt by the applicant of such determination. Such notice shall be in a form
as the Executive Director of the Pinelands Commission shall specify; but such
notice shall, as a minimum, contain at least the information required pursuant
to §
175-60. These requirements shall not apply to those types of development set
forth in §
175-60A(2) of this chapter.
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989]
   E.   No development authorized pursuant to an approval of an application for
development shall commence until the review and notice and procedures of §
175-60 have been met.
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989]
   F.   No final subdivision or site plan approval shall be issued until the
requirements of §
175-60 are met.
§ 175-41. Publication of decisions.
   A.   A brief notice of each decision on any application for development
shall be published in the official newspaper of the municipality. The ten-day
period of time in which an appeal of the decision may be made shall run from
the first day of publication of the decision.
   B.   Publication of the above decision shall be done by the Board Secretary.
The applicant may also arrange for such publication if he desires.
§ 175-42. Proof of payment of taxes; corporate disclosure.
   A.   Every application for development submitted to the Planning Board or to
the Zoning Board of Adjustment shall be accompanied by proof that no taxes or
assessments for local improvements are due or delinquent on the property which
is the subject of such application. (See N.J.S.A. 40:55D-39 and 55D-65.)
   B.   A corporation or partnership applying to the Planning Board or the
Board of Adjustment for permission to subdivide a parcel of land into six or
more lots or applying for a variance to construct a multiple dwelling of 25 or
more family units or for approval of a site to be used for commercial purposes
shall list the names and addresses of all stockholders or individual partners
owning at least 10% of its stock of any class or at least 10% of the interest
in the partnership, as the case may be. (See N.J.S.A. 40:55D-48.1 et seq.)
   C.   If a corporation or partnership owns 10% or more of the stock of a
corporation or 10% or greater interest in a partnership, subject to disclosure
pursuant to Subsection B above, that corporation or partnership shall list the
names and addresses of its stockholders holding 10% or more of its stock or of
10% or greater interest in the partnership, as the case may be, and this
requirement shall be followed by every corporate stockholder or partner in a
partnership, until the names and addresses of the noncorporate stockholders and
individual partners exceeding the ten-percent ownership criterion established
above have been listed.
   D.   No board shall approve the application of any corporation or
partnership which does not comply with this chapter.
§ 175-43. Appeal to Town Council.
   A.   Any interested party may appeal to the Town Council a final decision of
the Zoning Board approving an application pursuant to §
175-28D to permit a use otherwise prohibited by this chapter. Such appeal shall
be made within 10 days of the date of publication of such final decision
pursuant to §
175-41 of this chapter. The appeal to the Town Council shall be made by serving
the Town Clerk in person or by certified mail with a notice of appeal
specifying the grounds therefor and the name and address of the appellant and
name and address of his attorney, if represented. Such appeal shall be decided
by the Town Council only upon the record established before the approving
board.
   B.   Notice of the meeting to review the record below shall be given by the
Town Council by personal service or certified mail to the appellant, to the
Pinelands Commission, to those entitled to notice of a decision pursuant to §
175-38 and to the board from which the appeal is taken at least 10 days prior
to the date of the meeting. The parties may submit oral and written argument on
the record at such meeting, and the Town Council shall provide for verbatim
recording and transcripts of such meetings pursuant to §
175-36.
   C.   The appellant shall, within five days of service of the above notice of
appeal, arrange for a transcript pursuant to §
175-36G for use by the Town Council and shall pay a deposit of $50 or the
estimated cost of such transcription, whichever is less, or shall, within 35
days of service of the notice of appeal, submit a transcript as otherwise
arranged to the Town Clerk.
   D.   The Town Council shall conclude a review of the record below not later
than 95 days from the date of publication of notice of the decision below
pursuant to §
175-41, unless the applicant consents in writing to an extension of such
period. Failure of the Town Council to hold a hearing and conclude a review of
the record below and to render a decision within such specified period shall
constitute a decision affirming the action of the board.
   E.   The Town Council may reverse, remand or affirm, wholly or in part, or
may modify the final decision of the Board.
   F.   The affirmative vote of a majority of the full authorized membership of
the Town Council shall be necessary to reverse, remand or modify any final
action of the Board.
   G.   An appeal to the Town Council shall stay all proceedings in furtherance
of the action in respect to which the decision appealed from was made unless
the Board from whose action the appeal is taken certifies to the Town Council,
after the notice of appeal shall have been filed with such Board, that by
reason of facts stated in the certificate, a stay would, in its opinion, cause
imminent peril to life or property. In such case, proceedings shall not be
stayed other than by an order of the Superior Court on application upon notice
to the Board from whom the appeal is taken and on good cause shown.
   H.   The Town Council shall mail a copy of the decision to the appellant or,
if represented, to his attorney and to the applicant without separate charge
and for the fee established in Article VII to any interested party who has
requested it not later than 10 days after the date of the decision. A brief
notice of the decision shall be published in the official newspaper of the
town. Such publication shall be arranged by the Town Clerk; the applicant may,
if so desired, also arrange for such publication. The appellant shall also pay
a fee as set forth in Article VII for publication by the Town Clerk.
   I.   Nothing herein shall be construed to restrict the right of any party to
obtain a review by any court of competent jurisdiction according to law. The
period of time in which an appeal to a court may be made shall run from the
first publication, whether arranged by the town or applicant.
   J.   The applicant shall give notice by mail to the Pinelands Commission and
to the Pinelands Executive Director of any design, engineering or other changes
made to an application as a result of an appeal to the Town Council. Such
notice shall be made by mail within five days of the receipt by the applicant
of the decision of the Town Council. Such notice shall contain the information
required in §
175-60D(1).
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989]
   K.   Notice of decisions shall be as specified in §
175-40A, D, E and F of this chapter.
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989]
§ 175-44. Information to be available to Environmental Commission.
   The Planning Board or the Zoning Board of Adjustment shall make available to
the Environmental Commission an informational copy of every application for
development submitted to either Board. Failure of the Planning Board or Zoning
Board of Adjustment to make such informational copy available to the
Environmental Commission shall not invalidate any hearing or proceeding.
§ 175-45. Certificate of subdivision approval.
   A.   Issuance. (See 40:55D-56.)
      (1)   A prospective purchaser, prospective mortgagee or any other person
interested in any land which either forms part of a subdivision or formed part
of such a subdivision as of August 1, 1973, may apply in writing to the
Secretary of the approving Board for the issuance of a certificate certifying
whether such subdivision has been approved by the Board. Such application shall
contain a diagram showing the location and dimensions of the land to be covered
by the certificate and the name of the owner thereof.
      (2)   The Board Secretary shall make and issue such certificate within 15
days after the receipt of such written application and the fees therefor. Said
Secretary shall keep a duplicate copy of each certificate, consecutively
numbered, including a statement of the fee charged, in a binder as a permanent
record of his office.
      (3)   Each such certificate shall be designated a "certificate as to
approval of subdivision of land" and shall certify:
         (a)   Whether there exists in the town a duly established Planning
Board.
         (b)   Whether there is an ordinance controlling subdivision of land
adopted under the authority of the Municipal Land Use Act (N.J.S.A. 40:55D-1 et
seq.).
         (c)   Whether the subdivision, as it relates to the land shown in the
application, has been approved by the Board and, if so, the date of such
approval.
         (d)   Any extension and the terms of any extensions showing that the
subdivision of which these lands are a part is a validly existing subdivision.
         (e)   Whether such subdivision, if the same has not been approved, is
statutorily exempt from the requirement of approval as provided in this
chapter.
   B.   Rights conferred by certificate.
      (1)   Any person who shall acquire for a valuable consideration an
interest in lands covered by a certificate as to approval of subdivision of
land and who shall rely upon the information therein contained shall hold such
interest free of any right, remedy or action which could be prosecuted or
maintained by the town pursuant to the provisions of Article XIV. (See N.J.S.A.
40:55D-55.)
      (2)   If the Board Secretary designated to issue any such certificate
fails to issue the same within 15 days after receipt of an application and fees
therefor, any person acquiring an interest in the lands described in such
application shall hold such interest free of any right, remedy or action which
could be prosecuted or maintained by the town pursuant to Article XIV. (See
N.J.S.A. 40:55D-55.)
      (3)   Any application for a certificate of subdivision approval addressed
to the Clerk of the town shall be deemed to be addressed to the proper
designated officer, and the town shall be bound thereby to the same extent as
though the same was addressed to the designated official.
ARTICLE VII. Fees
§ 175-46. Payment of fees; escrow; agreement.
   A.   The applicant shall at the time of filing a submission pay the
following nonrefundable fees to the Town of Hammonton. Proposals involving more
than one use or application type shall pay a fee equal to the sum of the fee
for each element. Fees shall be paid by cash or certified check.
   B.   The application fees stated below are nonrefundable. Escrow funds not
used may be returned to the applicant upon his request.
   C.   The escrow fees shall be paid to the board and shall be held in escrow
to cover the costs of professional services and board review, including
engineering and legal or other incidental costs.
   D.   The applicant, as a condition of submission, shall agree in writing to
pay all reasonable and necessary costs for professional review of the
application and plans for inspection of required improvements and for other
professional and secretarial services required by this application.
   E.   The applicant shall also agree that upon notification of the need for
additional escrow funds, said moneys will be immediately paid.
   F.   Form of agreement to be executed by applicant/developer. All
applications submitted to the Planning Board or Zoning Board of Adjustment of
the Town of Hammonton shall include a fully executed agreement to pay fees, the
form of which is as follows:
[Added 2-26-2001 by Ord. No. 1-2001]
   AGREEMENT TO PAY FEES
   THIS AGREEMENT, made and entered on this _________day of _____________,
20____ by and between the Town of Hammonton, a Municipal Corporation of the
State of New Jersey (hereinafter "TOWN") and (hereinafter "APPLICANT/
DEVELOPER") is made upon the following terms and conditions:
   1.   AGREEMENT TO PAY FEES: APPLICANT/DEVELOPER hereby covenants and agrees
to pay all charges and fees imposed by TOWN in connection with the Application
for Development filed contemporaneously herewith. Such fees include but are not
limited to application fees, attorney's review fees, environmental study review
fees, engineer's review fee, planner's review fees, court stenographer fees,
copy costs and postage.
   2.   ESCROW DEPOSIT: The TOWN hereby acknowledges receipt of $ , said sum
being a cash deposit to be placed in a Town escrow account to cover the cost of
the aforementioned review fees. Such sum shall be charged periodically as fees
and charges accrue, and the balance of the escrow sum, if any after all charges
and fees have been paid, shall be returned to APPLICANT/DEVELOPER.
   3.   ADDITIONAL PAYMENTS: The APPLICANT/DEVELOPER agrees to pay any
additional sum required to pay charges and fees not covered by the escrow
deposit within 15 days after receipt of billing by the TOWN. The APPLICANT/
DEVELOPER understands and agrees to pay such sum notwithstanding any dispute as
to the reasonableness of fees and charges. Payment shall not constitute a
waiver of the right to challenge the reasonableness of charges and fees as set
forth hereinbelow.
   4.   CONTEST OF REASONABLENESS: APPLICANT/DEVELOPER agrees that the
reasonableness of any fee or charge may be challenged by an appropriate legal
action brought within 45 days from the date that the APPLICANT/DEVELOPER escrow
deposit balance is returned or 45 days from the date the APPLICANT/DEVELOPER
receives notice that additional payments are requested to pay charges and fees
not covered by the escrow deposit. APPLICANT/DEVELOPER understands and agrees
that the aforesaid procedure shall be the sole and exclusive method of
challenging the reasonableness of charges and fees and hereby waives any longer
statute of limitations.
   5.   NOTICE: APPLICANT/DEVELOPER agrees that all notices or refunds to the
APPLICANT/DEVELOPER shall be mailed to the following address:
   
   
   
   6.   COLLECTION: Should the APPLICANT/DEVELOPER fail to pay any sum required
to be paid hereunder when due, TOWN shall be entitled to pursue all remedies at
law or equity. Interest shall accrue at the rate of 18% per annum simple
interest on all sums unpaid after the due date. The TOWN may collect a
reasonable attorney's fee, which shall not be less than $300, should litigation
for the purpose of collecting any sum be commenced.
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have hereunto subscribed their hands
the date first above written.
   TOWN OF HAMMONTON   APPLICANT/DEVELOPER
      
   Signature   Signature
   Project Name:
   Project Location:
   Applicant/Developer Name:
   Applicant/Developer Address:
   
   
   Applicant/Developer Federal I.D. Number:
   Applicant/Developer Social Security Number:
   Bill to (name and address if different from above):
   Name:
   Address:
              
   Phone: ____________________ (Business) ______________________ (Other)
§ 175-47. Subdivision review fees.
[Amended 7-28-1986 by Ord. No. 17-1986; 4-24-1989 by Ord. No. 14-1989; 4-22-
1996 by Ord. No. 3-1996; 8-24-2009 by Ord. No. 17-2009]
   Subdivision review fees shall be as follows:
   A.   Minor subdivision:
      (1)   Application fee: $250.
      (2)   Escrow fee: $1,500.
   B.   Preliminary approval, major subdivision:
      (1)   Application fee: $500.
      (2)   Escrow fee: $4,000, plus $100 per lot.
      (3)   Extension of preliminary approval:
         (a)   Application fee: $150.
         (b)   Escrow fee: 20% of original escrow deposit.
      (4)   Substantial revision or additional review of preliminary approval:
         (a)   Application fee: $250.
         (b)   Escrow fee: 100% of original escrow deposit for preliminary
approval, major subdivision.
   C.   Final approval, major subdivision:
      (1)   Application fee: $350.
      (2)   Escrow fee: 100% of original escrow deposit for preliminary
approval, major subdivision.
      (3)   Extension of final approval:
         (a)   Application fee: $150.
         (b)   Escrow fee: 20% of original escrow deposit.
   D.   Extension of minor subdivision approval:
      (1)   Application fee: $150.
      (2)   Escrow fee: $300.
§ 175-48. Categories of site plan fees.
   For the purposes of establishing application fees for the review of site
plans, the following site plan categories are hereby created:
   A.   New commercial construction. This shall consist of all new construction
of any type of retail sales establishment, professional or business offices,
service establishments or any other use not categorized otherwise herein.
   B.   New construction (industrial). This shall consist of all new
construction of any industrial establishment. For purposes of this chapter, an
industrial establishment shall be considered to be that type of business where
parts may be assembled or where raw materials are converted to form a finished
consumer product and where same is distributed to wholesale or retail sales
outlets and which do not have direct retail sales greater than 10% of total
sales volume. In addition, the following uses shall also fall within this
category:
      (1)   Warehouses solely for the storage of materials or products.
      (2)   Heavy construction contractor yard.
      (3)   Any other use which, in the opinion of the approving authority, is
within the intent of this section.
   C.   Residential housing. This shall consist of multifamily development
apartments, condominium developments and similar residential developments.
   D.   Building alteration. This shall consist of any building or group of
buildings for which site plan approval has been previously granted which is
being increased in gross floor area greater than 10% of the original floor area
or in case of industrial sites greater than 20% of gross floor area. Any
building for which site plan approval has been previously granted and which is
being increased by less than the values stated shall be considered exempt from
the provisions of this chapter, except that this shall be restricted to only
the first such enlargement after site plan approval. Also included in this
category are any buildings or groups of buildings, regardless of amount of
increase in size, which have never previously obtained site plan approval.
   E.   Use change. This shall consist of all land areas and all buildings or
groups of buildings not being increased in size but wherein a change of use is
proposed and no previous site plan approval for the proposed use has ever been
obtained, or where previous site plan approval has been obtained and the new
use has a greater parking requirement per this chapter.
§ 175-49. Site plan review fees.
[Amended 7-28-1986 by Ord. No. 17-1986; 4-24-1989 by Ord. No. 14-1989; 4-22-
1996 by Ord. No. 3-1996; 8-24-2009 by Ord. No. 17-2009]
   Site plan review fees shall be as follows:
   A.   Minor site plan:
      (1)   Application fee for preliminary and final minor site plan: $500.
      (2)   Escrow fee: $3,500. If escrow drops below 30% of the initial
amount, the applicant must deposit funds to replenish escrow to 100% of initial
amount deposited.
   B.   Major site plan:
      (1)   Application fee for preliminary and final major site plan: $1,500.
      (2)   Escrow fee for preliminary site plan:
         (a)   New commercial and/or new industrial construction: $4,000 for
the first acre of the gross area or fraction thereof, plus $800 for each
additional acre or fraction thereof. If escrow drops below 30% of the initial
amount, the applicant must deposit funds to replenish escrow to 100% of initial
amount deposited.
         (b)   Residential multifamily housing construction: $8,000 for two to
25 dwelling units, plus $50 per dwelling unit for every unit above 25. If
escrow drops below 30% of the initial amount, the applicant must deposit funds
to replenish escrow to 100% of initial amount deposited.
         (c)   Building alteration: $2,500 for the first 3,000 square feet of
gross floor area, plus $500 per 1,000 square feet of additional gross floor
area or fraction thereof. If escrow drops below 30% of the initial amount, the
applicant must deposit funds to replenish escrow to 100% of initial amount
deposited.
      (3)   Final escrow fees for major site plan:
         (a)   New commercial and/or new industrial construction: $2,500 for
the first acre of the gross area or fraction thereof, plus $800 for each
additional acre or fraction thereof. If escrow drops below 30% of the initial
amount, the applicant must deposit funds to replenish escrow to 100% of initial
amount deposited.
         (b)   Residential multifamily housing construction: $8,000 for two to
25 units, plus $50 per dwelling unit for every unit above 25. If escrow drops
below 30% of the initial amount, the applicant must deposit funds to replenish
escrow to 100% of initial amount deposited.
         (c)   Building alteration: $2,500 for the first 3,000 square feet of
gross floor area, plus $500 per 1,000 square feet of additional floor area or
fraction thereof. If escrow drops below 30% of the initial amount, the
applicant must deposit funds to replenish escrow to 100% of initial amount
deposited.
   C.   Change of use.
      (1)   Application fee: $500.
      (2)   Escrow fee: $1,250. If escrow drops below 30% of the initial
amount, the applicant must deposit funds to replenish escrow to 100% of initial
amount deposited.
§ 175-50. Other fees and escrows.
[Amended 7-28-1986 by Ord. No. 17-1986; 4-24-1989 by Ord. No. 14-1989; 4-22-
1996 by Ord. No. 3-1996; 8-24-2009 by Ord. No. 17-2009]
   A.   Fees.
      (1)   Hear and decide appeals: $300.
      (2)   Interpretation of the Zoning Map: $300.
      (3)   Hardship variance: $200.
         (a)   Escrow fee: $750.
      (4)   Use variance: $250.
         (a)   Escrow fee: $1,000.
      (5)   Conditional uses: The fee shall be that which applies to minor or
major site plans, whichever category is applicable to the application in
question.
      (6)   Hearing for permit for building or structure:
         (a)   In bed of mapped street, et al: $200.
         (b)   Not related to a street: $200.
      (7)   Site plan waiver request: $250.
         (a)   Escrow fee: $750.
      (8)   Request for waiver from the requirement that curbs and sidewalks be
installed: $150.
      (9)   Certificate of appropriateness (historical, archaeological and
cultural designations):
         (a)   If a certificate of appropriateness is required, the application
fee shall be $100.
         (b)   Escrow fees may be required, if necessary, as generally set
forth in §
175-46.
      (10)   Certificate of subdivision approval:
         (a)   The fee for a certificate confirming subdivision approval shall
be $15.
         (b)   The fee to update this certificate shall be $5, and the updated
certificate may be reissued within two years of the original certificate.
      (11)   Signs.
         (a)   The following fees shall apply for a permit to construct a
permanent new sign which is not a substantially similar replacement of a sign
in that location: $1 per square foot of surface area of a sign (calculated and
applied to one side of a double-faced sign only), but in no event less than
$50.
         (b)   An addition to an existing permitted sign shall have a fee only
as to the additional sign square footage.
         (c)   The fee shall be $25 for a sign substantially similar to the
sign being replaced.
         (d)   The fee for a permit to use a temporary, portable sign shall be
$25, which permit shall expire in 90 days.
      (12)   Zoning permit/certificate of conformity/letter of interpretation
application fee: $25.
[Added 4-18-2011 by Ord. No. 6-2011]
   B.   Escrows. All escrows shall be $500 unless otherwise specified or waived
by the respective board. When any escrow drops below 30% of the initial amount
deposited, the applicant must deposit funds to replenish escrow to 100% of
initial amount deposited.
§ 175-50.1. Development fees.
[Added 6-17-2002 by Ord. No. 28-2002; amended 8-26-2002 by Ord. No. 32-2002]
   A.   In Holmdel Builder's Ass'n v. Holmdel Township, 121 N.J. 550 (1990),
the New Jersey Supreme Court determined that mandatory development fees are
authorized by the Fair Housing Act of 1985, N.J.S.A. 52:27d-30l et seq., and
the State Constitution subject to the Council on Affordable Housing's (COAH)
adoption of rules. The purpose of this section is to establish standards for
the collection, maintenance and expenditure of development fees pursuant to
COAH's rules. Fees collected pursuant to this section shall be used for the
sole purpose of providing low- and moderate-income housing. This section shall
be interpreted within the framework of COAH's rules on development fees.
   B.   Residential development fees. Developers shall pay a development fee of
½ of 1% of the equalized assessed value for residential development within all
zoning districts in the Town of Hammonton, provided no increased density is
permitted.
[Amended 8-23-2004 by Ord. No. 21-2004]
   C.   Non-residential development fees. Notwithstanding any other provision
of this § 175- 50.1, developers shall pay development fees on non-residential
development in accordance with the Statewide Non-residential Development Fee
Act, N.J.S. 40:55D-8.1 through 40:55D- 8.7, as amended and supplemented. 1  
[Amended 8-27-2018 by Ord. No. 31-2018; amended 11-19-2018 by Ord. No. 45-2018]
   D.   Eligible exaction, ineligible exaction and exemptions.
      (1)   Developers of low- and moderate-income units shall be exempt from
paying development fees.
      (2)   Developers that have received preliminary or final approval prior
to the effective date of this section shall be exempt from paying a development
fee unless the developer seeks a substantial change in the approval, or a
developer who has agreed to pay development fee and has included the resolution
of approval.
      (3)   Developers of churches, schools, religious organizations and
qualified nonprofit organizations facilities, together with additions to
existing residential and commercial structures, shall be exempt from paying a
development fee.
      (4)   A developer shall be exempt from the payment of the development fee
in the event that the residential development occurs after an existing
structure has been raised and only if the new residential development is of the
same intensity as the previous use.
[Added 8-23-2004 by Ord. No. 21-2004]
   E.   Payment.
[Amended 8-23-2004 by Ord. No. 21-2004]
      (1)   Developers shall pay no less than 50% of the calculated development
fee to the Town of Hammonton at the issuance of building permits.
      (2)   At the time of the issuance of certificates of occupancy, the
developer shall pay the balance of the calculated development fee to the Town.
      (3)   The developer shall be responsible for paying the difference
between the fees paid at the time of the issuance of the building permit and
that calculated at the time of the issuance of the certificate of occupancy.
   F.   Housing trust fund.
      (1)   There is hereby created an interest-bearing housing trust fund in
Fleet Bank for the purpose of receiving development fees from residential and
nonresidential developers. All development fees paid by developers pursuant to
this section shall be deposited in this fund. No money shall be expended from
the housing trust fund unless the expenditure conforms to a spending plan
approved by COAH.
      (2)   If COAH determines that the Town of Hammonton is not in compliance
with COAH rules on development fees, COAH is authorized to direct the manner in
which all development fees collected pursuant to this section shall be
expended. Such authorization is pursuant to this section, COAH's rules on
development fees and the written authorization from the governing body to the
Fleet Bank.
   G.   Use of funds.
      (1)   Money deposited in a housing trust fund may be used for any
activity approved by COAH for addressing the Town of Hammonton's low- and
moderate-income housing obligation. Such activities may include, but are not
necessarily limited to, housing rehabilitation, new construction, regional
contribution agreements, the purchase of land for low- and moderate-income
housing, extensions and/or improvements of roads and infrastructure to low- and
moderate-income housing sites, assistance designed to render units more
affordable to low- and moderate-income households and administrative costs
necessary to implement the Town of Hammonton's housing element. The expenditure
of all money shall conform to a spending plan approved by COAH.
      (2)   At least 30% of the revenues collected shall be devoted to render
units more affordable unless exempt as per N.J.A.C. 5:93-8-16(c). Examples of
such activities include, but are not limited to, down payment and closing cost
assistance, low-interest loans and rental assistance.
      (3)   No more than 20% of the revenues shall be expended on
administrative costs necessary to develop, revise or implement the housing
element. Examples of eligible administrative activities include personnel,
consultant services, space costs, consumable supplies and rental or purchase of
equipment directly associated with plan development or plan implementation.
      (4)   Development fee revenues shall not be expended to reimburse the
Town of Hammonton for housing activities that preceded a first or second round
substantive certification.
   H.   Expiration. This section shall expire if:
      (1)   COAH revokes substantive certification of this section;
      (2)   The substantive certification/judgment of repose expires prior to
the Town of Hammonton's filing an adopted housing element with COAH,
petitioning for substantive certification or receiving COAH's approval of this
section.
 
Notes
1 17. Editor's Note: Former Subsection C, Nonresidential development fees, was
  repealed 8-23-2004 by Ord. No. 21-2004.
ARTICLE VIII. Development Review and Approval
§ 175-51. Definitions.
   As used in this article, the following terms shall have the meanings
indicated:
   CONDITIONAL USE
   A use permitted in a particular zoning district only upon a showing that
such use in a specified location will comply with the conditions and standards
for the location or operation of such use as contained in this chapter and upon
the issuance of an authorization therefor by the Planning Board.
   MAJOR SUBDIVISION
   Any subdivision of land not classified as a minor subdivision.
   MINOR SITE PLAN
   A.   A development plan of one or more lots which:
   B.   Does not propose the new construction of or any addition to a structure
or building which will result in the building coverage of a property involved
to be in excess of 5,000 square feet.
   C.   Does not require a land area in excess of 10,000 square feet to be
disturbed by construction.
   D.   Does not involve planned development.
   E.   Contains the information reasonably required in order to make an
informed determination whether the requirements established by this chapter for
the approval of a minor site plan have been met.
   F.   Any new street or extension of any off-tract improvements which is to
be prorated pursuant to §
175-119 of this chapter (N.J.S.A. 40:55D-42).
   MINOR SUBDIVISION
   A subdivision of land for the creation of an aggregate of not more than four
lots (three new lots plus the remaining lot), provided that such subdivision
does not involve a planned development, any new streets or the extension of any
off-tract improvements, the cost of which is to be prorated pursuant to §
175-119 of this chapter (N.J.S.A. 40:55D-42); and is not a further division of
an original tract of land for which previous minor subdivision(s) have been
approved by any board within the five years past and where the combination of
the proposed and approved minor subdivisions constitutes a major subdivision;
and is not deficient in those details and specifications required herein of a
minor subdivision. Any readjustment of lot lines resulting in no new lots shall
be classified as a minor subdivision.
   SITE PLAN
   A development plan of one or more lots on which is shown the existing and
proposed conditions of the lot, including but not necessarily limited to
topography, vegetation, drainage, floodplains, marshes and waterways; the
location of all existing and proposed buildings, drives, parking spaces,
walkways, means of ingress and egress, drainage facilities, utility services,
landscaping, structures and signs, lighting, screening devices; and any other
information that may be reasonably required in order to make an informed
determination pursuant to this chapter.
   SUBDIVISION
   The division of a lot, tract or parcel of land into two or more lots,
tracts, parcels or other divisions of land for sale or development. The
following shall not be considered subdivisions within the meaning of this
chapter, if no new streets are created: divisions of land found by the Planning
Board to be for agricultural purposes where all resulting parcels are five
acres or larger in size; divisions of property by testamentary or intestate
provisions; divisions of property upon court order, including but not limited
to judgments of foreclosure; consolidation of existing lots by deed or other
recorded instrument; and the conveyance of one or more adjoining lots, tracts
or parcels of land owned by the same person or persons and all of which are
found and certified by the administrative officer to conform to the
requirements of this chapter and are shown and designated as separate lots,
tracts or parcels on the Tax Map or Atlas of the town. The term "subdivision"
shall also include the term "resubdivision."
§ 175-52. Review requirements; exemptions; waivers; deviations.
   A.   Site plan review and approval shall be required before any development,
change of use or before any excavation, removal of soil, clearing of a site or
placing of any fill on lands contemplated for development, and, except as
hereinafter provided, no building permit shall be issued for any building for
use or reduction or enlargement in size or other alteration of any building or
change in building type or use of any building, including accessory structures,
unless a site plan is first submitted and approved by the reviewing board, and
no certificate of occupancy shall be given unless all construction and
development conform to the plans as approved by the reviewing board.
[Amended 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   B.   Exemptions.
      (1)   Site plan review and approval shall not be required for:
      (a)   Building permits for individual lot applications involving only a
detached one- or two-dwelling-unit building.
      (b)   Accessory uses such as a private garage, unless it is part of an
apartment or townhouse project.
      (c)   A sign for an existing use or structure which meets all applicable
zoning requirements as determined by the Zoning Officer.
      (d)   Other buildings incidental to residential or agricultural land use,
provided that the proposed use is not a roadside stand.
      (e)   In connection with the alteration or repair of an existing building
or use which is not either a detached one- or two-dwelling building or
agricultural use when the Zoning Officer determines that said alterations or
repair:
         [1]   Will not result in additional lot coverage.
         [2]   Will conform to the maximum and minimum building standards set
forth in the Zoning Ordinance.
         [3]   Will not increase the number of required off-street parking or
loading spaces.
         [4]   Is not proposed in connection with a use requiring conditional
use approval by the Planning Board.
      (2)   The provisions of Subsection B(1) shall not limit the requirements
for submission and approval of subdivision plats as otherwise required by this
chapter.
   C.   The reviewing board may waive site plan approval requirements whenever
it determines that the proposed construction or alteration or change of
occupancy or use or building type classification does not affect existing
circulation, drainage, relationship of buildings to each other, landscaping,
buffering, lighting and other considerations of site plan review. Any applicant
desiring a waiver under this provision shall present sufficient evidence to
allow the board to reach such conclusions as would permit a waiver. This
evidence shall consist of sketches, descriptions of property and appurtenances,
methods of operations, photographs or other information or documentation as the
board may require. The board shall base its decision on such evidence and may
attach conditions to any waiver.
[Amended 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   D.   Approval of subdivision plats by resolution of the Planning Board shall
be required as a condition for the filing of such plats with the county
recording officer.
   E.   The zoning provisions of this chapter provide for conditional uses
which shall be granted by the Planning Board according to definite
specifications and standards as set forth clearly by ordinance. The Planning
Board shall have the power to review and approve or deny conditional uses or
site plans simultaneously with a review for subdivision approval without the
applicant being required to hold further hearings. The longest time period for
action by the Board, whether it is for subdivision, conditional use or site
plan approval, shall apply. Whenever approval of a conditional use is requested
by the applicant in conjunction with a site plan or subdivision, notice of the
hearing on the plat shall include reference to the request for such conditional
use.
   F.   The Planning Board, when acting upon applications for preliminary or
minor subdivisions or preliminary site plan approval, shall have the power to
grant such exceptions from the requirements of Article XII, Design, Performance
and Evaluation Standards, for subdivision approval or site plan approval as may
be reasonable and within the general purpose and intent of the provisions for
subdivision or site plan review and approval of this chapter, if the literal
enforcement of one or more provisions of this chapter is impracticable or will
exact undue hardship because of peculiar conditions pertaining to the land in
question. Whenever, however, an exception is being sought from the requirements
of §
175-99A for an environmental impact statement, a written determination from the
Environmental Commission, setting forth its factual findings, conclusions and
recommendations as to the granting of such an exception, shall accompany the
original application to the Board.
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989]
   G.   The Zoning Board of Adjustment shall have the power to grant, to the
same extent and subject to the same restrictions as the Planning Board,
subdivision, site plan or conditional use approval pursuant to this chapter
whenever the proposed development requires approval by the Zoning Board of
Adjustment of a variance pursuant to §
175-28 of this chapter. The developer may elect to submit a separate
application requesting approval of the variance and a subsequent application
for any required approval of a subdivision, site plan or conditional use. The
separate approval of the variance shall be conditioned upon granting of all
required subsequent approvals by the Zoning Board of Adjustment. No such
subsequent approval shall be granted unless such approval can be granted
without substantial detriment to the public good and without substantial
impairment of the intent and purpose of the Zone Plan and Zoning Ordinance. The
number of votes of Board members required to grant any such subsequent approval
shall be as otherwise provided in this chapter for the approval in question,
and the special vote pursuant to the provisions of §
175-28A(4) shall not be required.
   H.   The Planning Board may authorize a deviation from the final plan if
caused by a change of conditions beyond the control of the developer since the
date of final approval and if the deviation would not substantially alter the
character of the development or substantially impair the intent and purpose of
the Master Plan and Zoning Ordinance.
§ 175-53. Concept design review.
   A.   An applicant may request, and the Planning Board shall grant, an
informal review of a concept design plan for which an applicant intends to
prepare and submit an application for development. It is strongly advised that
applicants with planned developments submit under the provisions of this
section.
[Amended 3-25-2002 by Ord. No. 12-2002]
   B.   A concept design plan and the supporting documents for a proposed
development shall constitute the material to be officially submitted to the
Planning Board. Said plans and supporting documents shall show a general
informal design of the development, including proposed building types if
located in a Downtown District or Gateway District, and its public improvements
so that the Board can indicate its approval or disapproval of the concept.
Approval of the concept design plan does not constitute an approval of the
concept or plan, nor shall it be considered a valid basis for the construction
of improvements or for other commitments which depend upon its design
characteristics. Neither the applicant nor the Board shall be bound by the plan
or the review.
[Amended 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   C.   Should such request be made by the applicant, submission shall be made
to the Planning Board Secretary, and the applicant shall submit six copies of
the concept design plan of the proposed development and six copies of the
preliminary plat application as hereinafter set forth.
   D.   No fee for concept review shall be required from the applicant.
However, the applicant and the Board may agree to an escrow fee to be paid by
the applicant to cover the cost of professional services incurred by the Board
for the review of the concept plan. Said moneys shall be placed in escrow by
the Board and may be used for said services, including legal and engineering or
other incidental expenses of the Board.
   E.   The Board shall review with the applicant the concept design plan
within 45 days of the date of submission. Upon written consent of the
applicant, the time period for review shall be extended for additional periods
of time to allow for additional review. Failure to review or to extend the
review within the applicable periods shall not constitute an approval by the
Board.
   F.   Upon the Board completing its review of the concept design plan, it
shall return all but one copy of the proposed concept design plan and
application to the applicant with any written suggestions. A formal motion at a
meeting of the Board to return said documents to the applicant shall stop any
time periods from continuing to run. In no event shall the concept design plan
be considered to be a preliminary plat for the purposes of deeming an
application complete or approving a preliminary plat.
§ 175-54. Filing of applications with Pinelands Commission. [Amended 4-10-1989
by Ord. No. 7-1989]
   A.   For the purposes of this section, the following terms shall have the
meanings indicated:
   DEVELOPMENT — The change of or enlargement of any use or disturbance of any
land, the performance of any building or mining operation, the division of land
into two or more parcels and the creation or termination of rights of access or
riparian rights, including but not limited to:
      (1)   A change in type of use of a structure or land, or a change in
building type if within areas zoned as Downtown Districts or Gateway Districts.
[Amended 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
      (2)   A reconstruction, alteration of the size or material change in the
external appearance of a structure or land.
      (3)   A material increase in the intensity of use of land, such as an
increase in the number of businesses, manufacturing establishments, offices or
dwelling units in a structure or on land.
      (4)   Commencement of resource extraction or drilling or excavation on a
parcel of land.
      (5)   Demolition of a structure or removal of trees.
      (6)   Deposit of refuse, solid or liquid waste or fill on a parcel of
land.
      (7)   In connection with the use of land, the making of any material
change in noise levels, thermal conditions or emissions of waste material.
      (8)   Alteration, either physically or chemically, of a shore, bank or
floodplain, seacoast, river, stream, lake, pond, wetlands or artificial body of
water.
      (9)   Commencement of forestry activities.
   MAJOR DEVELOPMENT — Any division of land into five or more lots; any
construction or expansion of any housing development of five or more dwelling
units; any construction or expansion of any commercial or industrial use or
structure on a site of more than three acres; or any grading, clearing or
disturbance of an area in excess of 5,000 square feet
   MINOR DEVELOPMENT — All development, as defined in this section, other than
major development.
   B.   An applicant, prior to filing an application for development with any
approval authority, shall file the required application with the Pinelands
Commission in accordance with the provisions of §
175-60 of this article.
§ 175-55. Minor subdivision review.
   A.   Minor subdivision plats, plans, applications and required attachments
shall be submitted where the applicant proposes a subdivision that meets the
definitional requirements of a minor subdivision.
   B.   The applicant shall submit to the Board Secretary the following items:
      (1)   Twelve copies of the proposed minor subdivision prepared in
accordance with §
175-66 of Article IX, Plat Detail and Data, of this chapter.
      (2)   Three completed copies of both the town and county applications.
      (3)   Four copies of any protective covenants or deed restrictions
applying or to be applied to the subject land.
      (4)   The application and/or escrow fee and fee agreement in accordance
with §§
175-46 and
175-47 of this chapter.
      (5)   A certificate of filing issued by the Pinelands Commission pursuant
to N.J.A.C. 7:50-4.33 through 4.35 and §
175-60 of this chapter.
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989]
      (6)   A certification by the Tax Collector's office that no taxes or
assessments for local improvements are due or delinquent on the subject
property.
      (7)   If applicable, certification of corporation or partnership
involvement as per §
175-42B of this chapter.
      (8)   Any additional documents as may be requested on the applicable
application form as are reasonably necessary to make an informed decision
whether the requirements for approval of an application for development have
been met.
   C.   The Board Secretary shall, immediately upon receipt, note the date of
receipt, mark the documents "filed" and assign a file number. Once a file
number has been assigned, such number must be placed by the applicant on all
papers, maps, plats and other documents submitted.
   D.   The Board Secretary shall immediately forward one copy of all items
submitted by the applicant to the Board Engineer and one copy of both the plans
and application form to the County Planning Board.
   E.   The Board Engineer shall review all aspects of the application for
development, including a review as to completeness of the application.
   F.   The Board Engineer shall expeditiously report his findings, in writing,
to the Board.
   G.   Upon receipt of the Board Engineer's report and within the applicable
time period, the Board shall first determine whether a complete application has
been submitted. If the application is found to be incomplete, the Board may
deem it incomplete and return it to the applicant to correct the deficiencies.
After the deeming of an application incomplete, the applicant may correct the
deficiencies and resubmit all required items.
   H.   If the application is found to conform to the definition of a minor
subdivision and is complete, the Board shall formally determine that a complete
application has been submitted and shall also waive the requirements for public
notice and hearing. Upon a determination of completeness of an application for
development, notice shall be given by the Board to the Pinelands Commission in
accordance with §
175-60D(1).
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989]
   I.   The Board shall determine the completeness of an application and, if
said application is determined to be complete, grant or deny the application
within 45 days of the date of submission of the application to the Board
Secretary. However, upon finding the application to be incomplete, all time
periods will be tolled and no further action may be taken until a resubmission.
   J.   Notice of any hearing, public meeting or other formal proceeding at
which the Board will consider an application for minor subdivision shall be
given by the Board to the Pinelands Commission, in writing, not less than five
days prior to such meeting, hearing or proceeding; said notice shall be in
accordance with §
175-60D(2).
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989]
   K.   Where the remaining portion of the original tract is of sufficient size
to be subdivided further, the applicant may be required to submit a concept
plat of the entire remaining portion of the tract to indicate a feasible plan
whereby the applied for subdivision, together with subsequent subdivision(s),
may be submitted that will not create, impose or aggravate or lead to any such
adverse effect.
   L.   Action on applications; conditions.
      (1)   The Board shall act upon the application upon being satisfied that
it has sufficiently reviewed the application, that its professionals have
adequately reviewed the application, that the applicant has had sufficient
opportunity to present its request to the Board and that the interests of other
interested persons have been considered. In all cases, however, an application
for minor subdivision approval shall be granted or denied, by resolution of the
Board, within 45 days of the date of determination that a complete application
was submitted to the Board or within such further time as may be consented to
by the applicant. The decision and resolution of the Board shall be in writing.
Said decision and resolution shall be in accordance with §§
175-40 and
175-41 of this chapter. (See N.J.S.A. 40:55D-10g through 55D-10i.)
      (2)   Minor subdivision approval shall be deemed to be a final approval
by the Board, except that such final approval shall not take effect until the
requirements of §
175-43 have been satisfied.
      (3)   The Board may condition final approval on terms ensuring the
provision of improvements and performance in accordance with Articles X, XII
and XIII of this chapter. (See N.J.S.A. 40:55D-38 to 40:55D-40 and N.J.S.A. 40:
55D-53.)
      (4)   Whenever review or approval of the application by the Atlantic
County Planning Board is required by N.J.S.A. 40:27-6.3, the Board shall
condition any approval that it grants upon timely receipt of a favorable report
on the application by the Atlantic County Planning Board or approval by the
Atlantic County Planning Board by its failure to report thereon within the
required time period.
      (5)   Failure of the Board to act within the period prescribed shall
constitute approval, and a certificate of the Board Secretary as to the failure
of the Board to act shall be issued on request of the applicant. Such
certificate shall be sufficient in lieu of the written endorsement or other
evidence of approval as herein required and shall be accepted by the Atlantic
County Clerk for purposes of filing subdivision plats.
   M.   Where any approval results from the failure of the Board to act within
the prescribed period, the applicant shall provide notice to the Pinelands
Commission, and the approval and/or certificate shall not become effective
until the requirements of §
175-60 of this article have been satisfied.
   N.   The approval of a minor subdivision shall expire 190 days from the date
of Board approval, unless within such period a plat in conformity with such
approval and the provisions of the Map Filing Law (N.J.S.A. 46:23-9.9 et seq.)
or a deed clearly describing the approved minor subdivision is filed by the
developer with the Atlantic County Clerk, the Board Engineer and the Town Tax
Assessor. Any such plat or deed accepted for such filing shall have been signed
by the Chairman and Secretary of the approving board. In reviewing the
application for development for a proposed minor subdivision, the Board may be
permitted by ordinance to accept a plat not in conformity with the Map Filing
Law, provided that if the developer chooses to file the minor subdivision as
provided herein by plat rather than deed, such plat shall conform to the
provisions of said act.
   O.   Upon the granting of subdivision approval by the Board, copies of the
approved documents shall be sent to the:
      (1)   Applicant.
      (2)   Planning Board file.
      (3)   Board Engineer.
      (4)   Construction Code Official.
      (5)   Town Clerk.
      (6)   Tax Assessor.
      (7)   County Board of Health.
      (8)   Pinelands Commission.
   P.   The zoning requirements and general terms and conditions, whether
conditional or otherwise, upon which minor subdivision approval was granted
shall not be changed for a period of two years after the date of minor
subdivision approval, provided that the approved minor subdivision shall have
been duly recorded as provided in this section.
§ 175-56. Review of major subdivisions and planned development.
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989; 3-25-2002 by Ord. No. 12-2002]
   A.   Preliminary review.
      (1)   Preliminary development plats, plans, applications and required
attachments shall be submitted where the applicant proposes a development that
meets the definitional requirements of a major subdivision and planned
development.
      (2)   The applicant shall submit to the Board Secretary the following
items:
         (a)   Twelve copies of the preliminary plat proposed development
prepared in accordance with §
175-67 of this chapter.
         (b)   Three copies of both the completed town and county application
forms.
         (c)   Three copies of any protective covenants or deed restrictions
applying or to be applied to the subject land.
         (d)   The application and/or escrow fee and fee agreement in
accordance with §§
175-46 and
175-47 of this chapter.
         (e)   A certificate of filing issued by the Pinelands Commission as
per N.J.A.C. 7:50-4.33 through 4.35; a certificate of appropriateness; and a
cultural resource survey.
         (f)   A certification by the Tax Collector's office that no taxes or
assessments for local improvements are due or delinquent on the subject
property.
         (g)   If applicable, certification of corporation or partnership
involvement as per §
175-42B of this chapter.
         (h)   An environmental impact statement as required by §
175-52F of this chapter, or, if a request for an exception is being made, a
report from the Environmental Commission as provided in §
175-52F.
         (i)   Any additional documents as may be requested on the applicable
application form.
      (3)   The Board Secretary shall, immediately upon receipt, note the date
of receipt, mark the documents "filed" and assign a file number. Once a file
number has been assigned, such number must be placed by the applicant on all
papers, maps, plats and other documents submitted.
      (4)   The Board Secretary shall immediately forward one copy of all items
submitted by the applicant to the Board Engineer and attorney and the County
Planning Board.
      (5)   The Board Engineer shall first review the items received to report
to the Board as to the completeness of the application. Said Engineer may also
review said items as to all phases of the application for development.
      (6)   The Board Engineer shall, as quickly as possible, report his
findings, in writing, to the Board. Said report shall be available to the Board
for its use in determining the completeness of the application.
      (7)   The Board shall formally determine the completeness of the
submitted application and notify the applicant within 45 days of the date of
its submission, or it shall be deemed to be properly submitted. If the
application for development is found to be incomplete, the applicant shall be
notified in writing of the deficiencies within the above period. After the
correction of the deficiencies, the applicant may resubmit all required and
correct items.
      (8)   Upon a determination of completeness of an application, notice
shall be given by the Board to the Pinelands Commission in accordance with §
175-60D(1).
      (9)   During the period required by the Board to review the proposal of
the applicant, the Board shall hold a hearing upon public notice. Said hearing
may, in the discretion of the Board, be held prior to or after the Board
determines the application to be complete.
         (a)   The Board shall set the date, time and place of the hearing and
shall advise the applicant.
         (b)   Notice of the hearing shall be published, given to the public
and given to others by the applicant, as required by §§
175-36 through
175-40 of this chapter and by N.J.S.A. 40:55D-1 et seq.
         (c)   The applicant shall, prior to the hearing, comply with all other
requirements for a hearing requiring public notice, including but not limited
to:
            [1]   Public inspection of documents as per §
175-36C of this chapter.
            [2]   Filing of affidavit of proof of service and proof of
publication as per §
175-38E(7) of this chapter.
         (d)   All persons having an interest in the proposed development shall
be given an opportunity to be heard at the hearing.
      (10)   Notice of any hearing, public meeting or other formal proceeding
at which the Board will consider an application for development shall be given
by the Board to the Pinelands Commission, in writing, not less than five days
prior to such meeting, hearing or proceeding; said notice shall be in
accordance with §
175-60D(2).
      (11)   If the Board requires any substantial amendment in the layout of
improvements proposed by the applicant that have been the subject of a hearing,
an amended application shall be submitted and acted upon as would be done in
the case of the original application.
      (12)   The Board shall act upon the application upon being satisfied that
it has sufficiently reviewed the application, that its professionals have
adequately reviewed the application, that the applicant has had sufficient
opportunity to present its request to the Board and that the interests of other
interested persons have been considered.
         (a)   The Board shall also be certain that the proposed development
complies with this chapter, the Municipal Land Use Act (N.J.S.A. 40:55D-1 et
seq.), the Pinelands Comprehensive Management Plan and all other applicable
statutes, regulations or ordinances.
         (b)   In the case of a major subdivision where the remaining portion
of the original tract is of sufficient size to be subdivided further, the
subdivider may be required to submit a concept plat of the entire remaining
portion of the tract to indicate a feasible plan whereby the applied for
subdivision, together with subsequent subdivisions, may be submitted that will
not create, impose or aggravate or lead to any such adverse effect.
         (c)   The Board shall not act upon the application until it has
determined the application complete.
      (13)   In the case of a planned development, the Planning Board shall
find the following facts and conclusions prior to approval:
         (a)   That departures by the proposed development from zoning
regulations otherwise applicable to the subject property conform to the zoning
ordinance standards.
         (b)   That the proposals for maintenance and conservation of the
common open space are reliable, and the amount, location and purpose of the
common open space are adequate.
         (c)   That provision for public services, control over vehicular and
pedestrian traffic and the amenities of light and air, recreation and visual
enjoyment are adequate.
         (d)   That the proposed planned development will not have a
significant adverse impact upon the area in which it is proposed to be
established.
         (e)   In the case of a proposed development which contemplates
construction over a period of years, that the terms and conditions intended to
protect the interests of the public and of the residents, occupants and owners
of the proposed development in the total completion of the development are
adequate.
      (14)   Action by Board.
         (a)   The Board shall grant or deny preliminary approval of:
            [1]   A subdivision of 10 or fewer lots within 45 days of the date
a complete application was determined to have been submitted or within such
further time as may be consented to by the applicant; or
            [2]   A subdivision of more than 10 lots within 95 days of the date
a complete application was determined to have been submitted or within such
further time as may be consented to by the applicant.
         (b)   Upon failure of the Board to act within the aforementioned time
periods, the Board shall be deemed to have granted preliminary approval to the
subdivision.
      (15)   Such preliminary approval shall not take effect until the
requirements of §
175-60 of this article have been satisfied.
      (16)   Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, where any approval
results from the failure of the Board to act within the prescribed period, the
applicant shall provide notice to the Pinelands Commission, and the permit
shall not become effective until the requirements of §
175-60 of this article have been satisfied.
      (17)   Whenever review or approval of the application by the Atlantic
County Planning Board is required by Section 5 of P.L. 1968, c. 285 (N.J.S.A.
40:27-6.3), the Board shall condition any approval that it grants upon timely
receipt of a favorable report on the application by the Atlantic County
Planning Board or approval by the Atlantic County Planning Board by its failure
to report thereon within the required time period.
      (18)   The effect of preliminary approval shall be as set forth in
Article XI of this chapter.
      (19)   The final decision and resolution of the Board shall be in
writing. Said decision and resolution shall be in accordance with §§
175-40 and
175-41 of this chapter and N.J.S.A. 40:55D-10g through 55D-10i.
      (20)   Upon the granting of approval by the Board, copies of the approved
documents shall be sent to the:
         (a)   Applicant.
         (b)   Planning Board file.
         (c)   Board Engineer.
         (d)   Construction Code Official.
         (e)   Town Clerk.
         (f)   Tax Assessor.
         (g)   County Board of Health.
         (h)   Pinelands Commission.
         (i)   Environmental Commission.
      (21)   The applicant shall submit a Traffic Impact Study for any major
subdivision or planned development over 25 dwelling units. The Board may
require, at its sole discretion, a Traffic Impact Study for any major
subdivision or planned development consisting of 25 or fewer dwelling units.
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   B.   Final review.
      (1)   Final plats, plans, applications and required attachments shall be
submitted for major subdivisions and planned developments where the application
proposes a subdivision that meets the definitional requirements of a major
subdivision and prior to the expiration of preliminary approval of the subject
land. The applicant may submit for final approval, on or before the expiration
date of preliminary approval, the whole or a section or sections of the
preliminary development plat.
      (2)   The applicant shall submit to the Board Secretary the following
items:
         (a)   Thirteen copies of the final plat of the proposed major
subdivision and planned development, prepared in accordance with §
175-68 of Article IX, Plat Detail and Data, of this chapter.
         (b)   Three copies of the completed town and county application forms.
         (c)   Three copies of the protective covenants or deed restrictions
applying to the subject land as included in preliminary approval.
         (d)   The application and/or escrow fee and fee agreement in
accordance with §§
175-46 and
175-47 of this chapter.
         (e)   Two translucent tracing cloth copies and one original
reproducible copy of the proposed major subdivision.
         (f)   A copy of either:
         [1]   Notification from the Pinelands Commission that review of the
local agency's preliminary approval is not required; or
         [2]   Notification from the Pinelands Commission that it has completed
its review of the Board's preliminary approval pursuant to §
175-60; and the final order regarding the preliminary approval and review by
the Pinelands Commission.
         (g)   A certification by the Tax Collector's office that no taxes or
assessments for local improvements are due or delinquent on the subject
property.
         (h)   If applicable, certification of corporation or partnership
involvement as per §
175-42B of this chapter.
         (i)   All changes or modifications required by the Planning Board in
the approval of the preliminary plat.
         (j)   Letters directed to the Chairman of the Board and signed by a
responsible official of the Sewer Department,  18 Board of Water Commissioners
and any other utility company or governmental authority or district which
provides accessory utility service and has jurisdiction in the area approving
each proposed utility installation design. The letter will state who will
construct the facility and that the service will be available prior to
occupancy.
         (k)   A map showing all improvements required by the preliminary
approval and showing what improvements, if any, have been installed. The plan
shall show all improvements in their exact location and elevation.
         (l)   Certifications.
            [1]   Certification must be provided by a licensed engineer that
all improvements required by this chapter have been installed; and/or
            [2]   Certification by the applicant that he has posted guaranties
for the purposes of assuring the installation and maintenance of on-tract
improvements as required by Article X of this chapter and N.J.S.A. 40:55D-53;
this certification shall be accompanied by copies of the required guaranty
papers.
         (m)   Where improvements have been installed prior to the application,
there shall be a statement from the Board Engineer that all improvements
installed prior to application have been inspected as provided in Article X of
this chapter and that such improvements meet the requirements of the town. Any
improvements installed prior to application for final plat approval that do not
meet or exceed town standards shall be factored into the required performance
guaranty.
         (n)   Any additional documents as may be requested on the applicable
application form.
      (3)   The Board Secretary shall, immediately upon receipt, note the date
of receipt, mark the documents "filed" and assign a file number. Once a file
number has been assigned, such number must be placed by the applicant on all
papers, maps, plats and other documents submitted.
      (4)   The Board Secretary shall immediately forward one copy of all items
submitted by the applicant to the Board Engineer and to the County Planning
Board.
      (5)   The Board Engineer shall first review the items received in order
to report to the Board as to the completeness of the application. Said Engineer
may also review said items as to other phases of the application for
development.
      (6)   The Board Engineer shall expeditiously report his findings, in
writing, to the Board.
      (7)   Upon receipt of the Board Engineer's report, the Board shall first
determine whether a complete application has been submitted. If the application
is found to be incomplete, the Board may deem it incomplete and return it to
the applicant to correct the deficiencies. After the deeming of an application
incomplete, the applicant may correct the deficiencies and resubmit all
required items.
      (8)   If the application is found to be complete, the Board shall
formally determine that a complete application has been submitted; upon a
determination of completeness of an application for development in the
Pinelands Area of the Town of Hammonton, notice shall be given by the Board to
the Pinelands Commission in accordance with §
175-60D(1).
      (9)   From the date of determination of submission of a complete
application, the Board shall grant or deny final approval of the application
within 45 days or within such further time as may be consented to by the
applicant.
      (10)   Action by Board.
         (a)   Final approval shall be granted if the detailed drawings,
specifications and estimates of the application for final approval conform to
the standards established by ordinance for final approval, the conditions of
preliminary approval and the standards prescribed by the Map Filing Law
(N.J.S.A. 46:23-9.9 et seq.), provided that in the case of a planned unit
development or planned unit residential development, the Board may permit
minimal deviations from the conditions of preliminary approval necessitated by
change of conditions beyond the control of the developer since the date of
preliminary approval without the developer being required to submit another
application for development for preliminary approval.
         (b)   The decision and resolution of the Board shall be in writing.
Said decision and resolution shall be in accordance with §§
175-40 and
175-41 of this chapter. (See N.J.S.A. 40:55-10g through 55-10i.)
      (11)   Notice of any hearing, public meeting or other formal proceeding
at which the Board will consider an application for development shall be given
by the Board to the Pinelands Commission, in writing, not less than five days
prior to such meeting, hearing or proceeding; said notice shall be in
accordance with §
175-60D(2).
      (12)   The Board may condition final approval on terms ensuring the
provisions of improvements and performance in accordance with Articles VIII, IX
and X of this chapter. (See N.J.S.A. 40:55D-38 to 40:55D-40; N.J.S.A. 40:55D-
42; and N.J.S.A. 40:55D-53.)
      (13)   Whenever review or approval of the application by the Atlantic
County Planning Board is required by N.J.S.A. 40:27-6.3, the Board shall
condition any approval that it grants upon timely receipt of a favorable report
on the application by the Atlantic County Planning Board or approval by the
Atlantic County Planning Board by its failure to report thereon within the
required time period.
      (14)   Failure of the Board to act within the period prescribed shall
constitute approval, and a certificate of the Board Secretary as to the failure
of the Board to act shall be issued on the request of the applicant. Such
certificate shall be sufficient in lieu of the written endorsement or other
evidence or approval as herein required and shall be accepted by the Atlantic
County Clerk for purposes of filing subdivision plats.
      (15)   Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, where any approval
results from the failure of the Board to act within the prescribed period, the
application shall provide notice to the Pinelands Commission, and the permits
shall not become effective until the requirements of §
175-60 of this article have been satisfied.
      (16)   Upon the granting of subdivision approval by the Board, copies of
the approved documents shall be sent to the:
         (a)   Applicant.
         (b)   Planning Board file.
         (c)   Board Engineer.
         (d)   Construction Code Official.
         (e)   Town Clerk.
         (f)   Tax Assessor.
         (g)   County Board of Health.
         (h)   Pinelands Commission.
         (i)   Director of Public Works.
      (17)   Filing with county recording officer.
         (a)   Final approval of a major subdivision shall expire 95 days from
the date of signing of the plat unless within such period the plat shall have
been duly filed by the applicant with the county recording officer. The Board
may for good cause shown extend the period for recording for an additional
period not to exceed 190 days from the date of signing of the plat.
         (b)   No subdivision plat shall be accepted for filing by the county
recording officer until it has been approved by the Board as indicated on the
instrument by the signature of the Chairman and Secretary of the Board or a
certificate has been issued pursuant to N.J.S.A. 40:55D-47, N.J.S.A. 40:55D-50,
N.J.S.A. 40:55D-56, N.J.S.A. 40:55D-61, N.J.S.A. 40:55D-67 or N.J.S.A. 40:55D-
76. The signatures of the Chairman and Secretary of the Board shall not be
affixed until the developer has posted the guaranties required pursuant to
N.J.S.A. 40:55D-53. If the county recording officer records any plat without
such approval, such recording shall be deemed null and void, and upon request
of the town, the plat shall be expunged from the official records.
         (c)   It shall be the duty of the county recording officer to notify
the Board, in writing, within seven days of the filing of any plat, identifying
such instrument by its title, date of filing and official number.
      (18)   Upon the filing of a plat showing the subdivision or resubdivision
of land, the county recording officer shall, at the same time that notification
is given to the Board pursuant to N.J.S.A. 40:55D-54, send a copy of such
notification to the Tax Assessor of the town.
      (19)   The effect of final approval shall be as set forth in Article XI
of this chapter.
 
Notes
18 18.   Editor's Note: The Sewer Department was inactivated 1-24-2011 by Ord.
   No. 3-2011. See now Ch. 53, Public Utilities Department; Public Works Manager.
§ 175-57. Minor site plan review.
   A.   Minor site plans, applications and required attachments shall be
submitted where the applicant proposes a site plan that meets the definitional
requirements of a minor site plan.
   B.   The applicant shall submit to the Board Secretary the following items:
      (1)   Twelve copies of the proposed minor site plan prepared in
accordance with §
175-69, Minor site plan, of this chapter.
      (2)   Three copies of the completed town and county application forms.
      (3)   Four copies of any protective covenants or deed restrictions
applying or to be applied to the subject land.
      (4)   The application and/or escrow fee and fee agreement in accordance
with §§
175-48 and
175-49 of this chapter.
      (5)   A certificate of filing issued by the Pinelands Commission pursuant
to N.J.A.C. 7:50-4.33 through 4.35 and §
175-60 of this chapter.
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989]
      (6)   A certification by the Tax Collector's office that no taxes or
assessments for local improvements are due or delinquent on the subject
property.
      (7)   If applicable, certification of corporation or partnership
involvement as per §
175-42B of this chapter.
      (8)   Any additional documents as may be reasonably necessary to make an
informed decision whether the requirements necessary for preliminary site plan
approval have been met.
   C.   The Board Secretary shall, immediately upon receipt, note the date of
receipt, mark the documents "filed" and assign a file number. Once a file
number has been assigned, such number must be placed by the applicant on all
papers, maps, plats and other documents submitted.
   D.   The Board Secretary shall immediately forward one copy of all items
submitted by the applicant to the Board Engineer and one copy of each to the
Site Plan Review Advisory Board and the County Planning Board.
   E.   The Board Engineer shall review all aspects of the application for
development, including a review as to completeness of the application.
   F.   The Board Engineer shall expeditiously report his findings, in writing,
to the Board, with a copy to the Site Plan Review Advisory Board.
   G.   Upon receipt of the Board Engineer's report and within the applicable
time period, the Board shall first determine that a complete application has
been submitted. If the application is found to be incomplete, the Board shall
deem it incomplete and, through the Board Secretary, return the application to
the applicant to correct the deficiencies.
   H.   Upon a determination of completeness of an application for development,
notice shall be given by the Board to the Pinelands Commission in accordance
with §
175-60D(1).
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989]
   I.   If the application is found to conform to the definition of "minor site
plan" and is complete, the Board shall proceed to waive notice and public
hearing.
   J.   From the date of determination by the Board of submission of a complete
application, the Planning Board or Zoning Board of Adjustment shall have 45
days to grant or deny minor site plan approval or within such further time as
may be consented to by the applicant.
   K.   Notice of any hearing, public meeting or other formal proceeding at
which the Board will consider an application for development shall be given by
the Board to the Pinelands Commission, in writing, not less than five days
prior to such meeting, hearing or proceeding; said notice shall be in
accordance with §
175-60D(2).
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989]
   L.   Where the remaining portion of the original tract is of sufficient size
to be developed further, the applicant may be required to submit a concept plat
of the entire remaining portion of the tract to ensure that the applied for
development, together with any subsequent development that may be submitted,
will not create, impose or aggravate or lead to any such adverse effect.
   M.   The Board shall act upon the application upon being satisfied that it
has sufficiently reviewed the application, that its professionals have
adequately reviewed the application, that the applicant has had sufficient
opportunity to present its request to the Board and that the interests of other
interested persons have been considered. In all cases, however, an application
for minor subdivision approval shall be granted or denied, by resolution of the
Board, within 45 days of the date of determination that a complete application
was submitted to the Board or within such further time as may be consented to
the applicant. The decision and resolution of the Board shall be in writing.
Said decision and resolution shall be in accordance with §§
175-40 and
175-41 of this chapter. (See N.J.S.A. 40:55D-10g through 55D-10i.)
   N.   Minor site plan approval shall be deemed to be a final approval by the
Board, except that such final approval shall not take effect until the
requirements of §
175-60 of this article have been satisfied.
   O.   The Board may condition final approval on terms ensuring the provision
of improvements and performance in accordance with Articles X, XII and XIII of
this chapter. (See N.J.S.A. 40:55D-38, 55D-39, 55D-41 and 55D-53.)
   P.   Whenever review or approval of the application by the Atlantic County
Planning Board is required by N.J.S.A. 40:27-6.3, the Board shall condition any
approval that it grants upon timely receipt of a favorable report on the
application by the Atlantic County Planning Board or approval by the Atlantic
County Planning Board by its failure to report thereon within the required time
period.
   Q.   Failure of the Board to act within the period prescribed shall
constitute approval, and a certificate of the Board Secretary as to the failure
of the Board to act shall be issued on request of the applicant.
   R.   Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, where any approval
results from the failure of the Board to act within the prescribed period, the
applicant shall provide notice to the Pinelands Commission, and the approval
and/or certificate shall not become effective until the requirements of §
175-60 of this article have been satisfied.
   S.   Upon the granting of site plan approval by the Board, copies of the
approved documents shall be sent to the:
      (1)   Applicant.
      (2)   Planning Board file.
      (3)   Board Engineer.
      (4)   Construction Code Official.
      (5)   Town Clerk.
      (6)   Tax Assessor.
      (7)   County Board of Health.
      (8)   Pinelands Commission.
   T.   The zoning requirements and general terms and conditions, whether
conditional or otherwise, upon which minor site plan approval was granted,
shall not be changed for a period of two years after the date of minor site
plan approval.
§ 175-58. Major site plan review.
   A.   Preliminary review.
      (1)   Preliminary major site plans, applications and required attachments
shall be submitted where the applicant proposes a site plan that meets the
definitional requirements of a major site plan.
      (2)   The applicant shall submit to the Board Secretary the following
items: [Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989]
         (a)   Twelve copies of the plat of the proposed major site plan
prepared in accordance with §
175-70 of this chapter.
         (b)   Three copies of the completed town and county application forms.
         (c)   Three copies of any protective covenants or deed restrictions
applying or to be applied to the subject land.
         (d)   The application and/or escrow fee and fee agreement in
accordance with §§
175-48 and
175-49 of this chapter.
         (e)   A certificate of filing issued by the Pinelands Commission as
per N.J.A.C. 7:50-4.33 through 4.35; a certificate of appropriateness; and a
cultural resource survey.
         (f)   A certification by the Tax Collector's office that no taxes or
assessments for local improvements are due or delinquent on the subject
property.
         (g)   If applicable, certification of corporation or partnership
involvement as per §
175-42B of this chapter.
         (h)   Three copies of preliminary architectural plans and views.
         (i)   An environmental impact statement as required by §
175-52F of this chapter, or, if a request for an exception is being made, a
report from the Environmental Commission as provided for in §
175-52F.
         (j)   Any additional documents as may be requested on the applicable
application form as are reasonably necessary for the Board to make an informed
decision whether the requirements necessary for approval have been met.
      (3)   The Board Secretary shall, immediately upon receipt, note the date
of receipt, mark the documents "filed" and assign a file number. Once a file
number has been assigned, such number must be placed by the applicant on all
papers, maps, plats and other documents submitted.
      (4)   The Board Secretary shall immediately forward one copy of all items
submitted by the applicant to the Board Engineer and Attorney, one copy of each
to the County Planning Board and one copy of each to the Environmental
Commission.
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989]
      (5)   The Board Engineer shall first review the items received to report
to the Board as to the completeness of the application. Said Engineer shall
also review said items as to all phases of the application for development.
      (6)   The Board Engineer shall expeditiously report his findings, in
writing, to the Board. Said report shall be available to the Board for its use
in determining the completeness of the application.
      (7)   Upon receipt of the Board Engineer's report, the Board shall first
determine whether to recommend that a complete application has been submitted.
If the application is found to be incomplete, the Board may recommend that it
be deemed incomplete and that it be returned to the applicant to correct the
deficiencies.
      (8)   The Board shall formally determine the completeness of the
submitted application and notify the applicant within 45 days of the date of
its submission, or it shall be deemed to be properly submitted. If the
application for development is found to be incomplete, the applicant shall be
notified, in writing, of the deficiencies within the above period. After the
correction of the deficiencies, the applicant may resubmit all required and
corrected items.
      (9)   During the period required by the Board to review the proposal of
the applicant, the Board shall hold a hearing upon public notice. Said hearing
may, in the discretion of the Board, be held prior to or after the Board
determines the application to be complete.
         (a)   The Board shall set the date, time and place of the hearing and
shall advise the applicant.
         (b)   Notice of the hearing shall be published, given to the public
and given to others by the applicant, as required by §§
175-36 through
175-39 of this chapter. (See N.J.S.A. 40:55D-1 et seq.)
         (c)   The applicant shall, prior to the hearing, comply with all other
requirements for a hearing requiring public notice, including but not limited
to:
         [1]   Public inspection of documents as per §
175-36C of this chapter; and
         [2]   Filing of affidavit of proof of service and proof of publication
as per §
175-38E(7) of this chapter.
         (d)   All persons having an interest in the proposed development shall
be given an opportunity to be heard at the meeting.
      (10)   Notice of any hearing, public meeting or other formal proceeding
at which the Board will consider an application shall be given by the Board to
the Pinelands Commission, in writing, not less than five days prior to such
meeting, hearing or proceeding; said notice shall be in accordance with §
175-60D(2).
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989]
      (11)   If the Board requires any substantial amendment in the layout of
improvements proposed by the applicant that have been the subject of a hearing,
an amended application shall be submitted and acted upon as would be done in
the case of the original application.
      (12)   The Board shall act upon the application upon being satisfied that
it has sufficiently reviewed the application, that its professionals have
adequately reviewed the application, that the applicant has had sufficient
opportunity to present its request to the Board and that the interests of other
interested persons have been considered.
         (a)   The Board shall also be certain that the proposed site plan
complies with this chapter, the Municipal Land Use Act (N.J.S.A. 40:55D-1 et
seq.), the Pinelands Comprehensive Management Plan and all other applicable
statutes, regulations or ordinances.
         (b)   Where the remaining portion of the original tract is of
sufficient size to be developed further, the applicant may be required to
submit a concept plat of the entire remaining portion of the tract to indicate
a feasible plan whereby the applied for site plan, together with subsequent
site plans, may be submitted that will not create, impose or aggravate or lead
to any such adverse effect.
         (c)   The Board should not act upon the application until it has
determined the application complete.
      (13)   Action by Board.
         (a)   The Board shall grant or deny preliminary approval of:
            [1]   A site plan of 10 acres or less or 10 dwelling units or fewer
within 45 days of the date a complete application was determined to have been
submitted or within such further time as may be consented to by the applicant;
or
            [2]   A site plan which involves more than 10 acres or more than 10
dwelling units within 95 days of the date a complete application was determined
to have been submitted or within such further time as may be consented to by
the applicant.
         (b)   Upon failure of the Board to act within the aforementioned time
periods, the Board shall be deemed to have granted preliminary approval to the
subdivision.
      (14)   Such preliminary approval shall not take effect until the
requirements of §
175-60 of this article have been satisfied.
      (15)   Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, where any approval
results from the failure of the Board to act within the prescribed period, the
applicant shall provide notice to the Pinelands Commission, and the permit
shall not become effective until the requirements of §
175-60 of this article have been satisfied.
      (16)   Whenever review or approval of the application by the Atlantic
County Planning Board is required by N.J.S.A. 40:27-6.3, the Board shall
condition any approval that it grants upon timely receipt of a favorable report
on the application by the Atlantic County Planning Board or approval by the
Atlantic County Planning Board by its failure to report thereon within the
required time period.
      (17)   The effect of preliminary approval shall be as set forth in
Article XI of this chapter.
      (18)   The final decision and resolution of the Board shall be in
writing. Said decision and resolution shall be in accordance with §§
175-40 and
175-41 of this chapter. (See N.J.S.A. 40:55D-10g through 55D-10i.)
      (19)   Upon the granting of approval by the Board, copies of the approved
documents shall be sent to the:
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989]
         (a)   Applicant.
         (b)   Planning Board file.
         (c)   Board Engineer.
         (d)   Construction Code Official.
         (e)   Town Clerk.
         (f)   Tax Assessor.
         (g)   County Board of Health.
         (h)   Pinelands Commission.
         (i)   The Environmental Commission.
      (20)   The applicant shall submit a Traffic Impact Study for any major
site plan.
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   B.   Final review.
      (1)   Final major site plans, applications and required attachments shall
be submitted where the applicants proposed development meets the definitional
requirements for major site plan review and prior to the expiration of
preliminary major site approval of the subject land. The applicant may submit
for final approval, on or before the expiration date of preliminary approval,
the whole or a section or sections of the preliminary site plan.
      (2)   The applicant shall submit to the Board Secretary the following
items:
         (a)   Twelve copies of the final plat for the proposed major site plan
prepared in accordance with §
175-71 of Article IX, Plat Detail and Data, of this chapter.
         (b)   Three copies of the completed town and county application forms.
         (c)   Three copies of the protective covenants or deed restrictions
applying to the subject land as included in preliminary approval.
         (d)   The application and/or escrow fee and fee agreement in
accordance with §§
175-48 and
175-49 of this chapter.
         (e)   Two translucent tracing-cloth copies and one original
reproducible copy of the proposed major subdivision.
         (f)   A copy of either:
            [1]   Notification from the Pinelands Commission that review of the
Board's preliminary approval is not required; or
            [2]   Notification from the Pinelands Commission that it has
completed its review of the Board's preliminary approval pursuant to §
175-60; and the final order regarding the preliminary approval and review by
the Pinelands Commission.
[Amended 6-12-1989 by Ord. No. 19-1989]
         (g)   A certification by the Tax Collector's office that no taxes or
assessments for local improvements are due or delinquent on any portion of the
property involved in the development.
         (h)   If applicable, certification of corporation or partnership
involvement as per §
175-42B of this chapter.
         (i)   All changes or modifications required by the local agency in the
approval of the preliminary plat.
         (j)   Letters directed to the Chairman of the Board and signed by a
responsible official of the Sewer Department,  19 Board of Water Commissioners
and any other utility company or governmental authority or district which
provides accessory utility service and has jurisdiction in the area approving
each proposed utility installation design. The letter will state who will
construct the facility and that the service will be available prior to
occupancy.
         (k)   A map showing all improvements required by the preliminary
approval and showing what improvements, if any, have been installed. The plan
shall show all improvements in their exact location and elevation.
         (l)   Certifications.
            [1]   Certification must be provided by a licensed engineer that
all improvements required by this chapter have been installed; and/or
            [2]   Certification by the applicant that he has posted guaranties
for the purposes of assuring the installation and maintenance of on-tract
improvements as required by Article X of this chapter; this certification shall
be accompanied by copies of the required guaranty papers. (See N.J.S.A. 40:55D-
53.)
         (m)   Where improvements have been installed prior to the application,
there shall be a statement from the Board Engineer that all improvements
installed prior to application have been inspected as provided in Article X of
this chapter and that such improvements meet the requirements of the town. Any
improvements installed prior to application for final plat approval that do not
meet or exceed town standards shall be factored into the required performance
guaranty.
         (n)   Any additional documents as may be requested on the applicable
application form.
      (3)   The Board Secretary shall, immediately upon receipt, note the date
of receipt, mark the documents "filed" and assign a file number. Once a file
number has been assigned, such number must be placed by the applicant on all
papers, maps, plats and other documents submitted.
      (4)   The Board Secretary shall immediately forward one copy of all items
submitted by the applicant to the Board Engineer and Attorney, the County
Planning Board and the Environmental Commission.
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989]
      (5)   The Board Engineer shall first review the items received in order
to report to the Board as to the completeness of the application. Said Engineer
may also review said items as to other phases of the application for
development.
      (6)   The Board Engineer shall, as quickly as possible, report his
findings, in writing, to the Board.
      (7)   Upon receipt of the Board Engineer's report, the Board shall first
determine whether a complete application has been submitted. If the application
is found to be incomplete, the Board may deem it incomplete and return it to
the applicant to correct the deficiencies. After the deeming of an application
incomplete, the applicant may correct the deficiencies and resubmit all
required items.
      (8)   If the application is found to be complete, the Board shall
formally determine that a complete application has been submitted. Upon a
determination of completeness of an application for development, notice shall
be given by the Board to the Pinelands Commission in accordance with §
175-60D(1).
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989]
      (9)   From the date of determination of submission of a complete
application, the Board shall grant or deny final approval of the application
within 45 days or within such further time as may be consented to by the
applicant.
      (10)   Decision of the Board.
         (a)   Final approval shall be granted if the drawings, specifications
and estimates of the application for final approval conform to the standards
established by ordinance for final approval, the conditions of preliminary
approval and the standards prescribed by the Map Filing Law, N.J.S.A. 46:23-9.9
et seq., provided that in the case of a planned unit development or planned
unit residential development, the Board may permit minimal deviations from the
conditions of preliminary approval necessitated by change of conditions beyond
the control of the developer since the date of preliminary approval without the
developer being required to submit another application for development for
preliminary approval.
[Amended 3-25-2002 by Ord. No. 12-2002]
         (b)   The decision and resolution of the Board shall be in writing.
Said decision and resolution shall be in accordance with §§
175-40 and
175-41 of this chapter. (See N.J.S.A. 40:55-10g through 55-10i.)
      (11)   Notice of any hearing, public meeting or other formal proceeding
at which the Board will consider an application for development shall be given
by the Board to the Pinelands Commission, in writing, not less than five days
prior to such meeting, hearing or proceeding; said notice shall be in
accordance with §
175-60D(2).
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989; 6-12-1989 by Ord. No. 19-1989]
      (12)   The Board may condition final approval on terms ensuring the
provisions of improvements and performance in accordance with Articles X, XII
and XIII of this chapter. (See N.J.S.A. 40:55D-38 to 40:55D-40; N.J.S.A. 40:
55D-42 and N.J.S.A. 40:55D-53.)
      (13)   Whenever review or approval of the application by the Atlantic
County Planning Board is required by Section 5 of P.L. 1968, c. 285 (N.J.S.A.
40:27-6.6), the Board shall condition any approval that it grants upon timely
receipt of a favorable report on the application by the Atlantic County
Planning Board or approval by the Atlantic County Planning Board by its failure
to report thereon within the required time period.
      (14)   Failure of the Board to act within the period prescribed shall
constitute approval, and a certificate of the Board Secretary as to the failure
of the Board to act shall be issued on request of the applicant. Such
certificate shall be sufficient in lieu of the written endorsement or other
evidence or approval as herein required and shall be accepted by the Atlantic
County Clerk for purposes of filing subdivision plats.
      (15)   Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, where any approval
results from the failure of the Board to act within the prescribed period, the
application shall provide notice to the Pinelands Commission, and the permits
shall not become effective until the requirements of §
175-60 of this chapter have been satisfied.
      (16)   Upon the granting of site plan approval by the Board, copies of
the approved documents shall be sent to the:
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989]
         (a)   Applicant.
         (b)   Planning Board file.
         (c)   Board Engineer.
         (d)   Construction Code Official.
         (e)   Town Clerk.
         (f)   Tax Assessor.
         (g)   County Board of Health.
         (h)   Pinelands Commission, if property is in the Pinelands Area of
the Town of Hammonton.
         (i)   The Environmental Commission.
      (17)   The effect of final approval shall be as set forth in Article XI
of this chapter.
 
Notes
19 19.   Editor's Note: The Sewer Department was inactivated 1-24-2011 by Ord.
   No. 3-2011. See now Ch. 53, Public Utilities Department; Public Works Manager.
§ 175-59. Conditional use review.
   It is well recognized that certain uses, if located without proper
consideration to existing conditions or building types and surrounding
development, may have an adverse effect on the public health, safety and
general welfare of the community. These uses are designated as conditional uses
and are subject to the conditions hereby established.
[Amended 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   A.   Before any permit shall be issued for a conditional use, applications
shall be made to the Planning Board. The Planning Board shall grant or deny the
application after public hearing, but within 95 days of submission of a
complete application to the administrative officer or within such further time
as may be consented to by the applicant. Where a conditional use application
involves a site plan or subdivision, notice of the hearing shall include
reference to all matters being heard, and the Planning Board shall review and
approve or deny the subdivision or site plan simultaneously with the
conditional use application. Failure of the Planning Board to act within the
required time period shall constitute approval of the application. In reviewing
the conditional use application, the Planning Board shall consider and be
guided by the following. All technical representations shall be made by the
appropriate licensed professional.
      (1)   That use for which an application is being made is specifically
listed as a conditional use within the zone where the property is located.
      (2)   The design, arrangement and nature of the particular use is such
that the public health, safety and welfare will be protected and reasonable
consideration is afforded to: the compatibility of the proposed use(s) and/or
structure(s) within the existing neighborhood; the number of employees or users
of the property; the potential effect that the proposed use(s) and/or
structures will have upon property values; the adequacy of the proposed parking
and traffic circulation for the uses) and/or structure(s) and the potential for
traffic congestion and/or the creation of undue traffic hazards; the structural
location(s) and orientations; the need for such facility or use(s) to serve the
area in which it is to be located; the adequacy of proposed drainage facilities
which will serve the uses(s) and/or structures; the adequacy of plans for
screening any adverse aspects of the use(s) and/or structure(s) from adjoining
properties; and the adequacy of proposed outdoor lighting.
      (3)   Compliance with the design and performance standards pursuant to
Article XII of this chapter.
      (4)   Compliance with the standards, principles and objectives of the
Master Plan of the Town of Hammonton.
   B.   All conditional uses shall also be required to obtain site plan
approval, unless otherwise specified in this chapter.
   C.   Conditional uses shall adhere to the additional standards specified for
the particular use or building type under Article XII, except where no
additional standards are specified herein.
[Amended 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   D.   In all requests for approval of conditional uses, the burden of proof
shall be on the applicant. All conditional uses shall additionally require, at
a minimum, site plan review and approval by the Planning Board. The applicant
shall submit and the Board shall review an application for conditional use
approval in accordance with the procedures of §
175-62 of this chapter. In the granting of conditional uses, a time limit of
one year from the date of the approval shall be set within which time the owner
shall secure a building permit, otherwise the conditional use permit shall be
null and void.
§ 175-60. Pinelands Commission review.
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989; 11-19-2018 by Ord. No. 42-2018]
   A.   Applicability of procedures.
      (1)   No person shall carry out any development without obtaining
approval from an approving authority and without obtaining development approval
in accordance with the procedures set forth in this section.
      (2)   Except as provided in Subsection A(3) below, the following shall
not be subject to the procedures set forth in this chapter:
         (a)   The improvement, expansion or reconstruction within five years
of destruction or demolition, of any single-family dwelling unit or
appurtenance thereto.
         (b)   The improvement, expansion, construction or reconstruction of
any structure accessory to a single-family dwelling.
         (c)   The improvement, expansion, construction or reconstruction of
any structure used exclusively for agricultural or horticultural purposes.
         (d)   The construction, repair or removal of any sign, except for the
construction or replacement of any off-site commercial advertising sign.
         (e)   The repair of existing utility distribution lines.
[Amended 7-28-1997 by Ord. No. 10-1997]
         (f)   The clearing of less than 1,500 square feet of land.
         (g)   The construction of any addition or accessory structure for any
non- residential use or any multi-family residential structure provided that:  
[Amended 6-12-1989 by Ord. No. 19-1989]
            [1]   If the addition or structure will be located on or below an
existing impervious surface, either the existing use is served by public sewers
or the addition or structure will generate no wastewater flows, and said
addition or structure will cover an area of no more than 4,999 square feet; and
            [2]   If the addition or structure will not be located on or below
an impervious surface, said addition or structure will generate no wastewater
flows and will cover an area of no more than 1,000 square feet.
         (h)   The demolition of any structure that is less than 50 years old.
         (i)   The installation of utility distribution lines, except for
sewage lines, to serve areas which are effectively developed or development
which has received all necessary approvals and permits.
[Added 7-28-1997 by Ord. No. 10-1997]
         (j)   The repair or replacement of any existing on-site wastewater
disposal system.
[Added 7-28-1997 by Ord. No. 10-1997]
         (k)   The repaving of existing paved roads and other paved surfaces,
provided no increase in the paved width or area of said roads and surfaces will
occur.  
[Added 7-28-1997 by Ord. No. 10-1997]
         (l)   The clearing of land solely for agricultural or horticultural
purposes.
[Added 7-28-1997 by Ord. No. 10-1997]
         (m)   Fences, provided that no more than 1,500 square feet of land is
to be cleared.
[Added 7-28-1997 by Ord. No. 10-1997]
         (n)   Aboveground telephone equipment cabinets.
[Added 7-28-1997 by Ord. No. 10-1997]
         (o)   Tree pruning.
[Added 7-28-1997 by Ord. No. 10-1997]
         (p)   The following forestry activities:
[Added 7-28-1997 by Ord. No. 10-1997]
            [1]   Normal and customary forestry practices on residentially
improved parcels of land that are five acres or less in size;
            [2]   Tree harvesting, provided that no more than one cord of wood
per five acres of land is harvested in any one year and that no more than five
cords of wood are harvested from the entire parcel in any one year;
            [3]   Tree planting, provided that the area to be planted does not
exceed five acres in any one year, no soil disturbance occurs other than that
caused by the planting activity and no trees other than those authorized by
N.J.A.C. 7:50 - 6.25 are to be planted; and
            [4]   Forest stand improvement designed to selectively thin trees
and brush, provided that no clearing or soil disturbance occurs and that the
total land area on the parcel in which the activity occurs does not exceed five
acres in any one year.
         (q)   Prescribed burning and the clearing and maintaining of fire
breaks.
[Added 7-28-1997 by Ord. No. 10-1997]
         (r)   Normal and customary landscape plantings, unless a landscaping
plan is required pursuant to §
175-136E.
[Added 7-28-1997 by Ord. No. 10-1997]
         (s)   The installation of an accessory solar energy facility on any
existing structure or impervious surface.
         (t)   The installation of a local communications facilities antenna on
an existing communications or other suitable structure, provided such antenna
is not inconsistent with any comprehensive plan for local communications
facilities approved by the Pinelands Commission pursuant to N.J.A.C. 7:50-5.4
(c)6.
         (u)   The establishment of a home occupation within an existing
dwelling unit or structure accessory thereto, provided that no additional
development is proposed.
         (v)   The change of one nonresidential use to another nonresidential
use, provided that the existing and proposed uses are or will be served by
public sewers and no additional development is proposed.
      (3)   The exceptions contained in Subsection A(2) above shall not apply
to any historic resources designated by the Pinelands Commission pursuant to
N.J.A.C. 7:50-6.154.
      (4)   Nothing herein shall preclude any local or state agency from
reviewing, in accordance with the provisions of any applicable ordinance or
regulation, any proposed development which does not require an application to
the Pinelands Commission pursuant to this section.
   B.   Minor development application requirements. Any application for
approval of minor development shall include at least the following information:
      (1)   The applicant's name and address and his interest in the subject
property.
      (2)   The owner's name and address, if different from the applicant's,
and the owner's signed consent to the filing of the application.
      (3)   The legal description, including block and lot designation and
street address, if any, of the subject property.
      (4)   A description of all existing uses and building types of the
subject property.
[Amended 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
      (5)   A brief written statement generally describing the proposed
development.
      (6)   A United States Geological Survey Quadrangle Map or copy thereof
and a copy of the Municipal Tax Map sheet on which the boundaries of the
subject property and the Pinelands management area designation are shown.
      (7)   A plat or plan showing the location of all boundaries of the
subject property, the location of all proposed development and existing or
proposed facilities to provide water for the use and consumption of occupants
of all buildings and sanitary facilities which will serve the proposed
development. The following information shall be included with respect to
existing or proposed sanitary facilities:
         (a)   On-site treatment facilities: The location, size, type and
capacity of any proposed on-site wastewater treatment facilities.
         (b)   Soil borings and percolation tests: If on-site sewage disposal
is proposed, results of soil borings and percolation tests in accordance with
N.J.S.A. 58:11-23 et seq. and the regulations adopted pursuant thereto shall be
submitted at suitable location with a tract map showing location, logs,
elevations of all test holes, indicating where groundwater was encountered,
estimating the seasonal high-water table and demonstrating that such facility
is adequate to meet the water quality standards contained in Article XII of
this chapter.
      (8)   A location map, including the area extending at least 300 feet
beyond each boundary of the subject property, showing ownership boundary lines,
the boundary of the proposed development, owners of holdings adjoining and
adjacent to the subject property, existing facilities, buildings and structures
on the site, all proposed development, wetlands, streams, including
intermittent streams, rivers, lakes and other water bodies and existing roads.
      (9)   A soils map, including a county soils survey which conforms to the
guidelines of the United States Department of Agriculture Soil Conservation
Service, showing the location of all proposed development.
      (10)   A map showing existing vegetation, identifying predominant
vegetation types in the area and showing proposed landscaping of the subject
property, including the location of the tree line before and after development
and all areas to be disturbed as a result of the proposed development.
      (11)   A certificate of filing from the Pinelands Commission issued
pursuant to N.J.A.C. 7:50-4.34 or, until January 14, 1991, evidence of prior
approval from the Pinelands Development Review Board or the Pinelands
Commission pursuant to the Interim Rules and Regulations.
      (12)   When prior approval for the development has been granted by the
approving authority, evidence of Pinelands Commission review pursuant to this
section.
   C.   Certificate of filing other application requirements.
      (1)   No application for approval of any development located within the
Pinelands Area shall be deemed complete without receipt of a certificate of
filing from the Pinelands Commission pursuant to N.J.A.C. 7:50-4.34.
      (2)   Any application for approval of major development, except for
forestry operations, shall include at least the following information:
         (a)   The applicant's name and address and his interest in the subject
property.
         (b)   The owner's name and address, if different from the applicant's,
and the owner's signed consent to the filing of the application.
         (c)   The legal description, including block and lot designation and
street address, if any, of the subject property.
         (d)   A description of all existing uses of the subject property.
         (e)   A brief written statement generally describing the proposed
development; the number of total units; and the floor area of all units to be
included in the proposed development.
[Amended 7-28-1997 by Ord. No. 10-1997]
         (f)   A written statement addressing each of the standards or
guidelines set forth in this chapter; and stating specifically how the proposed
development meets each such standard or guideline.
         (g)   A plat or plan showing the location of all boundaries of the
subject property, the location of all proposed development and existing or
proposed facilities to provide water for the use and consumption of occupants
of all buildings and sanitary facilities which will serve the proposed
development. The following information shall be included with respect to
existing or proposed wastewater treatment facilities:
            [1]   Sanitary sewer distribution: The location, size and direction
of flow of all existing and proposed sanitary sewer lines and pumping stations
serving the proposed development and all existing and proposed connections to
existing facilities.
            [2]   On-site treatment facilities: The location, size, type and
capacity of any proposed on-site wastewater treatment facilities, including,
except with respect to discharges into an individual residential septic system,
quantities, composition, proposed pretreatment and ultimate means of disposal.
            [3]   Soil borings and percolation tests: If on-site sewage
disposal is proposed, results of soil borings and percolation tests in
accordance with the requirements of N.J.S.A. 58:11-23 et seq. and the
regulations adopted pursuant thereto shall be submitted with a tract map
showing the location, logs and elevations of all test holes, indicating where
groundwater was encountered and estimating the seasonal high-water table.
            [4]   The proposed hours and days of operation and number of
employees of any nonresidential facility.
         (h)   A project site base map, at a scale of no less than one inch to
200 feet and including the areas extending at least 300 feet beyond each
boundary of the subject property, showing ownership boundary lines, the
boundary of the proposed development, owners of holdings, if any, adjoining and
adjacent to the subject property, existing facilities, buildings and structures
on the site, all proposed development, wetlands, streams, including
intermittent streams, rivers, lakes and other water bodies and existing roads.
         (i)   A soils map, including a county soils survey in conformance with
the guidelines of the United States Department of Agriculture Soil Conservation
Service, at the same size and scale as the project site base map, delineating
all soil series at an appropriate level of detail and, in sewered projects,
sufficient soil borings to confirm the accuracy of the soils map.
         (j)   A slope map, at the same size and scale as the project site base
map, indicating contour elevations at two-foot intervals.
         (k)   A resource capability map, at the same size and scale as the
project site base map, indicating the cumulative limitations to development due
to the standards and the guidelines contained in this chapter. This map should
be prepared prior to any engineering, site layout or design work.
         (l)   A proposed development map, at the same size and scale as the
project site base map, showing areas of proposed development; the location of
surveyor's tape or other markers placed on the site delineating the boundaries
of the property; the number of residential lots and other type of development
in each general area; all proposed lot lines; areas proposed to be retained as
open space; the applicable land use areas boundaries; the location of proposed
facilities such as dams and impoundments, public or private water systems,
storm drainage systems, public or private sewerage systems, public utilities,
soil erosion and sedimentation control devices, industrial wastewater
discharges and solid waste disposal areas; sources of air pollution; the
proposed primary road network; all areas to be disturbed by construction
activities; existing vegetation, identifying the predominant vegetation types
in the area; and all vegetation which is to be removed or disturbed as a result
of the proposed development; and the tree line before and after development.
         (m)   A map, at the same size and scale as the project site base map,
showing stormwater drainage patterns and calculations and the applicant's
proposed stormwater run-off management plan, which shall contain results of all
percolation tests and soil borings performed in each recharge area, including
the estimated seasonal high-water table.
         (n)   Legal instruments evidencing the applicant's right, title or
interest in any Pinelands development credits and any existing or proposed deed
restrictions or easements relating to the subject parcel.
         (o)   A landscaping schedule and plan on a map, of the same size and
scale as the project site base map, identifying the species of plants to be
installed and the quantity and location of all plants proposed to be planted,
demonstrating that the landscaping will be carried out within six months of the
completion of construction and demonstrating that the landscaping will
stabilize soils.
         (p)   All public service infrastructure agreements or other
documentation evidencing the availability of electric, gas, water, sewer and
other necessary public service infrastructure.
         (q)   The cultural resources survey described in §
175-21.
         (r)   A list of all permits required for the proposed development from
county, municipal, state and federal agencies.
         (s)   A certificate of filing from the Pinelands Commission issued
pursuant to N.J.A.C. 7:50-4.34 or, until January 14, 1991, evidence of prior
approval from the Pinelands Development Review Board or the Pinelands
Commission pursuant to the Interim Rules and Regulations.
         (t)   When prior approval for the development has been granted by the
approving authority, evidence of Pinelands Commission review pursuant to this
section.
      (3)   Any application for approval of forestry operations shall be
subject to the requirements of §
175-104A.
   D.   Notices to the Pinelands Commission.
      (1)   Notice of application submission and modification. Written
notification shall be given by the town approval agency, by email or regular
mail, to the Pinelands Commission within seven days after a determination is
made by the approval agency that an application for development in the
Pinelands Area is complete or if a determination is made by the approval agency
that the application has been modified. Such notice shall contain:
         (a)   The name and address of the applicant.
         (b)   The legal description and street address, if any, of the
property which the applicant proposed to develop.
         (c)   A brief description of the proposed development including uses
and intensity of uses proposed. A brief description of the building types
proposed shall be included if development is located within Downtown Districts
or Gateway Districts.
[Amended 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
         (d)   The application number of the certificate of filing issued by
the Pinelands Commission and the date on which it was issued.
         (e)   The date on which the application, or any change thereto, was
filed and any application number or other identifying number assigned to the
application by the approval agency.
         (f)   The approval agency with which the application or change thereto
was filed.
         (g)   The content of any change made to the application since it was
filed with the Commission, including a copy of any revised plan or reports.
         (h)   The nature of the municipal approval or approvals being sought.
      (2)   Notice of hearings and meetings. Where a meeting, hearing, or other
formal proceeding on an application for development approval in the Pinelands
Area is required, the applicant shall provide notice to the Pinelands
Commission by email, regular mail or delivery of the same to the principal
office of the Commission not less than five days prior to such meeting, hearing
or other formal proceeding. Such notice shall contain at least the following
information:
         (a)   The name and address of the applicant.
         (b)   The application number of the certificate of filing issued by
the Pinelands Commission and the date on which it was issued.
         (c)   The date, time and location of the meeting, hearing or other
formal proceeding.
         (d)   The name of the approval agency or representative thereof which
will be conducting the meeting, hearing or other formal proceeding.
         (e)   Any written reports or comments received by the approval agency
on the application for development which have not been previously submitted to
the Commission.
         (f)   The purpose for which the meeting, hearing or other formal
proceeding is to be held.
      (3)   Notice of approvals and denials. The Pinelands Commission shall be
notified of all approvals or denials of development in the Pinelands Area,
whether the approval occurs by action or inaction of any approval agency or an
appeal of any agency’s decision. The applicant shall, within five days of the
approval or denial, give notice by email or regular mail to the Pinelands
Commission. Such notice shall contain the following information:
         (a)   The name and address of the applicant.
         (b)   The legal description and street address, if any, of the
property that the applicant proposed to develop.
         (c)   The application number of the certificate of filing issued by
the Pinelands Commission and the date on which it was issued.
         (d)   The date on which the approval or denial was issued by the
approval agency.
         (e)   Any written reports or comments received by the approval agency
on the application for development that have not been previously submitted to
the Commission.
         (f)   Any revisions to the application not previously submitted to the
Commission.
         (g)   A copy of the resolution, permit or other documentation of the
approval or denial. If the application was approved, a copy of any preliminary
or final plan, plot or similar document that was approved shall also be
submitted.
      (4)   Except as provided in §
175-61, the requirements of this Subsection D shall not apply to the issuance
of a preliminary zoning permit or a refusal to issue a preliminary zoning
permit for the development of a single-family dwelling on an existing lot of
record.
[Added 5-22-1995 by Ord. No. 12-1995]
   E.   Review by the Pinelands Commission.
      (1)   Upon receipt by the Pinelands Commission of a notice of approval
pursuant to Subsection D(3) above, the application for development approval
shall be reviewed in accordance with the provisions in N.J.A.C. 7:50-4.37
through 7:50-4.42. The approval of the town shall not be effective and no
development shall be carried out prior to a determination of whether the
development approval will be reviewed by the Commission. If the applicant is
notified that the Commission will review the application for development, no
development shall be carried out until such review has been completed.
      (2)   Pursuant to N.J.A.C. 7:50-4.1(b) and until January 14, 1991,
approvals issued by the Pinelands Development Review Board or the Pinelands
Commission under the Interim Rules and Regulations shall serve as the basis for
Pinelands Commission review of the local approval under this section.
      (3)   Although the Pinelands Commission shall be notified of all denials,
no such denial actions are subject to further review and action by the
Pinelands Commission.
      (4)   Except as provided in §
175-61, the requirements of this Subsection E shall not apply to the issuance
of a preliminary zoning permit or a refusal to issue a preliminary zoning
permit for the development of a single-family dwelling on an existing lot of
record. 
[Added 5-22-1995 by Ord. No. 12-1995]
   F.   Condition on prior approvals of the town. Where a prior approval has
been granted by the town, no subsequent approval of an application for
development approval shall be obtained until one of the following is satisfied:
      (1)   Notification is received from the Pinelands Commission that review
of the town's approval is not required; or
      (2)   Review of the town's approval has been completed pursuant to
N.J.A.C. 7:50-4.37 through 7:50-4.42 and a final order regarding the approval
is received by the town from the Pinelands Commission.
   G.   Effect of Pinelands Commission decision on town's approval.
      (1)   If the Pinelands Commission disapproves an application for
development previously approved by an approving authority, such approval shall
be revoked by the approving authority within 30 days, and the approving
authority shall thereafter deny approval of the application. If the Commission
approves the decision of an approving authority subject to conditions, the
approving authority which had previously approved the application shall, within
30 days, modify its approval to include all conditions imposed by the
Commission and, if final approval of the application is required, shall grant
final approval only if the application for approval demonstrates that the
conditions specified by the Commission have been met by the applicant.
      (2)   Except as provided in §
175-61, the requirements of this Subsection G shall not apply to the issuance
of a preliminary zoning permit or a refusal to issue a preliminary zoning
permit for the development of a single-family dwelling on an existing lot of
record. 
[Added 5-22-1995 by Ord. No. 12-1995]
   H.   Participation of Pinelands Commission in public hearings. The Pinelands
Commission may participate in a hearing held in the town involving the
development of land in the Pinelands Area pursuant to N.J.A.C. 7:50-4.36.
   I.   Environmental Commission review. All applications for major development
and forestry shall be referred to the Environmental Commission for review and
comment.
   J.    Public development. All development proposed by the town or any agency
thereof will comply with all the requirements for public development set forth
in N.J.A.C. 7:50-4.51 et seq. and all the standards set forth in Articles XII
and XIII of this chapter.
   K.    Amendments. In amending the town's Master Plan or this chapter, the
town shall comply with all of the requirements of N.J.A.C. 7:50-3.45.   
§ 175-61. Procedure for application for development of single-family dwellings.
[Added 5-22-1995 by Ord. No. 12-1995]
   A.   The Zoning Officer is hereby authorized and directed to issue
preliminary zoning permits as a prerequisite to the issuance of a construction
permit or other permits or approvals which are needed to develop a single-
family dwelling on an existing lot of record within the Town of Hammonton.
   B.   Applications for a preliminary zoning permit.
      (1)   An application for a preliminary zoning permit shall be submitted
to the Zoning Officer and shall include the following:
         (a)   The applicant's name and address and his interest in the subject
property.
         (b)   The applicant's signed certification that he is duly authorized
to submit the application, that the materials and information are accurate and
that duly authorized representatives of the Town of Hammonton and Pinelands
Commission are authorized to inspect the property.
         (c)   The owner's name and address, if different from the applicant's,
and the owner's signed consent to the filing of the application.
         (d)   The street address, if any, the Tax Map sheet and block and lot
number of the property.
         (e)   Proof that taxes for the property have been paid.
         (f)   Acreage of the property in square feet.
         (g)   A dated plot plan, with the scale noted, showing the following:
            [1]   The zoning district in which the property is located.
            [2]   The location and dimensions of all property lines, easements
affecting the property and streets abutting the property.
            [3]   The location of all yards and setbacks required pursuant to
Article XIII.
            [4]   The location and use of all existing structures and
improvements on the property and their intended disposition.
            [5]   A building envelope within which the single-family dwelling
is to be located.
            [6]   The location and dimensions of the proposed driveway.
            [7]   The location and dimensions of any proposed accessory
structures or improvements.
            [8]   The location and dimensions of the area in which any sewage
disposal system, including the disposal field, is proposed to be located.
            [9]   The location of any proposed water supply well.
         (h)   If proposed, certification that central sewer and/or water
service are available.
         (i)   If development of the property is proposed in accordance with
the density transfer program of §
175-145J, the street address, if any, the Tax Map sheet, block and lot number
and acreage in square feet of the noncontiguous property.
      (2)   The Zoning Officer is authorized to require such additional
information as may be necessary to determine compliance with this chapter. Such
information may include, but is not limited to, a soil boring in the area of
any proposed septage system disposal field, a wetland buffer map and
information to determine compliance with any permitted use requirement of this
chapter.
      (3)   The Zoning Officer is authorized to waive any of the aforementioned
application requirements if the information is not necessary to determine
compliance with this chapter.
      (4)   Within 14 days of receipt of an application, the Zoning Officer
shall determine whether the application is complete and, if necessary, notify
the applicant of any additional information which is necessary to complete the
application.
   C.   Permit decisions. Within 14 days of determining an application to be
complete, the Zoning Officer shall issue either a preliminary zoning permit or
a refusal to issue a preliminary zoning permit.
   D.   Preliminary zoning permit.
      (1)   A preliminary zoning permit shall be issued if.
         (a)   The Zoning Officer determines that the application is consistent
with the requirements of this chapter.
         (b)   A duly authorized representative of the Pinelands Commission
approves the Zoning Officer's determination and so signifies by signing the
preliminary zoning permit.
      (2)   A preliminary zoning permit shall expressly incorporate the plot
plan being approved, shall specify any conditions which the Zoning Officer
determines are necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter and shall
specify the expiration date of the permit.
      (3)   The Zoning Officer shall provide copies of the application and the
preliminary zoning permit to the Pinelands Commission within five days of the
issuance of the permit.
   E.   Effect of preliminary zoning permit.
      (1)   A preliminary zoning permit represents a determination that the
application meets the requirements of this chapter and the Pinelands
Comprehensive Management Plan, N.J.A.C. 7:50-1.1 et seq.
      (2)   A preliminary zoning permit shall be valid for two years and shall,
during that period, confer the following rights and privileges:
         (a)   The approved application shall not be subject to any substantive
revisions of the Code of the Town of Hammonton or the Pinelands Comprehensive
Management Plan, N.J.A.C. 7:50-1.1 et seq.
         (b)   Any subsequent approvals necessary for the development of the
single-family dwelling on the property may be sought without the need for a
certificate of filing from the Pinelands Commission.
      (3)   Any subsequent approvals to be sought, including but not limited to
construction permits, shall be subject to the notice, review and decision
requirements of §
175-60D through
175-60G.
   F.   Refusal to issue preliminary zoning permit.
      (1)   The Zoning Officer shall issue a refusal to issue a preliminary
zoning permit if any of the following are found to apply:
         (a)   A variance from the Code of the Town of Hammonton is required.
         (b)   A waiver of strict compliance from the Pinelands Comprehensive
Management Plan is required.
         (c)   The Zoning Officer determines that the application does not meet
the requirements of this chapter.
         (d)   The duly authorized representative of the Pinelands Commission
has not attested to the consistency of the application with the Pinelands
Comprehensive Management Plan, N.J.A.C. 7:50-1.1 et seq.
      (2)   A refusal to issue a preliminary zoning permit shall expressly
reference the reasons why the refusal was issued.
      (3)   When a refusal to issue a preliminary zoning permit is predicated
solely upon the need to obtain a variance, the Zoning Officer shall provide
copies of the application and the refusal to the Pinelands Commission within
five days of the issuance.
      (4)   When a refusal to issue a preliminary zoning permit is predicated
wholly or in part upon Subsection F(1)(b), (c) or (d) above, the Zoning Officer
shall provide the original application and a copy of the refusal to the
Pinelands Commission within five days of the issuance. The Pinelands Commission
shall thereafter process the application pursuant to the Pinelands
Comprehensive Management Plan, N.J.A.C. 7:50-1.1 et seq., and §
175-60D through
175-60G of the Code of the Town of Hammonton. In lieu of a preliminary zoning
permit, a certificate of filing from the Pinelands Commission shall thereafter
be required as a prerequisite to the issuance of a construction or other
permit.
   G.   Zoning Officer vacancy. Should the position of Zoning Officer become
vacant for any reason, the application procedures set forth in §
175-61 shall be of no force or effect, and the procedures of §
175-60 shall apply until the position has been filled.
§ 175-62. Conditional approvals.
   A.   In the event that an applicant submits an application for development
proposing a development that is barred or prevented, directly or indirectly, by
a legal action instituted by any state agency, political subdivision or other
party to protect the public health and welfare or by a directive or order
issued by any state agency, political subdivision or court of competent
jurisdiction to protect the public health and welfare, the reviewing board
shall continue to process such application for development in accordance with
this chapter and N.J.S.A. 40:55D-1 et seq. If such application for development
complies with this chapter, the board shall approve such application
conditioned on removal of such legal barrier to development.
   B.   In the event that the development proposed requires an approval by a
governmental agency other than the reviewing board, said board shall, in
appropriate instances, condition its approval upon the subsequent approval of
such other governmental agency, provided that the reviewing board shall make a
decision on any application for development within the time period provided in
this chapter or within an extension of such period as has been agreed to by the
applicant, unless the board is prevented or relieved from so acting by the
operation of law.
§ 175-63. Standards for development review.
   In reviewing any plan, the Board shall consider:
   A.   Pedestrian and vehicular traffic movement within and adjacent to the
site with particular emphasis on the provision and layout of parking areas,
off-street loading and unloading, movement of people, goods and vehicles from
access roads within the site, between buildings and between buildings and
vehicles. The Planning Board shall ensure that all parking spaces are usable
and are safely and conveniently arranged. Access to the site from adjacent
roads shall be designed so as to interfere as little as possible with traffic
flow on these roads and to permit vehicles a rapid and safe ingress and egress
to the site. All of the above shall be consistent with municipal, county and
state requirements.
   B.   The design and layout of buildings and parking areas shall be reviewed
so as to provide an aesthetically pleasing design and efficient arrangement.
Particular attention shall be given to safety and fire protection, impact on
surrounding development and contiguous and adjacent buildings and lands.
   C.   Adequate lighting shall be provided to ensure safe movement of persons
and vehicles and for security purposes. Lighting standards shall be a type
approved by the Planning Board. Directional lights shall be arranged so as to
minimize glare and reflection on adjacent properties.
   D.   Buffering shall be located around the perimeter of the site to minimize
headlights of vehicles, noise, light from structures, the movement of people
and vehicles and to shield activities from adjacent properties when necessary.
Buffering may consist of fencing, evergreens, shrubs, bushes, deciduous trees
or combinations thereof to achieve the stated objectives.
   E.   Landscaping shall be provided as part of the overall site plan design
and integrated into building arrangements, topography, parking and buffering
requirements. Landscaping shall include trees, bushes, shrubs, ground cover,
perennials, annuals, plants, sculpture, art and/or the use of building and
paving materials in an imaginative manner.
   F.   Signs shall be designed so as to be aesthetically pleasing, harmonious
with other signs on the site and located so as to achieve their purpose without
constituting hazards to vehicles and pedestrians.
   G.   Storm drainage, sanitary waste disposal, water supply and garbage
disposal shall be reviewed and considered. Particular emphasis shall be given
to the adequacy of existing systems and the need for improvements, both on-site
and off-site, to adequately carry runoff and sewage and to maintain an adequate
supply of water at sufficient pressure.
   H.   Environmental elements relating to soil erosion, preservation of trees,
protection of watercourses, and resources, noise, topography, soil and animal
life shall be reviewed and the design of the plan shall minimize any adverse
impact on these elements.
   I.   The extent to which the standards of the Pinelands Comprehensive
Management Plan have been observed in the design of the development.
   J.   The balance of costs to the town of servicing the project and the
revenues to be gained shall be considered in terms of the potential impact upon
tax rates.
   K.   Design standards for Downtown Districts and Gateway Districts, as per
Article XII, §
175-160.
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
ARTICLE IX
Plat Detail and Data
§ 175-64. Plat conformity required.
   No development application shall be accepted unless submitted in plat form,
and no plat shall be accepted for consideration unless it conforms to the
following requirements as to form, content and accompanying information and
complies with the provisions of N.J.S.A. 46:23-1 et seq.  16 (Map Filing Law),
as amended. All plats shall be prepared by a land surveyor as required by law,
licensed to practice in the State of New Jersey, and shall bear the signature,
seal, license number and address of the land surveyor. All drawings of
improvements and/or technical information shall be prepared, signed and sealed
by a licensed professional engineer of the State of New Jersey.
 
Notes
16 16.   Editor's Note: N.J.S.A. 46:23-1 was repealed by L. 1953, c. 358, p.
   1941, § 7, effective January 1, 1954. See now N.J.S.A. 46:23-9.9 et seq.
§ 175-65. Conceptual plan.
   A conceptual review of any type of proposed development may be submitted to
the Planning Board. This informal submission is optional. The purpose of such a
submission is for informal discussion to review overall development concepts in
order to assist in the preparation of subsequent formal submissions. A
submission shall include the following information:
   A.   A conceptual plan must show the lot lines, proposed building(s),
proposed use(s), parking, loading, on-site circulation, driveways, wooded
areas, streams, approximate flood hazard area, contours based on United States
Geological Survey or similarly available datum, approximate on-site stormwater
detention facilities and water and sewer service.
   B.   The conceptual plan of a major subdivision for the purposes of
classification and discussion must contain as a minimum the following
information:
      (1)   It shall be titled as such and shall be based on Tax Map
information or some other similarly accurate base, at a graphic scale of not
less than one inch equals 200 feet.
      (2)   It shall further include the following information:
         (a)   Lot line dimensions measured to the nearest whole foot and
contours shall be based on United States Geological Survey or similarly
available datum.
         (b)   The location of that portion which is to be subdivided in
relation to the entire tract.
         (c)   A tentative lot and street layout, with dimensions, and all
streets, roads, streams, watercourses and drainage rights-of-way.
   C.   A conceptual plat is not required to be in conformity with the Map
Filing Law.
§ 175-66. Minor subdivision plat.
   The submitted minor subdivision plat shall be based on Tax Map information
or some other similarly accurate base and shall be neatly and accurately drawn
at an approximate scale of not more than 200 feet to the inch on one of four of
the following standard sheet sizes: 81/2 by 13 inches; 15 by 21 inches; 24 by
36 inches; 30 by 42 inches; to enable the entire tract to be shown on one
sheet. The following information shall also be included:
   A.   The location of that portion which is to be subdivided in relation to
the entire tract.
   B.   All existing structures and wooded lands within the area to be
subdivided and within 200 feet thereof, and the shortest distance from any
existing structure to any proposed and existing lot line.
   C.   The name of the owner and all adjoining property owners as disclosed by
the most recent municipal tax records.
   D.   The Tax Map, block and lot numbers and the subdivision application
number.
   E.   All existing and proposed streets within 200 feet of the area to be
subdivided for minor subdivisions with rights-of-way and names indicated.
   F.   All subdivisions including more than 5.0 acres or which contain natural
drainage ways or soils of poor drainage characteristics must show contours as
shown on United States Geological Survey topographic survey sheets.
   G.   All proposed lot lines and existing lot lines proposed to be
eliminated.
   H.   The location and approximate size of all bridges and culverts and the
location, direction of flow and approximate drainage area of all streams,
brooks, ponds, wet-weather swales and ditches in the area to be subdivided and
within 200 feet of the area to be subdivided for minor subdivisions.
   I.   A general description of the proposed drainage facilities.
   J.   The location and width of all existing and proposed utility easements
in the area to be subdivided.
   K.   The zoning district within which the proposed subdivision is located.
If more than one zoning district is involved, the plat shall indicate the
district line(s).
   L.   North arrow.
   M.   Scale of plat and date of latest revision.
   N.   Acreage of the entire tract and the area being subdivided to the
nearest tenth of an acre; square footage shall be shown when areas to be
subdivided are less than 3.2 acres.
   O.   The number of new lots created.
   P.   The names, addresses, phone numbers and signatures of the owner,
subdivider and person preparing the plat.
   Q.   The signature, seal and license number and address of the person
preparing the plat.
   R.   A key map showing the entire subdivision and its relation to
surrounding areas at a scale of not more than 2,000 feet to the inch.
   S.   A plat or plan showing the location of all boundaries of the subject
property, the location of all proposed development and existing or proposed
facilities to provide water for the use and consumption of occupants of all
buildings and sanitary facilities which will serve the proposed development.
The following information shall be included with respect to existing or
proposed sanitary facilities:
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989]
      (1)   On-site treatment facilities: The location, size, type and capacity
of any proposed on-site wastewater treatment facilities.
      (2)   Soil borings and percolation tests: If on-site sewage disposal is
proposed, results of soil borings and percolation tests in accordance with
N.J.S.A. 58:11-23 et seq., and the regulations adopted pursuant thereto, shall
be submitted at suitable location with a tract map showing location, logs,
elevations of all test holes, indicating where groundwater was encountered,
estimating the seasonal high-water table and demonstrating that such facility
is adequate to meet the water quality standards contained in Article XII of
this chapter.
   T.   A soils map, including a county soils survey which conforms to the
guidelines of the United States Department of Agriculture Soil Conservation
Service, showing the location of all proposed development.
   U.   A map showing existing vegetation, identifying predominant vegetation
types in the area, and showing proposed landscaping of the subject property,
including the location of the tree line before and after development and all
areas to be disturbed as a result of the proposed development
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989]
§ 175-67. Preliminary major subdivision and planned development plans.
[Amended 3-25-2002 by Ord. No. 12-2002]
   The preliminary plans shall be clearly and legibly drawn or reproduced at a
scale of not less than one inch equals 100 feet unless otherwise specified. All
plans shall be designed in compliance with the provisions of this chapter and
shall show or be accompanied by the following information on existing and
proposed features:
   A.   A location map drawn at a scale of either one inch equals 1,000 feet or
one inch equals 2,000 feet and showing the location of the entire site and its
relation to the surrounding areas. Such map shall show all existing land uses
within 500 feet of the site.
   B.   Site characteristics maps showing all woodlands, significant individual
trees (over 16 inches diameter at breast height), existing streams, ponds and
any other watercourses, wetlands and floodplains, as defined by this chapter,
and historically, culturally and/or archaeologically significant structure or
resource, the topography of the site at two-foot contours and data relating to
the soil types present on the site, including the location and results of all
soil borings.
   C.   A preliminary site plan of the project site at the scale required above
showing:
      (1)   The tract name, Tax Map sheet, block and lot number in a title
block; meridians; North arrow; written and graphic scales; the names,
addresses, phone numbers and signatures of the owner and subdivider; the names
of all property owners within 200 feet of the extreme limits of the
development, as disclosed by the most recent municipal tax records; the name
and address of the preparer of the map and his professional seal and signature;
the development application number; and the date of original preparation and of
each subsequent revision thereof.
      (2)   The acreage of the original tract being subdivided measured to the
nearest one thousandth of an acre and the number of the new lots created.
      (3)   The zoning district within which the proposed subdivision is
located. If more than one zoning district is involved, the plan shall indicate
the district line(s).
      (4)   The locations and dimensions of existing and proposed railroad
rights-of-way, bridges and natural features, such as wooded areas, and any
extensive rock formations, both within the tract and within 200 feet of its
boundaries.
      (5)   All proposed lots, including existing lot lines to remain and those
to be eliminated and all setback lines required by the Zoning Ordinance with
the dimensions thereof, and the areas of all lots shown measured to the nearest
square foot. Any lot(s) to be reserved or dedicated to public use shall be
identified in the proposed use of lots for other than residential developments
and shall be shown.
      (6)   Locations of all existing structures showing existing and proposed
front, rear and side yard setback distances and an indication of whether the
existing structures and uses will be retained or removed.
      (7)   The names, locations and dimensions (cartway and right-of-way
widths) of all streets, both existing and proposed, within a distance of 500
feet from the boundaries of the subdivision, showing any connections from the
proposed streets to existing streets and to those proposed arterial and
collector streets as shown on the Master Plan or Official Map, as adopted.
   D.   A preliminary stormwater management plan at the same scale as the site
plan showing:
      (1)   All existing and proposed watercourses, including lakes and ponds,
including water level elevations.
      (2)   Cross sections of watercourses and/or drainage swales at an
approximate scale showing the extent of floodplain, top of bank, normal water
levels and bottom elevations at the following locations:
         (a)   At any point where a watercourse crosses a boundary of the
development.
         (b)   At fifty-foot intervals for a distance of 500 feet upstream and
downstream of any proposed and/or existing culvert or bridge within the
subdivision and within 1,000 feet downstream of the development.
         (c)   At fifty-foot intervals up to 500 feet upstream and downstream
of any point of juncture of two or more watercourses within 1,000 feet of the
development.
         (d)   At a maximum of five-hundred-foot intervals, but not less than
two locations along each watercourse which runs through or within 500 feet of
the development.
         (e)   When ditches, streams or watercourses are to be altered,
improved or relocated, the method of stabilizing slopes and measures to control
erosion and siltation, as well as typical ditch section profiles, shall be
shown on the plat or accompany it. Where the Universal Soil Equation indicates
a tract soil loss during construction in excess of 10 tons per acre per year,
an erosion-sedimentation control plan in conformity with the recommendations of
the Soil Conservation Service shall be furnished to and approved by the Board
Engineer.
         (f)   The boundaries of the floodplains of all watercourses within or
adjacent to the development.
      (3)   The total acreage in the drainage basin of any watercourse running
through or adjacent to a development in the area upstream of the development.
      (4)   The total acreage in the drainage basin to the nearest downstream
drainage structure and the acreage in the development which drains to the
structure.
      (5)   The location and extent of drainage and conservation easements and
stream encroachment lines.
      (6)   All existing or proposed storm sewer lines within or adjacent to
the development showing size and profile of the lines, direction of flow and
the location of each catch basin, inlet, manhole, culvert and headwall.
      (7)   The location and extent of any proposed dry wells, groundwater
detention basins, retention basins or other water or soil conservation devices.
      (8)   Data showing that the developed tract will not discharge stormwater
to contiguous neighbors in quantity and rate (cubic feet per second) that
exceeds the tract discharge in its natural undeveloped state. The quantity of
natural and undeveloped discharge shall be determined utilizing natural and
developed parameters and an intensity of six inches of rainfall and/or a fifty-
year, twenty-four-hour storm. The excess stormwater shall be suitably detained
and discharged at a controlled rate not to exceed the above-mentioned natural
site discharge. The detention devices' performance shall also be investigated
for storms of lesser frequency. If no watercourse is available for discharge, a
retention basin with groundwater recharge may be permitted after the applicant
has demonstrated the feasibility of successful operations.
      (9)   A plan showing all on-site watershed divides and the appropriate
drainage areas to the various collection system inlets, superimposed on a site
plan of the development.
   E.   A preliminary utilities plan at the same scale of the site plan
showing:
      (1)   The location of existing utility structures, such as water and
sewer mains, gas transmission lines and high tension power lines on the
subdivision and within 200 feet of its boundaries.
      (2)   Plans of proposed improvements and utility layouts, including
sewer, water, storm drains, gas, telephone, television and electricity, showing
feasible connections to any proposed utility systems. If private utilities are
proposed, they shall comply fully with all township, county and state
regulations. If service will be provided by an existing utility company, a
letter from that company stating that service will be available before
occupancy will be sufficient. When individual on-lot water or sewage disposal
is proposed, the plan for such system shall be approved by the appropriate
township and state agencies, and the results of percolation tests shall be
submitted with the preliminary plat under conditions designated by the County
Board of Health. Where applicable, the utility company letter must indicate
that wet hookups will be available for each subdivided lot.
   F.   Plans, typical cross sections, center-line profiles, tentative grades
and details of all proposed streets and of the existing streets abutting the
development based on the vertical datum specified by the Board Engineer,
including curbing, sidewalks, storm drains and drainage structures. Sight
triangles, the radii of curbline and street sign locations shall be clearly
indicated at intersections.
   G.   A copy of any protective covenants or deed restrictions applying to the
land being subdivided shall be submitted with the preliminary plat and
application.
   H.   In the case of a planned and/or cluster development, the application
for preliminary approval shall contain, in addition to the items specified
above, the following:
      (1)   Common open space map at a scale the same as the site plan showing
all areas of the site to be designated as common open space and the designation
of each area according to its proposed use, and the type, size and general
location of planting or other screening techniques to be used in designated
buffer areas. The map shall also denote the size of each designated area in
acres and the total common open space area in acres and as a percentage of the
site, in conformance with Article XIII of this chapter.
      (2)   An open space report outlining the form of organization proposed to
own and maintain the common open space in conformance with this chapter and
identifying how the common open space and facilities relate to existing and
proposed town open space areas and facilities.
      (3)   A sewer and water report containing an explanation of plans to tie
into existing sewer and water facilities, including the status of efforts to
have such tie-ins approved by the appropriate authorities, and calculations of
the water demand and sewage generation anticipated from the proposed
development using the standards of this chapter. Based on these calculations
and the existing excess capacities of existing sewer and water systems, the
applicant shall, if pertinent, describe what improvements shall be implemented
to increase the capacities to meet the anticipated demands.
      (4)   A traffic report containing calculations of the number of motor
vehicles expected to enter or leave the site for an average peak hour, and an
evaluation of the ability of the internal circulation plan and the external
access roadways, including the two nearest intersections on collector roadways,
to handle this anticipated traffic, made by a qualified traffic engineer. In
addition, the report shall explain how road layout relates to terrain and the
reasons for any proposed deviations from the town's design standards.
      (5)   Development schedule data if the proposed construction is to extend
over more than one year.
         (a)   A schedule map at the same scale as the site plan showing the
location of each successive annual phase of the development.
         (b)   A schedule report listing by each annual phase the number of
residential units by type, the anticipated sales price of each unit type, the
total value of residential development, the square footage of commercial
construction and its value, the type of open space structures and improvements
and the value of public improvements installed by the applicant for dedication
to the town, its various departments or other governmental agencies.
      (6)   A fiscal impact report indicating the impact of the project on town
services, the cash flow of the project and an indication of the pro rata share
of necessary improvements.
      (7)   A modification report, if applicable, showing the modifications of
town standards requested, along with supporting documentation.
§ 175-68. Final plat for major subdivision and planned development.
[Amended 3-25-2002 by Ord. No. 12-2002]
   A.   The final plat for major subdivisions shall be drawn in accordance with
the requirements for preliminary plats specified in this chapter. The final
plat shall show or be accompanied by the same information required for
preliminary plat approval in addition to the following:
      (1)   Tract boundary lines; exterior lines or streets; easements and
other rights-of-way; street names; land reserved or dedicated to public use;
all lot lines and other site lines with accurate dimensions, bearings or
deflection angles; and radii, arcs and central angles of all curves based on an
actual survey by a land surveyor licensed to practice in the State of New
Jersey. All dimensions of the exterior boundaries of the subdivision shall be
balanced and closed to a precision of 1:10,000 and the dimensions of all lot
lines to within one to 1:20,000. All dimensions, angles and bearings must be
tied to at least two permanent monuments not less than 300 feet apart, and all
information shall be indicated on the plat.
      (2)   At least one corner of the subdivision shall be tied to United
States Geological Survey bench marks with data on the plat as to how the
bearings were determined.
      (3)   Block and lot numbers in accordance with established standards and
in conformity with the Town Tax Map. Services of the Board Engineer will be
available to the developer to assist him in the assignment of lot and block
numbers; the Engineer's fee for such service is to be paid by the developer.
      (4)   Cross sections, profiles and established grades of all streets as
approved by the Town Engineer.
      (5)   Plans and profiles of all storm and sanitary sewers and water mains
as approved by the Board Engineer.
   B.   In the case of a planned development, the application for final
approval shall contain the following, unless waived by the Planning Board:
      (1)   A comparison of the final plan to the development schedule approved
as part of the tentative plan, noting any changes or variations from the
approved schedule and indicating the scope of the change(s), particularly any
change in the total number of dwelling units to be constructed, the number by
type of dwelling units to be constructed, the number of square feet of
commercial uses to be constructed, the number by type of community facilities
to be constructed, the acreage of common open space, the nature and cost of
public improvements to be produced and the anticipated values of residential
and commercial construction. If applicable, a report documenting the nature and
reasons for the changes shall also be submitted.
      (2)   A land use plan at a scale of one inch equals 50 feet, including:
         (a)   A closed boundary survey of the total land area to be developed
with area measurements to an accuracy of 0.10 acre.
         (b)   Locations of existing and proposed permanent monuments.
         (c)   Location, type and description of existing buildings, roads,
easements, watercourses and drainage ways on and adjacent to the development
area.
         (d)   Location and dimensions of all parking areas, proposed buildings
and other structures.
         (e)   Horizontal alignment and geometry and clear sight dimensions for
all proposed roads and intersections.
         (f)   Location of easements and areas to remain as commonly held or
publicly held open space.
         (g)   Certification by a licensed land surveyor and/or professional
engineer.
      (3)   A clearing, grading and drainage plan at a scale of one inch equals
50 feet showing:
         (a)   Location and defined limits of all clearing and/or removal of
vegetative cover.
         (b)   Existing and proposed grades within the development area at a
contour interval of two feet.
         (c)   Location and proposed grades and elevations for all buildings,
roads, walks, storm sewers and other drainage structures and devices, retaining
walls and other landscape constructions.
         (d)   Profiles of existing and proposed grades for roads, storm sewers
and swales, abutting and within the site.
         (e)   Cross sections and typical construction details for all existing
and proposed buildings, roads, drives, parking areas, walks, drainage
facilities and other construction elements within the site.
      (4)   A utilities system plan at a scale of one inch equals 50 feet
showing:
         (a)   Type and description of all utility lines located by dimensions.
         (b)   Location and elevation of all manholes, inlets, catch basins,
hydrants and light standards.
         (c)   Profiles of existing and proposed grades for sanitary sewer and
water lines.
         (d)   Location and typical construction details for utilities and
easements.
         (e)   Certification by a New Jersey licensed professional engineer.
      (5)   Common open space organization documents. These documents shall
show conformance with the provisions of Article XII of this chapter and shall
include:
         (a)   Articles of incorporation for any homeowners' association,
condominium association or other organization to maintain the common open space
or community facilities.
         (b)   Bylaws and membership rules and regulations of any such
organization defining its rights, duties and responsibilities.
         (c)   A copy of the master deed detailing the rights and privileges of
individual owners in the areas of common open space.
         (d)   Covenants or easements restricting the use of the common open
space.
         (e)   Covenants or agreements requiring homeowners or residents to pay
the organization for the maintenance of the common open space and/or community
facilities. This shall include a proposed schedule of membership fees for at
least the first three years of operations.
      (6)   Other covenants and easements. These documents shall include any
easements or covenants affecting any land in the development other than those
easements and covenants already specified in Subsection B(5) of this section.
      (7)   Other maintenance agreements. These documents shall include any
easements or proposed agreements under which private roads will be maintained,
refuse collected or other supplementary services provided.
      (8)   Offer of dedication. The offer of dedication shall include all
legal requirements for a valid dedication to the town or, where appropriate, to
another governmental or public body of roads or other improvements intended for
public ownership.
§ 175-69. Minor site plan.
   A.   Plats submitted for minor site plan approval shall be as follows:
      (1)   Each site plan submitted for approval shall be at a scale of one
inch equals 50 feet for a tract up to 40 acres in size; one inch equals 100
feet for a tract between 40 and 150 acres; and one inch equals 200 feet for a
tract 150 acres or more.
      (2)   All plans shall be certified by a licensed architect or engineer,
including accurate lot lines certified by a land surveyor, submitted on one of
the following standard sheet sizes: 81/2 by 13 inches; 15 by 21 inches; 24 by
36 inches; or 30 by 42 inches, and including the following data (if one sheet
is not sufficient to contain the entire territory, the map may be divided into
sections to be shown on separate sheets of equal sizes, with reference on each
sheet to the adjoining sheets): boundaries of the tract; North arrow; date;
scale; zone districts in which the lot(s) are located; existing and proposed
streets and street names; existing and proposed contour lines based on United
States Geological Survey data and topographical surveys not older than two
years at five-foot intervals inside the tract and within 200 feet of any paved
portion of the tract; title of plans, existing and proposed streams and
easements; total building coverage in area and percent of lot; total number of
parking spaces; all dimensions needed to conform to this chapter, such as but
not limited to buildings, lot lines, parking spaces, setbacks and yards; a
small key map giving the general location of the parcel to the remainder of the
municipality; and the site relation to all remaining lands in the applicant's
ownership.
   B.   The plat submitted for approval shall have the following minimum
requirements for review and approval:
      (1)   Size, height, location and arrangement of all existing and proposed
buildings, structures and signs in accordance with the requirements of this
chapter, including a licensed architect's and/or engineer's drawing of each
building or a typical building and sign showing front, side and rear views and
the proposed use of all structures.
      (2)   Proposed circulation plans, including access streets, curbs, aisles
and lanes, easements, fire lanes, driveways, parking spaces, loading areas,
loading berths or docks, pedestrian walks and all related facilities for the
movement and storage of goods, vehicles and persons on the site and including
the location of lights, lighting standards and signs and driveways within the
tract and within 100 feet of the tract. Sidewalks shall be provided from each
building entrance/exit along expected paths of pedestrian travel, such as but
not limited to access to parking lots, driveways or other buildings where
pedestrian traffic can be expected to be concentrated. Plans shall be
accompanied by cross sections of new streets, aisles, lanes and driveways,
which shall adhere to the applicable requirements and design standards of this
chapter.
      (3)   Existing and proposed wooded areas, buffer areas and landscaping
shall be shown on the plan. The landscaping plan, including seeded and/or
sodded areas, grading, retaining walls, fencing, signs, recreation areas,
shrubbery, trees and buffer areas shall be in accordance with applicable
requirements of this chapter. These plans shall show the location, species and
caliper of plant material for all planted or landscaped areas. Landscaping
plans shall incorporate the elements set forth in §
175-136E.
[Amended 7-28-1997 by Ord. No. 10-1997]
      (4)   Utilities.
         (a)   The proposed location of all drainage (including calculations),
sewage and water facilities with proposed grades, sizes, capacities and types
of materials to be used, including any drainage easements acquired or required
across adjoining properties. The method of sewage and waste disposal and waste
incineration, if any, shall be shown; percolation tests and test borings from
sufficient locations on the site to allow a determination of adequacy shall be
included where septic tanks and leaching fields are permitted and are proposed.
Such plans shall be reviewed by the Board of Health and Board Engineer and/or
other appropriate authority, as applicable, with recommendations to the
Planning Board.
         (b)   Proposed lighting facilities shall be included, showing the
direction and reflection of the lighting. All public services shall be
connected to an approved public utilities system where one exists.
         (c)   The applicant shall arrange with the servicing utility for the
underground installation for the utility's distribution, supply lines and
service connections, in accordance with the provisions of the applicable
standard terms and conditions incorporated as part of its tariff as the same
are then on file with the State of New Jersey Board of Public Utility
Commissioners, and the developer shall provide the town with four copies of a
final plan showing the installed location of the utilities.
         (d)   The applicant shall submit to the Board, prior to the granting
of final approval, a written instrument from each serving utility, which shall
evidence full compliance or intended full compliance with the provisions of
this subsection; provided, however, that lots which abut existing streets where
overhead electric or telephone distribution supply lines and service
connections have heretofore been installed may be supplied with electric and
telephone service from these overhead lines, but any new service connections
from the utility's overhead lines shall be installed underground. In cases
where total electrical and telephone load and service cannot be determined in
advance, such as industrial parks, shopping centers, etc., perimeter utility
poles may be used, but service to buildings from poles shall be underground.
      (5)   A written description of the proposed operations of the building
(s), including the number of employees or members of nonresidential buildings;
the proposed number of shifts to be worked and the maximum number of employees
on each shift; expected truck and tractor-trailer traffic, emission of noise,
glare and air and water pollution; safety hazards; and anticipated expansion
plans incorporated in the building design. Where the applicant cannot furnish
the information required herein because of nondetermination of use, site plan
approval may be required and, if conditionally granted subject to further
review and approval of the applicant's final plans, the applicant may proceed
with his application. No certificate of occupancy shall be issued until all
such plans are given final approval.
   C.   The applicant may request waivers from any of the required details
based upon unique or particular conditions pertaining to the property or
intended use. Such evidence shall be presented which shall indicate to the
Board that the requested waivers will not affect the Board's ability to make
informed decisions concerning the impact of the intended use upon the adjacent
property owners, neighborhood, utility systems, traffic and other elements of
concern to the Board.
§ 175-70. Preliminary major site plan.
   A.   An applicant shall submit a preliminary site plan in tentative form for
discussion purposes in conformity with the following minimum requirements:
      (1)   The preliminary site plan shall be drawn to a scale no less than
one inch equals 100 feet, but consideration shall be given to a smaller scale
if it permits the total project to be clearly depicted on a standard sheet of
the sizes permitted in the Map Filing Law. Editor's Note: See N.J.S.A. 46:23-
9.9 et seq.
      (2)   All plans shall be certified by a licensed architect or engineer,
including accurate lot lines certified by a licensed land surveyor in the State
of New Jersey.
      (3)   The plan shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
         (a)   A deed plotting of the tract may be submitted in lieu of an
actual field survey of the lot lines, but the applicant accepts the
responsibility that at final submission, if the accuracy of said deed plotting
sufficiently alters the intent of the proposal, the Board shall reserve the
right to reject the final submittal without prejudice and require a resubmittal
for preliminary approval.
         (b)   Topographic contours from the United States Geological Survey
quadrangle sheets may be submitted in lieu of an actual field or aerial
topographical survey, or the applicant may opt to furnish same. Contours shall
extend 200 feet beyond the boundary of the proposal. All existing streams that
will receive, either directly or indirectly, the tract stormwater runoff shall
be indicated. A key plan of a smaller scale may be shown if it is not
practicable to indicate it on the site plan.
         (c)   All dimensions needed to confirm conformity to appropriate
zoning ordinances, and other zoning criteria, i.e., density, land coverage,
etc., shall be indicated.
         (d)   All contiguous owners, existing dedicated streets (ownership and
route numbers if applicable), existing wooded areas in outline only and
geophysical conditions of any open or recreation space to be dedicated for
public or quasi-public use.
         (e)   An architectural plan and views of each type of building shall
be furnished and certified by an architect licensed in the State of New Jersey.
         (f)   Proposed circulation plans, including access streets, easements,
fire lanes and a typical section of all major cart ways proposed shall be
required.
         (g)   The proposed location of all storm drainage and wastewater
collection and potable water supply shall be indicated in a schematic phase
including the use of stormwater detention facilities, if proposed. The location
and size of all existing utilities to be utilized for the proposal shall be
clearly indicated on the preliminary site plan.
         (h)   Size, height, location and arrangement of all existing and
proposed buildings, structures and signs in accordance with the requirements of
this chapter.
   B.   The plan shall be signed by the applicant and owner and include
respective names and addresses.
§ 175-71. Final major site plan.
   Plats submitted for final major site plan approval shall be as follows:
   A.   Each plan shall be at a scale of one inch equals 50 feet for a tract up
to 40 acres in size; one inch equals 100 feet for a tract between 40 and 150
acres; and one inch equals 200 feet for a tract 150 acres or more. All plans
shall be certified by a licensed architect or engineer, including accurate lot
lines certified by a licensed land surveyor, submitted on one of the following
standard sheet sizes: 81/2 by 13 inches; 15 by 21 inches; 24 by 36 inches; or
30 by 42 inches;
   B.   The plat shall include the following data (if one sheet is not
sufficient to contain the entire territory, the map may be divided into
sections to be shown on separate sheets of equal sizes, with reference on each
sheet to the adjoining sheets): boundaries of the tract; North arrow; date;
scale; zone district(s) in which the lot(s) are located; existing and proposed
streets and street names; existing and proposed contour lines based on United
States Geological Survey data and topographical surveys not older than two
years, at two-foot intervals inside the tract and within 200 feet of any paved
portion of the tract; title of plans; existing and proposed streams and
easements; total building coverage in area and percent of lot; total number of
parking spaces; all dimensions needed to confirm conformity to this chapter,
such as but not limited to buildings, lot lines, parking spaces, setbacks and
yards; a small key map giving the general location of the parcel to the
remainder of the municipality; and the site relation to all remaining lands in
the applicant's ownership.
   C.   The plan shall also have the following minimum criteria for review and
approval:
      (1)   Size, height, location and arrangement of all existing and proposed
buildings, structures and signs in accordance with the requirements of this
chapter, including a licensed architect's and/or engineer's drawing of each
building or a typical building and sign showing front, side and rear elevations
and the proposed use of all structures.
      (2)   Proposed circulation plans, including access streets, curbs, aisles
and lanes, easements, fire lanes, driveways, parking spaces, loading areas,
loading berths or docks, pedestrian walks and all related facilities for the
movement and storage of goods, vehicles and persons on the site and including
the location of lights, lighting standards and signs and driveways within the
tract and within 100 feet of the tract. Sidewalks shall be provided from each
building entrance/exit along expected paths of pedestrian travel, such as but
not limited to access to parking lots, driveways or other buildings where
pedestrian traffic can be expected to be concentrated. Plans shall be
accompanied by cross sections of new streets, aisles, lanes and driveways,
which shall adhere to applicable requirements of this chapter and applicable
design standards in the subdivision ordinance.
      (3)   Existing and proposed wooded areas, buffer areas and landscaping
shall be shown. The landscaping plan, including seeded and/or sodded areas,
grading, retaining walls, fencing, signs, recreation areas, shrubbery, trees
and buffer areas shall be in accordance with applicable requirements of this
chapter. These plans shall show the location, species and caliper of plant
material for all planted or landscaped areas. Landscaping plans shall
incorporate the elements set forth in §
175-136E.
[Amended 7-28-1997 by Ord. No. 10-1997]
      (4)   Utilities.
         (a)   The proposed location of all drainage (including calculations),
sewage and water facilities with proposed grades, sizes, capacities and types
of materials to be used, including any drainage easements acquired or required
across adjoining properties. The method of sewage and waste disposal and waste
incineration, if any, shall be shown; percolation tests and test borings from
sufficient locations on the site to allow a determination of adequacy shall be
included where septic tanks and leaching fields are permitted and are proposed.
Such plans shall be reviewed by the Board of Health and/or the Board Engineer
and/or other appropriate authority, as applicable, with recommendations to the
Planning Board.
         (b)   Proposed lighting facilities shall be included, showing the
direction and reflection of the lighting. All public services shall be
connected to an approved public utilities system where one exists.
         (c)   The applicant shall arrange with the servicing utility for the
underground installation of the utilities' distribution supply lines and
service connections, in accordance with the provisions of the applicable
standard terms and conditions incorporated as part of its tariff as the same
are then on file with the State of New Jersey Board of Public Utility
Commissioners, and the developer shall provide the town with four copies of a
final plan showing the installed location of the utilities.
         (d)   The applicant shall submit to the Board, prior to the granting
of final approval, a written instrument from each serving utility, which shall
evidence full compliance or intended full compliance with the provisions of
this subsection; provided, however, that lots which abut existing streets where
overhead electric or telephone distribution supply lines and service
connections have heretofore been installed may be supplied with electric and
telephone service from these overhead lines, but any new service connections
from the utility's overhead lines shall be installed underground. In cases
where total electrical and telephone load and service cannot be determined in
advance, such as industrial parks, shopping centers, etc., perimeter utility
poles may be used, but service to buildings from poles shall be underground.
      (5)   A written description of the proposed operations of the buildings,
including the number of employees or members of nonresidential buildings; the
proposed number of shifts to be worked and the maximum number of employees on
each shift; expected truck and tractor-trailer traffic, emission of noise,
glare and air and water pollution; safety hazards; and anticipated expansion
plans incorporated in the building design. Where the applicant cannot furnish
the information required herein because of nondetermination of use, site plan
approval may be conditionally granted subject to further review and approval of
the applicant's final plans. No certificate of occupancy shall be issued until
all such plans are approved.
      (6)   Where the applicant can clearly demonstrate that, because of
peculiar or special conditions pertaining to his land or the proposed use, the
literal enforcement of one or more of these provisions is impracticable or will
exact undue hardship, the Planning Board may grant such relief for the goals
intended and the rules and standards established herein if it determines that
literal enforcement will create an inequitable situation.
ARTICLE X. Guaranties; Inspections; Acceptance of Improvements
§ 175-72. Guaranties for on-tract improvements.
   A.   Before recording final subdivision plats or as a condition of final
site plan approval or as a condition to the issuance of a zoning permit
pursuant to N.J.S.A. 40:55D-65d, the approving board shall require and accept
in accordance with the standards adopted by this chapter for the purpose of
assuring the installation and maintenance of on-tract improvements:
      (1)   The furnishing of a performance guaranty in favor of the Town of
Hammonton in an amount not to exceed 120% of the cost of installation of
improvements it may deem necessary or appropriate, including streets, grading,
pavement, gutters, curbs, sidewalks, street lighting, shade trees, surveyor's
monuments as shown on the final map and required by the Map Filing Law
(N.J.S.A. 46:23-9.9 et seq.), water mains, culverts, storm sewers, sanitary
sewers or other means of sewage disposal, drainage structures, erosion control
and sedimentation control devices, public improvements of open space and, in
the case of site plans only, other on-site improvements and landscaping.
      (2)   Provisions for a maintenance guaranty to be posted with the Town
Council for a period not to exceed two years after final acceptance of the
improvement, in an amount not to exceed 15% of the cost of the improvement. In
the event that other governmental agencies or public utilities automatically
will own the utilities to be installed and/or the improvements are covered by a
performance or maintenance guaranty to another governmental agency, no
performance or maintenance guaranty as the case may be, shall be required by
the Town Council for such utilities or improvements.
   B.   The time allowed for installation of the improvements for which the
performance guaranty has been provided may be extended by the Town Council by
resolution. As a condition or as part of any such extension, the amount of any
performance guaranty shall be increased or reduced, as the case may be, to an
amount not to exceed 120% of the cost of the installation as determined as of
the time of the passage of the resolution.
   C.   If the required improvements are not completed or corrected in
accordance with the performance guaranty, the obligor and surety, if any, shall
be liable thereon to the town for the reasonable cost of the improvements not
completed or corrected, and the town may either prior to or after the receipt
of the proceeds thereof complete such improvements.
§ 175-73. Guaranties for off-tract improvements.
   A.   Performance guaranties. The applicant shall be required to provide, as
a condition for final approval of his subdivision application, a performance
guaranty running to the town.
      (1)   If the improvement is to be constructed by the applicant under §
175-119C or under §
175-119D(2), a performance bond with surety in an amount equal to the estimated
cost of the improvements, or as to any part of said improvement that is to be
acquired or installed by the town under said §
175-119C, a cash deposit equal to the estimated cost of such acquisition or
installation by the town.
      (2)   If the improvement is to be constructed by the town as a general
improvement under §
175-119D(2)(a)[1], a cash deposit equal to the amount of the excess of the
estimated cost of the improvement over the estimated total amount by which all
properties, including the subdivision property, will be specially benefited
thereby.
      (3)   If the improvement is to be constructed by the municipality as a
local improvement under §
175-119D(2)(a)[2], a cash deposit equal to the amount referred to in Subsection
A(2), immediately above, plus the estimated amount by which the subdivision
property will be specially benefited by the improvement.
   B.   Refund of deposit where improvements are not authorized within five
years. In any case in which a subdivider shall deposit money with the town for
the completion of an off-site improvement that is to be constructed pursuant to
this chapter by the town, the applicant shall be entitled to a full refund of
such deposit if the Town Council shall not have enacted an ordinance
authorizing the improvements within five years after the date that all other
subdivision improvements are completed.
   C.   Deposit of funds. All moneys paid by an applicant pursuant to this
chapter for off-tract improvements shall be paid over to the Town Treasurer,
who shall provide a suitable depository therefor. Such funds shall be used only
for the improvements for which they are deposited or improvements serving the
same purpose.
   D.   Redetermination of assessment upon completion of improvement. Upon
completion of off-tract improvements required pursuant to this chapter, the
applicant's liability hereunder shall be recalculated in accordance with the
actual, as compared with the estimated, cost of the improvements. To the extent
that such recalculation shall increase the amount of any cash deposit made by
the applicant hereunder, the applicant shall forthwith pay the amount of such
increase to the town. To the extent that it shall decrease the amount thereof,
the town shall forthwith refund the amount of such decrease to the applicant.
In cases where improvements are specially assessed against all benefited
properties, recalculation shall be made by the Town Assessor in the course of
the special assessment proceedings. In other cases, it shall be made by the
town.
§ 175-74. Certification or guaranty required; estimate of guaranty.
   No final plat shall be approved by the Planning Board until the satisfactory
completion and performance of all such required improvements have been
certified to the Planning Board by the Board Engineer, unless the subdivision
owner shall have filed with the municipality a performance guaranty sufficient
in amount to cover the cost of all such improvements in uncompleted portions
thereof as estimated by the Board Engineer, and assuring the installation of
such uncompleted improvements on or before an agreed upon date.
   A.   A performance guaranty estimate shall be prepared by the Board
Engineer, setting forth all requirements for improvements as fixed by the
Planning Board and their estimated cost. The Town Council shall pass a
resolution either approving or adjusting this performance guaranty.
   B.   The approved performance guaranty estimate shall fix the requirements
of maintenance of the utilities and improvements to be installed and completed
by the subdivider. A surety company or cash bond meeting the requirements
hereinabove set forth may be furnished to secure the maintenance guaranty, or
the performance bond may be styled or amended to provide such security in
reduced amount in keeping with the requirements.
§ 175-75. Approval by Town Attorney.
   A.   The applicant shall present two copies of the performance guaranty in
an amount equal to the amount of the approved performance guaranty estimate for
approval as to form and execution by the Town Attorney.
   B.   The Town Attorney shall notify the Secretary of the Planning Board
prior to the Planning Board meeting that the performance guaranty is properly
executed and can be added to the agenda.
§ 175-76. Bonding and cash requirements.
   A.   The performance guaranty shall be the approved performance guaranty
estimate and as surety a performance bond in which the applicant shall be
principal, the bond to be provided by an acceptable surety company licensed to
do business in the State of New Jersey, an irrevocable letter of credit drawn
on a banking institution located or licensed to do business in the State of New
Jersey or such other form of security as may be approved by the Town Attorney,
or cash, or a certified check shall be deposited with the Town of Hammonton by
payment to the Town Treasurer. The performance guaranty in favor of the town
shall be in an amount not to exceed 120% of the cost of the installation and
improvements. The Town Treasurer shall issue its receipt for such cash deposits
and shall cause the same to be deposited in a bank named by the town for this
purpose to be retained as security for completion of all requirements and to be
returned to the subdivider on completion of all required work and expiration of
the period of maintenance guaranty or, in the event of default on the part of
the subdivider, to be used by the Town of Hammonton to pay the cost and expense
of obtaining completion of all requirements. Every bond, whether cash or
surety, shall contain a clause to the effect that the obligation shall remain
in full force and effect until such time as certification is received from the
Board Engineer that the principal has met and complied with all specifications
and requirements for which said cash or surety bond has been posted.
   B.   Ten percent of the amount of the approved performance guaranty
estimates shall be deposited with the town by the applicant in cash or
irrevocable letter of credit or other such security as approved by the Town
Attorney, that can be readily converted into cash. The remaining 90% may be in
cash, surety bond or other securities or guaranties approved by the Town
Attorney. In the event of default, the ten-percent fund herein mentioned shall
be first applied to the completion of the requirements and the cash or the
surety bond shall thereafter be resorted to, if necessary, for the completion
of the requirements. The cash or surety bond may recite the foregoing
provisions. The Board Engineer's determination that the principal has defaulted
in his obligation shall be binding and conclusive upon the principal.
§ 175-77. Inspections and tests.
   A.   All improvements and utility installations shall be inspected during
the time of their installation under the supervision of the Board Engineer to
ensure satisfactory completion. The cost of said inspection shall be the
responsibility of the applicant, and he shall deposit with the Town Treasurer
for placement in a special trust fund account a sum equal to 5% of the amount
of the performance guaranty estimate of the cost of public improvements to be
built in the subdivision to be applied to payment of inspection costs. If
inspection costs exceed such fund, the subdivider shall deposit with the Town
Treasurer additional sums upon notice from the Board Engineer. The inspection
fee shall in no case be less than $100. The Town Treasurer shall return any
balance of the inspection deposit to the subdivider upon expiration of the
maintenance bond, together with the paid invoices for all expenses charged.
   B.   In no case shall any paving work be done without permission from the
Board Engineer's office. At least two days' notice shall be given to the Board
Engineer's office prior to any such construction so that he or a qualified
representative may be present at the time the work is to be done.
   C.   The Board Engineer's office shall be notified after each of the
following phases of the work has been completed so that he or a qualified
representative may inspect the work:
      (1)   Road subgrade.
      (2)   Curb and gutter forms.
      (3)   Curbs and gutters.
      (4)   Road paving.
      (5)   Sidewalk forms.
      (6)   Sidewalks.
      (7)   Drainage pipes and other drainage structures before backfilling.
      (8)   Street name signs.
      (9)   Sanitary sewers and/or septic tanks.
      (10)   Monuments.
   D.   A final inspection of all improvements and utilities will be done by
the Board Engineer to determine whether the work is satisfactory and in
agreement with the approved final plat drawings and the town specifications.
The general condition of the site shall also be considered. Upon a satisfactory
final inspection report, action will be taken to release or declare in default
the performance guaranty covering such improvements and utilities.
   E.   Inspection by the town of the installation of improvements and
utilities by the applicant shall not operate to subject the town to liability
for claims, suits or liability of any kind that may at any time arise because
of defects or negligence during construction or at any time thereafter; it is
recognized that the responsibility to maintain safe conditions at all times
during construction and to provide proper utilities and improvements is upon
the applicant and his contractors, if any.
§ 175-78. Reduction of guaranty.
   A.   Upon substantial completion of all required appurtenant utility
improvements and the connection of same to the public system, the obligor may
notify the Town Council, in writing, by certified mail addressed in care of the
Town Clerk, of the completion or substantial completion of improvements and
shall send a copy thereof to the Board Engineer. Thereupon, the Board Engineer
shall inspect all improvements of which such notice has been given and shall
file a detailed report, in writing, with the Town Council, indicating either
approval, partial approval or rejection of such improvements with a statement
of reasons for any rejection. The cost of the improvements as approved or
rejected shall be set forth.
   B.   The Town Council shall either approve, partially approve or reject the
improvements on the basis of the report of the Board Engineer, and shall notify
the obligor in writing, by certified mail, of the contents of said report and
the action of said Town Council with relation thereto, not later than 65 days
after receipt of the notice from the obligor of the completion of the
improvements. Where partial approval is granted, the obligor shall be released
from all liability pursuant to the performance guaranty, except for that
portion adequately sufficient to secure provision of the improvements not yet
approved, provided that 30% of the amount of the performance guaranty posted
may be retained to ensure completion of all improvements. Failure of the Town
Council to send or provide such notification to the obligor within 65 days
shall be deemed to constitute approval of the improvements, and the obligor and
surety, if any, shall be released from all liability pursuant to such
performance guaranty for such improvements.
   C.   If any portion of the required improvements is rejected, the Town
Council may require the obligor to complete such improvements and, upon
completion, the same procedure of notification as set forth in this section
shall be followed.
   D.   Nothing herein, however, shall be construed to limit the right of the
obligor to contest by legal proceedings any determination of the Town Council
or the Board Engineer.
   E.   The obligor shall reimburse the town for all reasonable inspection fees
paid to the Board Engineer for the foregoing inspection of improvements,
provided that the town may require of the developer a deposit for all or a
portion of the reasonably anticipated fees to be paid to the Board Engineer for
such inspection.
   F.   In the event that final approval is by stages or sections of
development pursuant to N.J.S.A. 40:55D-38, the provisions of this section
shall be applied by stage or section.
§ 175-79. Conditions for acceptance of improvements; maintenance guaranty.
   The approval of any plat under this chapter by the Planning Board or Town
Council, or both, shall in no way be construed as acceptance of any street or
drainage system or any other improvement required by this chapter, nor shall
such plat approval obligate the town in any way to maintain or exercise
jurisdiction over such street or drainage system or other improvement. No
improvement shall be accepted by the Town Council unless and until all of the
following conditions have been met:
   A.   The Board Engineer shall have certified in writing that the
improvements are complete and that they comply with the requirements of this
chapter.
   B.   The final plat shall have been approved by the Planning Board.
   C.   Maintenance guaranty.
      (1)   After final acceptance of all improvements, the subdivider shall
have filed with the Town Council a maintenance guaranty in an amount equal to
not more than 15% of the original estimate of the cost of installing the
improvements and shall run for a period not exceeding two years. The procedures
and requirements governing such maintenance guaranty shall be identical with
the procedures and requirements for a performance guaranty set forth in this
article. The requirements for a maintenance guaranty may be waived by the Town
Council only if the Board Engineer has certified that the improvements have
been in continuous use for not less than two years from the date the Town
Engineer certified completion of such improvements and that during this period
the subdivider has maintained the improvements in a satisfactory manner.
      (2)   In the event that any other town or governmental agencies or public
utilities automatically will own the utilities to be installed, or the
improvements are covered by a performance or maintenance guaranty to another
town or governmental agency, no performance or maintenance guaranty, as the
case may be, shall be required by the town for such utilities or improvements.
§ 175-80. Certificate of occupancy.
   Occupancy permits will be issued only when the installation of any curbs,
all utilities, all functioning water supply and sewage treatment facilities,
all necessary storm drainage to ensure proper drainage of the lot and
surrounding land, rough grading of lots, base course for the driveway and base
course for the streets are installed to serve the lot and structure for which
the permit is requested. Streets, if installed prior to final approval, shall
not be paved until all heavy construction is completed; shade trees shall not
be planted until all grading and earthmoving is completed; and seeding of grass
areas shall be the last operation. The issuance of a certificate of occupancy
will follow the procedures outlined in this chapter and the town Uniform
Construction Code Ordinance. A separate certificate of occupancy shall also be
required when any change occurs in the use or occupancy of an existing
structure.
ARTICLE XI. Effect of Approvals
§ 175-81. Preliminary approval of major subdivisions and major site plans.
   Preliminary approval of a major subdivision or of a site plan shall, except
as provided in Subsection D of this section, confer upon the applicant the
following rights for a three-year period from the date of the preliminary
approval:
   A.   That the general terms and conditions on which preliminary approval was
granted shall not be changed, including but not limited to use requirements;
layout and design standards for streets, curbs and sidewalks; lot size; yard
dimensions and off-tract improvements; and, in the case of a site plan, any
requirements peculiar to site plan approval pursuant to this chapter; except
that nothing herein shall be construed to prevent the town from modifying by
ordinance such general terms and conditions of preliminary approval as relate
to public health and safety.
   B.   That the applicant may submit for final approval on or before the
expiration date of preliminary approval the whole or a section or sections of
the preliminary subdivision plat or site plan, as the case may be.
   C.   That the applicant may apply for and the Planning Board may grant
extensions on such preliminary approval for additional periods of at least one
year but not to exceed a total extension of two years, provided that if the
design standards have been revised by ordinance, such revised standards may
govern at the discretion of the Planning Board.
   D.   In the case of a subdivision of or site plan for an area of 50 acres or
more, the Planning Board may grant the rights referred to in Subsections A, B
and C above for such period of time, longer than three years, as shall be
determined by the Planning Board to be reasonable, taking into consideration
the number of dwelling units and nonresidential floor areas permissible under
preliminary approval; economic conditions; and the comprehensiveness of the
development. The applicant may apply for thereafter and the Planning Board may
thereafter grant an extension to preliminary approval for such additional
period of time as shall be determined by the Planning Board to be reasonable
taking into consideration the number of dwelling units and nonresidential floor
areas permissible under preliminary approval; the potential number of dwelling
units and nonresidential floor area of the section or sections awaiting final
approval; economic conditions; and the comprehensiveness of the development;
provided that if the design standards have been revised, such revised standards
may govern.
§ 175-82. Final approval of major subdivisions and major site plans.
   A.   The zoning requirements granted on preliminary approval and all other
rights conferred upon the developer pursuant to §
175-81, whether conditionally or otherwise, shall not be changed for a period
of two years after the date of final approval, provided that in the case of a
major subdivision, the rights conferred by this section shall expire if the
plat has not been duly recorded within the time period provided in §
175-20D of this chapter. If the developer has followed the standards prescribed
for final approval and, in the case of a subdivision, has duly recorded the
plat as required in §
175-20D of this chapter, the Planning Board may extend such period of
protection for extensions of one year but not to exceed three extensions.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this act, the granting of final
approval terminates the time period of preliminary approval pursuant to §
175-81 of this chapter for the section granted final approval.
   B.   In the case of a subdivision or site plan for a planned unit
development or planned unit residential development of 50 acres or more or
conventional subdivision or site plan for 150 acres or more, the Planning Board
may grant the rights referred to in Subsection A of this section for such
period of time, longer than two years, as shall be determined by the Planning
Board to be reasonable, taking into consideration the number of dwelling units
and nonresidential floor areas permissible under final approval; economic
conditions; and the comprehensiveness of the development. The developer may
apply for thereafter and the Planning Board may thereafter grant an extension
of final approval for such additional period of time as shall be determined by
the Planning Board to be reasonable, taking into consideration the number of
dwelling units and nonresidential floor areas permissible under final approval;
the number of dwelling units and nonresidential floor areas remaining to be
developed; economic conditions; and the comprehensiveness of the development.
[Amended 3-25-2002 by Ord. No. 12-2002]
§ 175-83. Approval of minor subdivisions.
   The zoning requirements and general terms and conditions, whether
conditional or otherwise, upon which minor subdivision approval was granted,
shall not be changed for a period of two years after the date of minor
subdivision approval, provided that the approved minor subdivision shall have
been duly recorded as provided in this section.
§ 175-84. Approval of minor site plan.
   The zoning requirements and general terms and conditions, whether
conditional or otherwise, upon which minor site plan approval was granted,
shall not be changed for a period of two years after the date of minor site
plan approval.
§ 175-85. Suspension of running period of approval.
   In the event that during the period of approval heretofore or hereafter
granted to an application for development the developer is barred or prevented,
directly or indirectly, from proceeding with the development otherwise
permitted under such approval by a legal action instituted by a state agency,
political subdivision or other party to protect the public health and welfare
or by a directive or order issued by any state agency, political subdivision or
court of competent jurisdiction to protect the public health or welfare and the
developer is otherwise ready, willing and able to proceed with said
development, the running of the period of approval under N.J.S.A. 40:55D-1 et
seq., or under any act repealed by said act, as the case may be, shall be
suspended for the period of time said legal action is pending or such directive
or order is in effect.
ARTICLE XII Design, Performance and Evaluation Standards
§ 175-86. General standards.
   A.   General. The design of any subdivision shall conform to the principles
of land subdivision as set forth in this chapter and the Master Plan of the
Town of Hammonton and will be such as will encourage good development patterns
within the Town of Hammonton and enhance the public welfare. Proposed
development shall also conform to the standards and management programs of the
New Jersey Pinelands Comprehensive Management Plan as contained within this
chapter. In accordance with good design practices, extreme deviations from
rectangular lot shapes and straight lot lines shall not be allowed unless made
necessary by special topographical conditions or other special conditions
acceptable to the approving authority. All improvements shall be installed and
connected with existing facilities or installed in required locations to enable
future connections with approved systems or contemplated systems and shall be
adequate to handle all present and probable future development.
   B.   Whenever a development abuts or crosses a municipal boundary, access to
those lots within the town shall be from within the town as the general rule.
Wherever access to a development is required across land in an adjoining
community as the exception, the approving authority may require documentation
that such access is legally established and that the access road is adequately
improved.
   C.   No street shall have a name which will duplicate or so nearly duplicate
as to be confused with the names of existing streets or places within the Town
of Hammonton.
§ 175-87. Accessory buildings.
   A.   Accessory buildings as part of principal buildings. Any accessory
building attached to a principal building shall be considered part of the
principal building, and the total structure shall adhere to the yard
requirements for the principal building, regardless of the technique of
connecting the principal and accessory buildings. Accessory buildings not
attached to principal buildings, and within Downtown Districts, are accessory
structure building types as per §
175-160B(20).
[Amended 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   B.   Distance between adjacent buildings. The minimum distance between an
accessory building and any other building(s) on the same lot shall be as
prescribed in Article XIII, except that no poultry or livestock shelter shall
be erected nearer than 50 feet to any dwelling on the same lot.
   C.   Height of accessory buildings. The height of accessory buildings that
do not contain dwelling units shall be limited to 20 feet to the roof peak. The
height of detached accessory buildings in Downtown Districts shall follow the
height restrictions for accessory building types as per §
175-160B.(20).
[Amended 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011; 12-18-2023 by Ord. No. 025-2023]
   D.   Location. An accessory building may be erected in side and rear yard
areas only, and the required side and rear yards shall be ½ that required for
primary structures, except that in no case shall side or rear yards for
accessory buildings be less than six feet, except that if erected on a corner
lot, the accessory building shall be set back from the side street to comply
with the setback line applying to the principal building for that side street.
Additionally, except as otherwise specified for the Rural Residential District
in §
175-150, no poultry or livestock shelter shall be erected nearer than 50 feet
to any lot line. Seasonal stands are exempt from front and yard provisions,
provided that such seasonal stands occur as accessory uses to a farm and are
constructed as temporary six-foot moveable structures. Accessory buildings in
Downtown Districts shall follow additional location specifications as per §
175-160B.(20). If an accessory structure is erected in the side yard, it must
be setback a minimum of five feet behind the front facade of the principal
building.
[Amended 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011; 7-26-2021 by Ord. No. 008-2021]
   E.   Private garages. No business, service or industry shall be conducted on
the ground floor within a private garage outside of Downtown Districts, other
than the storage of personal vehicles.
[Amended 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   F.   Square footage. In no case shall the total cumulative area of all
accessory structures exceed the following square footages:
      (1)   FA, AP, and AP/CLI Zoning Districts - 1,500 square feet;
      (2)   RR Zoning District - 1,000 square feet;
      (3)   R3 Zoning District - 500 square feet; and
      (4)   R1 and R2 Zoning Districts - 400 square feet.
      Notwithstanding the above, agricultural uses on qualified farms are not
subject to the size restriction set forth in this §
175-87(F), provided the accessory structure is to be utilized for the farming/
agricultural operation. For purposes of this § 175-87(F), the term "qualified
farms" shall mean those farms that are a minimum size of five acres and meet
the farmland assessment criteria.
 [Added 7-26-2021 by Ord. No. 008-2021]
§ 175-88. Agricultural management.
   A.   It is the express finding and declaration of the Town Council that
agricultural activities serve the interest of the citizens of the town by
ensuring numerous social, economic and environmental benefits, and it is,
therefore, the express intention of this chapter to establish as the policy of
this town the protection of agricultural operations from nuisance action where
recognized methods and techniques of agricultural production are applied.
   B.   The owner of land used for agricultural or horticultural purposes or
use who conducts agricultural activities in conformance with the agricultural
management practices set forth in this section and all relevant federal or
state statutes or rules and regulations adopted pursuant thereto and which does
not pose a direct threat to public health and safety may:
      (1)   Produce agricultural and horticultural crops, trees and forest
products, livestock and poultry and other commodities as described in the
standard industrial classification for agricultural, forestry, fishing and
trapping.
      (2)   Package the agricultural output.
      (3)   Provide for the wholesale and retail marketing of the agricultural
output and related products, including the construction of building and parking
areas in conformance with the town's standards.
      (4)   Replenish soil nutrients in accord with acceptable management
practices.
      (5)   Control pests, predators and diseases of plants and animals.
      (6)   Clear woodlands using open burning and other techniques, install
and maintain vegetative and terrain alterations and other physical facilities
for water and soil conservation and surface water control in wetland areas.
      (7)   Conduct on-site disposal of organic agricultural waste.
   C.   The following standards shall apply to all agricultural uses in the
town:
      (1)   All agricultural activities and fish and wildlife management
activities, including the preparation of land and the planting, nurturing and
harvesting of crops, shall be carried out in accordance with recommended
management practices established for the particular agricultural activity by
the New Jersey Department of Agriculture, the Soil Conservation Service and the
New Jersey Agricultural Experimental Station at Rutgers University.
      (2)   In agricultural production districts and special agricultural
production districts of Hammonton, a resource conservation plan shall be
prepared by the operator of every agricultural use or the appropriate Soil
Conservation District located in an area which has been designated by any
agency of federal, state or local government as having substandard surface or
groundwater. If prepared by the operator, such plan shall be submitted to the
Soil Conservation District for review. The resource conservation plan shall be
reviewed, updated and revised as necessary and shall provide for the use of
recommended management practices as found in the following publications:
[Amended 3-15-2001 by Ord. No. 14-2001]
         (a)   Erosion and runoff: Soil Conservation Service Technical Guide.
         (b)   Animal waste: Soil Conservation Service Animal Waste Management
Field Manual.
         (c)   Fertilizers and pesticides: Rutgers University, Cook College,
Cooperative Extension Service Annual Recommendations.
      (3)   At such time as the State Agriculture Development Committee is
established pursuant to Section 4 of the Right to Farm Act (P.L. 1983, c. 31),
N.J.S.A. 4:1C-1 et seq., and any amendments or revisions thereto, and at such
time as said Committee develops and recommends the program of Agricultural
Management Practices pursuant to Section 5 of the aforesaid Right to Farm Act,
said Agricultural Management Practices, as developed and recommended by said
Committee, shall be the standards to be applied to all agricultural uses in the
town, insofar as applicable, to the extent that the standards set forth in
Subsections C(1) and (2) above are superseded thereby and to the extent that
these practices are consistent with the Pinelands Protection Act and CMP.
   D.   The town, in recognition that agricultural activities, when reasonable
and necessary, produce a benefit to the neighborhood, the community and society
in general by the preservation of open space, the beauty of the countryside and
clean air and by the preservation and continuance of agricultural operations in
the Town of Hammonton, New Jersey, as a source of agricultural products and
values for this and future generations, creates the following presumptions:
      (1)   In all relevant actions filed subsequent to the effective date of
this chapter, there shall exist a rebuttable presumption that no agricultural
operation, activity or structure, which conforms to the standards set forth in
Subsection C of this section and all relevant federal or state statutes or
rules or regulations adopted pursuant thereto and which does not pose a direct
threat to public health and safety shall constitute a public or private
nuisance, nor shall any such operation, activity or structure be deemed to
otherwise invade or interfere with the use and enjoyment of any other land or
property.
      (2)   In all relevant actions filed subsequent to the effective date of
this chapter, there shall exist an irrebuttable presumption that no
agricultural operation, activity or structure which is conducted or located
within a municipally approved program and which conforms to the agricultural
standards set forth in Subsection C of this section and all relevant federal or
state statutes or rules and regulations adopted pursuant thereto and which does
not pose a direct threat to public health and safety shall constitute a public
or private nuisance, nor shall any such operation, activity or structure be
deemed to otherwise invade or interfere with the use and enjoyment of any other
land or property.
   E.   As a statement of policy, it is the intent of this chapter to achieve
the following objectives with respect to the continuance of agricultural
activities in the town:
      (1)   Farmland within the town's Agricultural Production District and
Special Agricultural Production District shall be maintained and protected for
open space or farming purposes to the maximum extent practicable.
[Amended 3-15-2001 by Ord. No. 14-2001]
      (2)   Continued, renewed or new farming is encouraged throughout the town
and particularly within agricultural production areas.
      (3)   Conflicts between agriculture and other uses should be minimized.
In particular, agriculture uses within the town's Agricultural Production
District and Special Agricultural Production District shall be exempt from all
municipal ordinances and regulations which inhibit efficient crop production,
including but not limited to ordinances and regulations imposing time limits on
operations, dust limits and odor restrictions, except those ordinances and
regulations which are strictly necessary for the maintenance of public health.
[Amended 3-15-2001 by Ord. No. 14-2001]
§ 175-89. Air quality. [Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989]
   A.   All development shall adhere to the relevant air quality standards of
N.J.A.C. 7:27 et seq. Adherence to the standards of this section shall be
determined by means of an air quality simulation model approved by the New
Jersey Department of Environmental Protection pursuant to N.J.A.C. 7:27-18.3.
[Amended 7-28-1997 by Ord. No. 10-1997]
   B.   Applications for the following developments shall ensure that all state
ambient air quality standards in N.J.A.C. 7:27 et seq. for carbon monoxide
shall not be exceeded at places of maximum concentration and at sensitive
receptors:
      (1)   Residential development of 50 or more units and any other
development involving more than 100 parking spaces located in an RR, R-1, R-2,
R-3, H-B, MI, REC, or any Downtown or Gateway District.  [Amended 12-14-1998 by
Ord. No. 30-1998; 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
      (2)   Residential development of 100 or more units and any other
development involving more than 300 parking spaces located in a PA, FA, AP or
AP/CLI District.
§ 175-90. Blocks.
   A.   Block length and width or acreage within bounding roads shall be such
as to accommodate the size of lot required in the area by the Zoning Ordinance
and to provide for convenient access, circulation control and safety of street
traffic, but in no case shall be less than 400 feet nor more than 1,200 feet in
length at the center lines.
   B.   Pedestrian crosswalks may be required in locations deemed necessary by
the Planning Board in order to provide access to schools, recreation areas,
shopping facilities, transportation facilities, churches and other community
facilities. Such walkways shall be 10 feet wide and shall provide a visual
connection from street to street.
   C.   For commercial, group housing or industrial use, block size shall be
sufficient to meet all area and yard requirements for such use.
§ 175-91. Buffer areas; motor vehicle screening and storage. [Amended 10-12-
1987 by Ord. No. 13-1987]
   A.   Buffer areas are required along lot and street lines of all
nonresidential lots where said property lines or the center line of adjacent
streets abut residential uses or residential zoning district lines and other
locations as specified in Article XIII. Each permitted use shall provide and
maintain attractively landscaped grounds and suitable screening in order to
safeguard the character of adjacent districts. The width of the buffer area for
each particular zoning district shall be as prescribed in Article XIII and may
be coexistent with the rear yard only if approved by the Planning Board. Buffer
areas shall be measured horizontally and be either perpendicular to straight
lot and street lines or radial to curved lot and street lines. Buffer areas
shall be maintained and kept clear of all debris, rubbish, weeds and tall
grass. No above-surface structure or activity, stormwater drainage facility,
the storage of materials or parking of vehicles shall be permitted in the
buffer area, and all buffer areas shall be planted and maintained with grass or
ground cover, together with a dense screen of trees, shrubs or other plant
materials, meeting the following requirements:
      (1)   Tree species, when used in screen planting, shall be at least six
feet in height when planted and shall be of such density that all the glare of
automobile headlights emitted from the premises is obscured through the full
course of the year. The plant material shall be of a species native to the
area, as listed in N.J.A.C. 7:50-6.23, and shall be of nursery stock and shall
be free of insects and diseases. (See §
175-136.)
      (2)   Landscaped berms planted with native tree and shrub species which,
when mature, will present a dense visual screen are recommended for designated
buffer areas.
      (3)   Buffer areas shall be permanently maintained, and plant material
which does not live shall be replaced within one year or one growing season.
      (4)   The screen planting shall be so placed that at maturity the plant
material will be no closer than three feet from any street or property line.
      (5)   The buffer area shall not be broken unless specifically approved by
the Planning Board.
   B.   Motor vehicle screening and storage. No more than 10 automobiles,
trucks or other motor vehicles, whether or not they are in operating condition,
shall be stored on any lot unless such motor vehicles are adequately screened
from adjacent residential uses and scenic corridors. All vehicles not in
operating condition shall be stored only if the gasoline tanks of such vehicles
are drained. This subsection shall not apply to vehicles which are in operating
condition or which are maintained for agricultural purposes.
[Added 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989]
§ 175-92. Building design.
   A.   Within any residential district, no building with a permitted
professional office or other home occupation shall be constructed or altered so
as to be inharmonious with the residential character of the adjacent
residential areas. See §
175-160 for additional requirements in DT-1, DT-2, DT-3, DT-4, GW-1, GW-2, and
GW-3.
[Amended 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   B.   The Town Council hereby finds that uniformity in the exterior design
and appearance of dwellings erected in the same residential neighborhoods tends
to adversely affect the desirability of the immediate and neighboring areas for
residential purposes and impairs existing residential property in such areas;
tends to impair the value of both improved and unimproved real property in such
areas; and tends to deprive the municipality of tax revenue and destroys a
proper balance between the taxable value of real property in such areas and the
cost of municipal service provided therefor. It the purpose of this section to
prevent these and other harmful effects of uniformity in design and appearance
of dwellings erected in any housing development in the same residential
neighborhood and, thus, to promote and protect the general welfare of the
community.
      (1)   Except as provided in this chapter, not more than one construction
permit shall hereafter be issued for any dwelling to be erected in a housing
development consisting of two or more houses if it is substantially alike in
exterior design and appearance with any neighboring dwelling situated on the
same or opposite sides of the street within 150 feet of a dwelling then in
existence or for which a construction permit has been issued or is pending. The
distance herein specified shall be construed to mean the distance between the
street property lines of the respective properties.
      (2)   Houses within such specified distance from each other shall be
considered uniform in exterior design and appearance if they have any one of
the following characteristics:
         (a)   The same basic dimensions and floor plans are used without
substantial differentiation of one or more exterior elevations.
         (b)   The height and design of the roofs are without substantial
change in design and appearance.
         (c)   The size and type of windows and doors in the front elevation
are without substantial differentiation.
      (3)   In addition, there shall be no fewer than two separate basic house
designs in every housing development consisting of nine to 15 houses; no fewer
than five basic house designs in every housing development consisting of 16 to
50 houses; no fewer than six basic house designs in every housing development
consisting of 51 to 77 houses; and no fewer than eight basic house designs in
every housing development consisting of 78 or more houses.
      (4)   To ensure conformity with the provisions of this chapter, no
construction permit shall hereafter be issued for more than one dwelling unit
in any housing development until the builder shall post or cause to be posted
on the map of the subdivision on file with the Construction Official the type
and model of each house for which a construction permit has been or is being
issued.
      (5)   The provisions, requirements and standards heretofore set forth
shall not be considered met where there is an attempt to make minor changes or
deviations from building plans and location surveys, which changes show an
obvious intent to circumvent the purpose of this section.
      (6)   Underground utilities. The location, size and depth of all
underground utilities shall comply with all applicable state statutes and shall
require the approval of the Planning Board and the Town Engineer.
§ 175-93. Outdoor furnishings in Downtown Districts.
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]  18
   A.   Umbrella requirements.
      (1)   Umbrellas for the purpose of shielding patrons from weather and
such elements shall be affixed to outdoor tables and weighted base in a manner
which prevents the umbrellas and/or tables and/or chairs from tipping. Head
clearance of 80 inches is required over any portion of a pedestrian right of
way or aisle way for sidewalk café or building entrances or egresses. Signage
is permitted on removable umbrellas. Signage applied to an umbrella by the
umbrella manufacturer or a retail vendor, such as the business name, an
associated corporate name, or a product name are exempt from a sign permit. The
total signage on an awning or umbrella shall not exceed 20% of the area of the
umbrella.
   B.   Material of tables, chairs, and umbrellas.
      (1)   Tables and chairs shall be of wood or metal and shall be treated
with a weather resistant finish. Picnic-style tables are prohibited.
      (2)   Umbrella fabric shall be of a material suitable for outdoor use,
and must be cloth or canvas-type. No plastic fabrics, plastic/vinyl-laminated
fabrics, or any type of rigid materials are permitted for use as umbrellas
within an outdoor seating area.
   C.   Removal of outdoor furniture during inclement weather.
      (1)   Outdoor café furniture shall be secured to ensure that they can
withstand the effects of normal wind load. In the event of heavy or gust winds,
appropriate measures must be taken to secure any object subject to such
conditions. In the event of below freezing temperatures, ice, or snow,
sidewalks must be cleared of outdoor café dining furniture.
   D.   The elements set forth in §
175-93 shall provide for a clear pedestrian way in accordance with current ADA
standards.
 
Notes
   18.   Editor's Note: Former §
18 175-93, Cluster development, as amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989, was
   repealed 3-25-2002 by Ord. No. 12-2002.
§ 175-94. Corner lots.
   A.   Corner lots for residential use shall have additional width in order to
accommodate the requirements of the Zoning Ordinance of the Town of Hammonton
for front yard setbacks on both streets.
   B.   Corner lots in Downtown Districts and Gateway Districts shall adhere to
setback specifications from side roads as shown under each building type's
specifications as c.6.D.
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
§ 175-95. Curbs.
   All curbs, where required, shall be not less than 18 inches deep and six
inches in width at the top and eight inches in width at the bottom and shall
have a compressive strength of 3,000 pounds per square inch after 28 days and
shall be Class B concrete in accordance with New Jersey State Highway
Specifications. The minimum length of block shall be 10 feet, with a preformed
bituminous expansion joint, filled ½ inch thick, installed every 20 feet.
Gutters, where required, shall be constructed of minimum concrete mixture
conforming to the above specifications, with joints and finish the same, and
shall be a minimum of two feet in width and six inches in thickness. The
engineer shall reject any concrete surface which has been defaced, marred or
improperly finished. There shall be provided within all applications curbs
designed to the satisfaction of the Town Engineer so as to permit ingress and
egress by handicapped persons in at least one location within each block of the
subdivision in question.
§ 175-96. Easements.
   A.   Public use and service areas.
      (1)   Easements along side or rear property lines or elsewhere for
utility installation and maintenance or for access to a public use area or
facility may be required. Such easements shall be at least 25 feet wide and
shall be located in consultation with the companies or municipal departments
concerned. All such easements shall be approved by the Board.
      (2)   Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainage way,
channel or street, there shall be provided a stormwater easement or drainage
right-of-way, conforming substantially to the lines of such watercourse and
such further width or construction, or both, as will be adequate for the
purpose and shall conform to comprehensive plans for these facilities in the
town, if such exists or should hereafter be adopted.
      (3)   Natural features such as trees, brooks, hilltops and views shall be
preserved whenever possible in designing any subdivision containing such
features.
   B.   Shared parking. Owners or lessees of land uses that exhibit off-setting
parking demand patterns may reduce the total amount of parking that they are
required to provide if they demonstrate at the time of site plan review that
the total amount of parking being provided for the combined uses will be
available.
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
      (1)   In calculating the total amount of parking available, applications
shall submit a shared parking analysis report using procedures originally
proposed in the report Shared Parking published by the Urban Land Institute in
cooperation with the Institute of Traffic Engineers. Revised parking
accumulation information published in the report Parking Generation - 3rd
Edition, published by the Institute of Traffic Engineers, or later edition,
shall be employed as appropriate.
      (2)   An applicant who seeks to employ a shared parking approach must:
         (a)   Demonstrate that the shared parking is either under the control
of the applicant entity or document that the applicant has entered into a
binding agreement authorizing the shared parking arrangement for a term of not
less than three years from the date of final approval of the development
application;
         (b)   Provide the shared parking on the same block as the parcel to be
developed or a contiguous block unless otherwise approved; and
         (c)   Provide clear informational signage directing vehicles to the
associated parking area(s).
      (3)   Any applicant for development or land-use change in one of the
Downtown or Gateway Districts shall submit an appropriate parking analysis
report as part of a complete development application.
         (a)   If the development requires review by the Planning Board, the
Planning Board shall analyze the report findings and establish requirements as
part of any approval the Board elects to grant.
         (b)   Developments not requiring planning board review, including
changes in use, shall be reviewed administratively by the zoning officer to
determine parking requirements.
         (c)   In cases which an applicant relies upon shared parking or
arranged off-site parking, the applicant shall be required to file a report
every two years with the zoning officer documenting that it is continuing to
satisfy its parking requirement. Failure to maintain a shared parking
arrangement in conformity with subparagraph 175-96.B.3 may constitute a
violation of the original approval.
         (d)   When an existing property is being changed to create a more
intensive use relative to parking, but will not add any building space, the
plan may be reviewed administratively provided that no other conditions
requiring site plan review apply.
§ 175-97. Energy conservation.
   The Planning Board shall, when reviewing all major development applications,
consider energy conservation techniques. Such techniques shall include, but not
be limited to, the orientation of streets and structures to gain the best solar
advantage, the use of clustering, the provision of bike paths and public
transportation amenities such as bus shelters and the incorporation of active
and passive solar power and designs.
§ 175-98. Fences and walls.
   All fences and walls hereinafter constructed shall comply with the
provisions of Chapter 94, Fences and Barriers, of the Code of the Town of
Hammonton.
§ 175-99. Environmental impact statement.
[Amended 2-27-1995 by Ord. No. 2-1995; 1-27-2020 by Ord. No. 001-2020]
   A.   Purpose. The Town of Hammonton has, as one of its governing body's
overall policies, the promotion of the environment. This policy will foster the
health, safety and welfare in the town and encourage all development to advance
with this policy as a criteria to be met.
   B.   Environmental, impact statement. An environmental impact statement
shall include the following information:
      (1)   Identification.
         (a)   The application number.
         (b)   The name of the development.
         (c)   The block and lot numbers.
         (d)   The name, address and telephone number of the applicant and, if
applicable, all shareholders or members, if a limited liability company.
         (e)   The name, address and telephone number of all property owners.
         (f)   The name, address and telephone number of all agents, lawyers,
consultants, etc.
         (g)   The type of development.
         (h)   A list of all licenses, permits and other approvals required by
law.
         (i)   An indication of the area of the site, the area to be developed
and the area to be covered by impervious surfaces and structures.
         (j)   The method and schedule of construction.
         (k)   The location of the proposed project, including a location map.
      (2)   Existing conditions.
         (a)   Describe the present condition of the site in terms of the
following (include maps showing all trees greater than 20 inches in diameter
and densely vegetated areas, soils on the site, soil sampling sites, and
wetlands; include photographs if appropriate or if requested):
            [1]   Vegetation.
               [a]   Trees greater than 20 inches in diameter must be
individually located.
               [b]   A verbal description summarizing the general locations of
trees greater than 10 inches in diameter shall be given.
               [c]   List dominant vegetation on the site and explain how the
list was compiled.
               [d]   Are there any threatened or endangered species of
vegetation present on the site? If so, please identify them and their
locations.
            [2]   Soils.
               [a]   In the description, include suitability and limitations.
               [b]   Provide soil-boring logs from both topographically low and
topographically high areas as well as from potential sites for retention/
detention basins.
               [c]   Indicate the date of soil boring.
               [d]   Determine depth to seasonal high-water table and criteria
used to determine that depth.
               [e]   If an area has been identified as formerly an agricultural
site, soil sampling must be completed or in the alternative, a Phase I Report
provided. Soil sampling must follow the established DEP protocol for assessing
pesticide residue from the historic use of pesticides.
            [3]   Wetlands, including streams, ponds, lakes, vernal ponds,
drainage basins and other bodies of water.
            [4]   Water quality.
               [a]   Using any available data, describe the quality of
groundwater and any surface water, including lakes, streams, ponds or vernal
ponds.
               [b]   Provide groundwater studies pertaining to the site.
               [c]   Establish the relationship of the site to area watersheds.
            [5]   Water supply.
               [a]   Is municipal water available at the site?
               [b]   What is the proposed source of the water supply?
               [c]   What are the project's daily and peak demands for water?
               [d]   List any on-site wells, including capacity and depth, if
possible.
               [e]   Provide information showing that adequate potable water is
available. Include certifications.
            [6]   Sewage.
               [a]   Is the site currently sewered by Municipal Sanitary Sewer?
               [b]   If not, can the site be serviced by the municipal sanitary
sewer system?
               [c]   If not, how will sewage be handled?
            [7]   Wildlife.
               [a]   List predominate wildlife on the site and explain how the
list was compiled.
               [b]   List aquatic organisms, if any, and explain how the list
was compiled.
               [c]   Have any threatened or endangered species of wildlife been
documented or seen on the property? If so, please identify them.
            [8]   Structures, roads and other cultural features.
            [9]   Current population density.
            [10]   Zoning and land use within a one-fourth-mile radius.
            [11]   Noise levels.
            [12]   Traffic conditions. Verbal description of traffic passing
the site, discussion of origin and route of traffic to the site and destination
and route of traffic leaving the site.
            [13]   Air quality.
         (b)   Submit an ecological inventory of the site, performed by a
qualified consultant (needed only for sites greater than 50 acres).
         (c)   Complete a cultural resource survey, if required by Pinelands or
other agencies.
         (d)   List, locate on a site map and describe any environmentally
sensitive areas, including the following:
            [1]   Freshwater marshes, streams or other wetlands.
            [2]   Flood-prone areas.
            [3]   Aquifer recharge areas.
            [4]   Woodland and wildlife.
            [5]   Agricultural land.
            [6]   Historical sites.
            [7]   Federal or state lands.
            [8]   Vernal ponds.
         (e)   List, locate on an appropriate map and describe any potential
environmental hazards, including the following:
            [1]   Any point or nonpoint pollution sources on or near the site.
            [2]   Any landfills or former landfills on or near the site.
Address their effects or potential effects on water quality.
            [3]   Any hazardous, toxic, dangerous substances currently used,
stored or deposited on the site.
      (3)   During and after development.
         (a)   Describe the project, specifying what is to be done during
construction and subsequently, during the operation of the facility.
         (b)   Describe any development proposed for flood hazard areas.
         (c)   What will be the project's effect on:
            [1]   Topography of the site. Describe grading for aesthetics,
construction and drainage.
            [2]   Vegetation. Include any inventory of trees to be lost, noting
size and type. Trees greater than 20 inches in diameter must be individually
located.
            [3]   Surface waters. Include on-site and off-site drainage plans,
proposed non-structural stormwater management installations, drainage control
devices, disposition of stormwater and slope stability.
            [4]   Groundwater quality and quantity.
            [5]   Wildlife, including patterns of animal behavior and habitat
fragmentation
            [6]   Existing structures and other man-made resources.
            [7]   Population density.
            [8]   Nearby land use.
            [9]   Aesthetics. Include building and landscape design.
            [10]   Noise levels. Include location and decibel rating for noise
generation on site during construction and during intended use.
            [11]   Traffic conditions. Include a verbal description of traffic
passing the site, discussion of origin and route of traffic to the site and
destination and route of traffic leaving the site.
            [12]   Air quality (commercial or industrial development only).
List sources and types of pollution.
            [13]   Environmental hazards. Include what hazardous materials will
be present during and after construction.
            [14]   Recreational uses.
            [15]   Waste disposal.
            [16]   Energy use.
            [17]   Municipal services. Include police, fire, roads, schools,
trash collection, etc., or a fiscal impact statement.
            [18]   Pattern of community and regional growth.
            [19]   Displacement of viable farms.
         (d)   List adverse impacts which cannot be avoided.
         (e)   Describe methods to avoid or minimize adverse environmental
impacts associated with the project.
         (f)   Discuss alternatives to the proposed project consistent with
zoning on the site, and including the alternative of no additional development
of the site.
   C.   Major subdivision or major site plan requirement.
      (1)   Every major subdivision or major site plan which is proposed for
the purpose of any kind of development, present or future, requires an
environmental impact statement.
      (2)   The environmental impact statement shall accompany the preliminary
plat in all cases.
      (3)   The applicant must submit answers or comments for each item in the
Environmental Impact Statement. All answers or statements are to be
substantiated.
      (4)   Environmental impact statements must be submitted to the
Environmental Commission two weeks prior to the scheduled Environmental
Commission meeting at which the applicant expects it to be reviewed.
      (5)   At its discretion, for minor subdivisions or minor site plans, the
Planning Board may request submission of an environmental impact statement for
Environmental Commission review if the Planning Board wishes to have additional
information for review of an application.
   D.   Waiver of certain requirements. The applicant may, by written request,
petition for a reduction in the environmental impact statement. The
Environmental Commission may agree to a modified environmental impact
statement. In such cases, the Environmental Commission shall designate the
items to be included. All of the designated items are to receive an answer or
comments. All answers or statements are to be substantiated.
   E.   Pesticide residue.
[Added 8-26-2002 by Ord. No. 34-2002]
      (1)   Soil quality.
         (a)   All properties subject to development which are not exempt shall
comply with the residential soil cleanup criteria established by the New Jersey
Department of Environmental Protection.
         (b)   The developer shall be required to produce evidence that soils
have been properly sampled and tests for pesticide residue have been conducted
following the guidelines established by the Historic Pesticide Contamination
Tack Force.
         (c)   In the event the soil samples are determined to contain
contaminates in excess of the residential soil cleanup criteria, the developer
is required to enter into a memorandum of agreement with the New Jersey
Department of Environmental Protection and submit to the Town of Hammonton, the
Planning Board and the Zoning Board a "no further action letter" issued by the
New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection prior to obtaining final
approval.
      (2)   Exemptions. Property shall be deemed exempt from the requirements
of this section if the developer can produce clear and convincing evidence that
the property subject to development was never used for agriculture purposes.
      (3)   Condition of final approval. A final approval shall not be issued
unless and until the applicant produces a memorandum of agreement with the New
Jersey Department of Environmental Protection and/or receives a "no further
action letter," which shall be filed with the Town of Hammonton.
§ 175-100. Fire management.
   A.   No development shall be carried out in vegetated areas of the town
which are classified as a moderate, high or extreme hazard as defined in
Subsection B below unless such development complies with the following
standards:
      (1)   All proposed development, or units or sections thereof, of 25
dwelling units or more will have two access ways of a width and surface
composition sufficient to accommodate and support fire-fighting equipment.
      (2)   All dead-end roads will terminate in a manner which provides safe
and efficient entry and exit for fire equipment.
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989]
      (3)   The rights-of-way of all roads will be maintained so that they
provide an effective firebreak.
      (4)   A fire-hazard fuel break is provided around structures proposed for
human use by the selective removal of thinning of trees, bushes, shrubs and
ground cover as follows:
         (a)   In moderate fire-hazard areas, a fuel break of 30 feet measured
outward from the structure in which:
            [1]   Shrubs, under story trees and bushes and ground cover are to
be selectively removed, mowed or pruned on an annual basis.
            [2]   All dead plant material is removed.
         (b)   In high fire-hazard areas, a fuel break of 75 feet measured
outward from the structure in which:
            [1]   Shrubs, under story trees and bushes and ground cover are to
be selectively removed, mowed or pruned and maintained on an annual basis.
            [2]   All dead plant material is removed.
         (c)   In extreme high-hazard areas, a fuel break of 100 feet measured
outward from the structure in which:
            [1]   Shrubs, under story trees and bushes and ground cover are to
be selectively removed, mowed or pruned and maintained on an annual basis.
            [2]   No pine tree (Pinus spp.) is closer than 25 feet to another
pine tree.
            [3]   All dead plant material is removed.
      (5)   All residential developments of 100 dwelling units or more in high
or extreme high hazard areas will have a two-hundred-foot perimeter fuel break
between all structures and the forest in which:
         (a)   Shrubs, under story trees and bushes and ground cover are
selectively removed, mowed or pruned and maintained on an annual basis.
         (b)   All dead plant material is removed.
         (c)   Roads, rights-of-way, wetlands and waste disposal sites shall be
used as fire breaks to the maximum extent practical.
         (d)   There is a specific program for maintenance.
      (6)   All structures will meet the following specifications:
         (a)   Roofs and exteriors will be constructed of fire-resistant
materials such as asphalt rag-felt roofing, tile, slate, asbestos cement
shingles, sheet iron, aluminum or brick. Fire-retardant-treated wood shingles
or shake type roofs are prohibited in high or extreme fire hazard area.
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989]
         (b)   All projections such as balconies, decks and roof gables shall
be constructed of fire-resistant materials or materials treated with fire-
retardant chemicals.
         (c)   Any openings in the roof, attic and the floor shall be screened.
         (d)   Chimneys and stovepipes which are designed to burn solid or
liquid fuels shall be equipped with screens over the outlets.
         (e)   Flat roofs are prohibited in areas where vegetation is higher
than the roof.
   B.   The following classifications of fire hazards shall be defined as:
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989; 6-12-1989 by Ord. No. 19-1989]
   Hazard   Vegetation Types
   Low   Atlantic White Cedar and Hardwood Swamps
   Moderate   Nonpine barrens forest Prescribed burned areas
   High   Pine barrens forest, including mature forms of pine, pine-oak or oak-
pine
   Extreme   Immature or dwarf forms of pine-oak or oak pine; all classes of
pine-scrub oak and pine-lowland
§ 175-101. Fire hydrants.
   The type of fire hydrant and the layout of the system shall be approved by
the Board of Water Commissioners and the Town Engineer. In residential
subdivisions, fire hydrants shall be located so that the distance between
proposed hydrants shall not exceed 1,000 feet as measured along the curbline.
In commercial and industrial subdivisions, standards of the appropriate fire
insurance rating association shall apply.
§ 175-102. Fish and wildlife.
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989]
   No development within the town shall be carried out unless it is designed to
avoid irreversible adverse impacts on habitats that are critical to the
survival of any local populations of those threatened or endangered animal
species designated by the Department of Environmental Protection pursuant to
N.J.S.A. 23:2A-1 et seq. All development or other authorized activity shall be
carried out in a manner which avoids disturbance of fish and wildlife habitats
that are essential to the continued nesting, resting, breeding and feeding of
significant populations of fish and wildlife within the town.
§ 175-103. Floodplain regulations.
   A.   Flood control. The land subject to flooding and land deemed by the
Planning Board to be uninhabitable shall not be platted for residential
construction or occupancy, in accordance with N.J.S.A. 58:16A-50 et seq., nor
for such other uses as may increase danger to health, life or property or
aggravate the flood hazard. However, such land within the plat may be set aside
for such uses as will not be endangered by periodic or occasional inundation or
will not produce unsatisfactory living conditions.
   B.   The purposes of the following floodplain regulations are to implement
the land use rules and regulations promulgated by the New Jersey Department of
Environmental Protection for floodways and the flood fringe portion of a flood
hazard area; to discourage construction and regrading in flood hazard areas; to
prevent encroachments into flood hazard areas which would obstruct or constrict
the area through which water must pass; and to prevent pollution of
watercourses during low- or high-water periods by preventing the placing or
storing of unsanitary or dangerous substances in the flood hazard area.
      (1)   A flood hazard design elevation shall be determined on an
individual basis based upon stream encroachment line data from the Division of
Water Resources or, in the absence of that data, the flood elevation based on a
one-hundred-year storm frequency. One or the other shall be delineated on the
plat. In addition, the Planning Board Engineer may, upon receipt of the
application and with the consent of the landowner and at the landowner's
expense, determine the precise location of a floodway and flood fringe area by
close inspection, field survey or other appropriate method and cause, if
requested, the same to be marked on the ground and on the plat, and notify the
owner, the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection, Division of Water
Resources and the approving authority. The assistance of the United States
Department of Agriculture, Soil Conservation Service, United States Corps of
Engineers and the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection, Division
of Water Resources, may be sought to aid in delineating the flood hazard design
elevation, except that where state or federal agencies shall subsequently
publish any reports which delineate the flood hazard design elevation of a
watercourse, said report shall be the officially delineated flood hazard area
as if said report were published in this chapter.
      (2)   Any lot containing a floodway portion of a drainage course and on
which it is proposed to regrade and/or construct an improvement shall not be
permitted unless the proposed use is permitted by this chapter, plat approval
has been granted and a floodway permit has been issued by the New Jersey
Department of Environmental Protection, Division of Water Resources, where
required by state regulations.
      (3)   Any lot containing a flood fringe portion of the flood hazard area
and on which it is proposed to regrade and/or construct an improvement shall
not be permitted unless the proposed use is permitted by this chapter and until
plat approval has been granted.
      (4)   Any structure permitted shall be firmly anchored to prevent the
structure from floating away and thus threatening life and property.
      (5)   Any structure permitted shall be constructed and placed on the lot
so as to offer the minimum obstruction to the flow of water.
      (6)   Structures and fill, if approved, shall be constructed on the lot
so as to offer minimum obstruction to the raising of the flood hazard level; no
fill material may be brought onto the floodplain. All fill (if approved) must
come from the floodplain on the lot. Fill shall consist of soil or rock
materials only. Sanitary landfill will not be permitted.
      (7)   No on-site sewage disposal system or septic systems shall be built
within the floodplain.
      (8)   The procedure for reviewing any proposed regrading and/or
construction shall be the same as set forth for plat review. No application
shall be approved and no permit granted until all zoning violations have either
been corrected or a variance granted.
      (9)   The applicant shall submit maps, reports and other appropriate
documents permitting the approving authority to evaluate whether the proposal
has an inherent low flood damage potential; does not obstruct flood flows or
increase flood heights and/or velocities; does not affect adversely the water-
carrying capacity of any delineated floodway and/or channel; does not increase
local runoff and erosion; does not unduly stress the natural environment of the
floodplain or degrade the quality of surface water or the quality and quantity
of ground waters; does not require channel modification or relocation; does not
require fill or the erection of structures; and does not include the storage of
equipment and materials.
      (10)   The applicant shall demonstrate compliance with §
175-140, Wetlands, of this chapter.
      (11)   All applications for development in the Town of Hammonton shall
conform to the provisions of Chapter 147 of the Code of Ordinances of the Town
of Hammonton entitled "Flood Hazard Areas."
[Added 7-25-1988 by Ord. No. 16-1988]
§ 175-104. Forestry.
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989; 6-12-1989 by Ord. No. 19-1989; 7-28-1997
by Ord. No. 10-1997; 4-22-2013 by Ord. No. 005-2013]
   A.   Permit required. No forestry shall be carried out by any person unless
a permit for such an activity has been issued by the Town Zoning Officer.
Notwithstanding this requirement, no such permits shall be required for the
following forestry activities:
      (1)   Normal and customary forestry practices on residentially improved
parcels of land that are five acres or less in size;
      (2)   Tree harvesting, provided that no more than one cord of wood per
five acres of land is harvested in any one year and that no more than five
cords of wood are harvested from the entire parcel in any one year;
      (3)   Tree planting, provided that the area to be planted does not exceed
five acres in any one year, no soil disturbance occurs other than that caused
by the planting activity and no trees other than those authorized by N.J.A.C.
7:50-6.25 are to be planted;
      (4)   Forest stand improvement designed to selectively thin trees and
brush, provided that no clearing or soil disturbance occurs and that the total
land area on the parcel in which the activity occurs does not exceed five acres
in any one year; and
      (5)   Prescribed burning and the clearing and maintaining of fire breaks.
   B.   Forestry application requirements. The information in Subsection B(1)
or (2) below shall be submitted to the Town Zoning Officer prior to the
issuance of any forestry permit:
      (1)   For forestry activities on a parcel of land enrolled in the New
Jersey Forest Stewardship Program, a copy of the approved New Jersey Forest
Stewardship Plan. This document shall serve as evidence of the completion of an
application with the Pinelands Commission as well as evidence that the
activities are consistent with the standards of the Pinelands Comprehensive
Management Plan. No certificate of filing from the Pinelands Commission shall
be required.
      (2)   For all other forestry applications:
         (a)   The applicant's name and address and interest in the subject
parcel;
         (b)    The owner's name and address, if different from the
applicant's, and the owner's signed consent to the filing of the application;
         (c)   The description, including block and lot designation and street
address, if any, of the subject parcel;
         (d)   A description of all existing uses of the subject parcel;
         (e)   A brief written statement generally describing the proposed
forestry operation;
         (f)   A USGS Quadrangle map, or copy thereof, and a copy of the
municipal tax map sheet on which the boundaries of the subject parcel, the
Pinelands management area designation and the municipal zoning designation are
shown;
         (g)   A forestry management plan that includes, as appropriate:
            [1]   A cover page for the plan containing:
               [a]   The name, mailing address and telephone number of the
owner of the subject parcel;
               [b]   The municipality and county in which the subject parcel is
located;
               [c]   The block and lot designation and street address, if any,
of the subject parcel;
               [d]   The name and address of the forester who prepared the
plan, if not prepared by the owner of the subject parcel; and
               [e]   The date the plan was prepared, subsequent revision dates
and the period of time the plan is intended to cover;
            [2]   A clear and concise statement of the owner's objectives for
undertaking the proposed forestry activities, including a description of the
short- (five years) and long-term (20 years) objectives for all proposed
silvicultural techniques that will be used to manage the parcel;
            [3]   A description of the existing conditions of the subject
parcel and of each forest stand in which a proposed activity, prescription or
practice will occur. These stand descriptions shall include photographs of each
stand taken at eye level showing the location of all Pinelands Native Forest
Types, as identified at N.J.A.C. 7:50-6.43, and shall be keyed to an activity
map that shall include, as appropriate, the following information:
               [a]   The number of acres;
               [b]   The general condition and quality of each stand;
               [c]   The overall site quality, relative to the management goals
and objectives identified in Subsection (2)(g)[2] above;
               [d]   An inventory and map of Pinelands Native Forest Types with
Native Forest Types broken into "stands," including information on type, size
and volume by species;
               [e]   The age of representative trees;
               [f]   The species composition, including over story, under
story, ground layer structure and composition;
               [g]   The stand cohort composition;
               [h]   The percent cover;
               [i]   The basal area;
               [j]   The structure, including age classes, diameter breast
height (DBH) classes and crown classes;
               [k]   The condition and species composition of advanced
regeneration when applicable;
               [l]   A stocking table showing the stocking levels, growth rates
and volume;
               [m]   Projections of intended future stand characteristics at
10-, 20-, and 40-year intervals;
               [n]    A description of the forestry activities, silvicultural
prescriptions, management activities and practices proposed during the permit
period and the acreage proposed for each activity. These may include, but are
not necessarily limited to, a description of:
                  [i]   Stand improvement practices;
                  [ii]   Site preparation practices;
                  [iii]   Harvesting practices;
                  [iv]   Regeneration and reforestation practices;
                  [v]   Improvements, including road construction, stream
crossings, landings, loading areas and skid trails;
                  [vi]   Herbicide treatments;
                  [vii]   Silvicultural treatment alternatives;
                  [viii]   If planting will occur to accomplish reforestation,
the application shall include seed sources records, if such records are
available;
                  [ix]   Implementation instructions; and
                  [x]   Measures that will be taken to prevent the potential
spread of exotic plant species or Phragmites into wetlands; and
               [o]   A description, if appropriate, of the forest products to
be harvested, including volume expressed in cords and board feet; diameter
breast height (DBH) classes and average diameter; age; heights; and number of
trees per acre; and
            [4]   A map of the entire parcel which includes the following:
               [a]   The owner's name, address and the date the map was
prepared;
               [b]   An arrow designating the north direction;
               [c]   A scale which is not smaller than one inch equals 2,000
feet or larger than one inch equals 400 feet;
               [d]   The location of all property lines;
               [e]   A delineation of the physical features such as roads,
streams and structures;
               [f]   The identification of soil types (a separate map may be
used for this purpose);
               [g]   A map inset showing the location of the parcel in relation
to the local area;
               [h]   Clear location of the area and acreage in which each
proposed activity, prescription or practice will occur. If shown on other than
the property map, the map or maps shall note the scale, which shall not be
smaller than one inch equals 2,000 feet or larger than one inch equals 400
feet, and shall be appropriately keyed to the property map; and
               [i]   A legend defining the symbols appearing on the map.
         (h)   A letter from the Office of Natural Lands Management identifying
any threatened or endangered plants or animals reported on or in the immediate
vicinity of the parcel and a detailed description by the applicant of the
measures proposed to meet the standards set forth in §§
175-102 and
175-136A;
         (i)   A cultural resource survey documenting cultural resources on
those portions of the parcel where ground disturbance due to site preparation
or road construction will occur and a detailed description of the measures
proposed by the applicant to treat those cultural resources in accordance with
§
175-107;
         (j)   A statement identifying the type, location and frequency of any
proposed herbicide treatments and how such treatments will comply with the
standards set forth in Subsection C(9)(b) below;
         (k)   A statement identifying the specific steps to be taken to ensure
that trees or areas to be harvested are properly identified so as to ensure
that only those trees intended for harvesting are harvested;
         (l)    Written comments from the New Jersey State Forester concerning
the extent to which the proposed forestry activities are consistent with the
guidelines provided in the New Jersey Forestry and Wetlands Best Management
Practices Manual developed by the New Jersey Department of Environmental
Protection, dated October 1995, as amended. Any such comments which indicate
that the proposed activities are not consistent with said Manual must be
addressed by the applicant in terms of their potential impact on the standards
set forth in Subsection D. below; and
         (m)   A Certificate of Filing from the Pinelands Commission issued
pursuant to N.J.A.C. 7:50-4.34; and
         (n)   When prior approval for the forestry activities has been granted
by the Zoning Officer or other town approval agency, a letter from the
Pinelands Commission indicating that the prior approval has been reviewed
pursuant to §
175-60.
   C.   Forestry standards. Forestry operations shall be approved only if the
applicant can demonstrate that the standards set forth below are met:
      (1)   All forestry activities shall serve to maintain Pinelands native
forest types, including those which are locally characteristic, except in those
stands where other forest types exist;
      (2)   Any newly developed access to lands proposed for harvesting shall
avoid wetland areas except as absolutely necessary to harvest wetlands species
or to otherwise gain access to a harvesting site;
      (3)   The following actions shall be required to encourage the
establishment, restoration or regeneration of Atlantic White Cedar in cedar and
hardwood swamps:
         (a)   Clear cutting cedar and managing slash;
         (b)   Controlling competition by other plant species;
         (c)   Utilizing fencing and other retardants, where necessary, to
protect cedar from over browsing;
         (d)   Utilizing existing streams as cutting boundaries, where
practical;
         (e)   Harvesting during dry periods or when the ground is frozen; and
         (f)   Utilizing the least intrusive harvesting techniques, including
the use of winches, corduroy roads and helicopters, where practical.
      (4)   All forestry activities and practices shall be designed and carried
out so as to comply with the standards set forth in §§
175-102 and
175-136A. The species accounts provided in the "Recommended Forestry Management
Practices Report," Appendix I - Endangered Animals, dated March 2006, as
amended and supplemented and available at the principal office of the
Commission or at www.nj.gov/pinelands, may be utilized as a guide for meeting
these standards;
      (5)   All forestry activities and practices shall be designed and carried
out so as to comply with the standards for the land application of waste set
forth in N.J.A.C. 7:50-6.79, except as expressly authorized in this section;
      (6)   All forestry activities and practices shall be designed and carried
out so as to comply with the standards for the protection of historic,
archaeological and cultural resources set forth in §
175-107;
      (7)   A vegetated streamside management zone shall be maintained or
established adjacent to streams, ponds, lakes and marshes, except that no
streamside management zone shall be required when Atlantic White Cedar is
proposed to be harvested, established, restored or regenerated. The streamside
management zone shall be at least 25 feet in width. Where soils are severely
erodible, slopes exceed 10% or streamside vegetation is not vigorous, the
streamside management zone shall be increased up to a maximum of 70 feet to
buffer the water body from adjacent forestry activities;
      (8)   Stream crossings, access roads, timber harvesting, skid trails, log
decks, portable sawmill sites, site preparation, and reforestation shall be
designed and carried out so as to:
         (a)   Minimize changes to surface and ground water hydrology;
         (b)   Minimize changes to temperature and other existing surface water
quality and conditions;
         (c)   Prevent unnecessary soil erosion, siltation and sedimentation;
and
         (d)   Minimize unnecessary disturbances to aquatic and forest
habitats.
      (9)   The following standards shall apply to silvicultural practices for
site preparation, either before or after harvesting:
         (a)   In areas with slopes of greater than 10%, an undisturbed buffer
strip of at least 25 feet in width shall be maintained along roads during site
preparation to catch soil particles;
         (b)   Herbicide treatments shall be permitted, provided that:
            [1]   The proposed treatment is identified in the forestry
application submitted to the Zoning Officer pursuant to Subsection B(2)(j)
above;
            [2]   Control of competitive plant species is clearly necessary;
            [3]   Control of competitive plant species by other, non-chemical
means is not practical;
            [4]   All chemicals shall be expressly labeled for forestry use and
shall be used and mixed in a manner that is consistent with relevant State and
Federal requirements; and
            [5]    In Pine-Shrub Oak Native Forest Types, herbicide treatments
shall only be permitted as a method to temporarily suppress shrub-oak under
story in order to facilitate pine regeneration. All such herbicide treatments
shall be applied in a targeted manner so that there will be no significant
reduction in tree or shrub-oak re-sprouting outside those areas subject to the
herbicide treatment;
         (c)   Broadcast scarification and mechanical weeding shall be
permitted in all Pinelands Native Forest Types;
         (d)   Disking shall be permitted, provided that:
            [1]   It shall not be permitted in Pine Plains Native Forest Types;
            [2]   Disking shall only be permitted in Pine-Shrub Oak Native
Forest Types as a method to temporarily suppress shrub-oak under story in order
to facilitate pine regeneration, and shall be limited as follows:
               [a]   Disking may occur one time during the first year of the
establishment of a stand to assure the successful growth of pine seedlings and
may be repeated one time during the second year of the growth of the stand only
in areas where pine seedling establishment has not successfully occurred; and
               [b]   Only single-pass disking, which penetrates the soil no
deeper than six inches, shall be permitted.
            [3]   It shall not occur in wetlands, except as may be necessary to
establish, restore or regenerate Atlantic White Cedar. When so used, disking
shall be limited to shrub-dominated parcels and recently abandoned agricultural
lands; and
            [4]   It shall follow land contours when slopes are discernible;
         (e)   Root raking shall be permitted, provided that:
            [1]   It shall not be permitted in Pine-Shrub Oak Native Forest
Types or Pine Plains Native Forest Types;
            [2]   When used to establish, restore or regenerate Atlantic White
Cedar, root raking shall be limited to shrub-dominated parcels and recently
abandoned agricultural lands; and
            [3]   Root raking debris shall not be piled in wetlands;
         (f)   Bedding shall be permitted only in recently abandoned,
cultivated wetlands where there are no established Pinelands Native Forest
Types; and
         (g)   Drum chopping shall be permitted, provided that:
            [1]   It shall not be permitted in Pine Plains Native Forest Types
except to create road shoulder fuel breaks, which shall be limited to 25 feet
in width, or to create scattered early successional habitats under two acres in
size;
            [2]   It shall not be permitted in wetlands, except as may be
necessary to establish, restore or regenerate Atlantic White Cedar. When so
used, drum chopping shall be limited to shrub-dominated parcels and recently
abandoned agricultural lands; and
            [3]   It shall adhere to the following procedures:
               [a]   No more than two passes shall be permitted except to
create scattered early successional habitats under two acres in size;
               [b]   Drums shall remain unfilled when used during the dormant
season;
               [c]   Chop up and down the slope on a parcel so the depressions
made by the cleats and chopper blades run parallel to the contour of the land
to help reduce the occurrence of channeled surface erosion;
               [d]   Chop so the depressions made by the cleats and chopper
blades run parallel to a wetland or water body; and
               [e]   Avoid short-radius, 180-degree turns at the end of each
straight pass.
      (10)   The following standards shall apply to silvicultural practices for
harvesting:
         (a)   Clear cutting shall be permitted, provided that:
            [1]   It shall not be permitted in Pine Plains Native Forest Types;
            [2]   It shall be limited to 300 acres or 5% of a parcel, whichever
is greater, during any permit period;
            [3]   A 50-foot-wide buffer strip, in which only periodic pruning
and thinning may occur, shall be maintained between any clear-cut and the
parcel boundaries;
            [4]   A buffer strip, in which only periodic pruning and thinning
may occur, shall also be maintained to separate each 25-acre or larger clear-
cut from other 25-acre or larger clear cuts, coppice cuts and seed tree cuts
that occur within a 15-year period. The buffer strip separating two 25-acre
harvests shall be 50 feet in width and, for a larger harvest, shall increase in
width by one foot for each acre of that harvest above 25, to a maximum of 300
feet in width;
            [5]   Where present on a parcel, a minimum of 18 dead snags per
acre of at least 10 inches diameter breast height (DBH) and six feet in height
shall be left on the parcel for a minimum of five years; and
            [6]   The area of the parcel subject to the clear-cut shall have
contoured edges unless the boundary of the clear-cut serves as a firebreak in
which case straight edges may be used;
         (b)   Coppicing shall be permitted in all Pinelands Native Forest
Types, provided that:
            [1]   It shall be limited to 500 acres in size or 10% of a parcel,
whichever is greater, during any permit period;
            [2]   A 50-foot-wide buffer strip, in which only periodic pruning
and thinning may occur, shall be maintained between any coppice cut and the
parcel boundaries;
            [3]   A buffer strip, in which only periodic pruning and thinning
may occur, shall also be maintained to separate each 25-acre or larger coppice
cut from other 25-acre or larger clear cuts, coppice cuts and seed tree cuts
that occur within a 15-year period. The buffer strip separating two 25-acre
harvests shall be 50 feet in width and, for a larger harvest, shall increase in
width by one foot for each acre of that harvest above 25, to a maximum of 300
feet in width;
            [4]   Where present on a parcel, a minimum of 18 dead snags per
acre of at least 10 inches DBH and six feet in height shall be left on the
parcel for a minimum of five years; and
            [5]   The area of the parcel subject to the coppice cut shall have
contoured edges unless the boundary of the coppice cut serves as a firebreak in
which case straight edges may be used;
         (c)   Seed tree cutting shall be permitted in all Pinelands Native
Forest Types, provided that:
            [1]   It shall be limited to 500 acres in size or 10% of a parcel,
whichever is greater, during any permit period;
            [2]   A 50-foot-wide buffer strip, in which only periodic pruning
and thinning may occur, shall be maintained between any seed tree cut and the
parcel boundaries;
            [3]   A buffer strip, in which only periodic pruning and thinning
may occur, shall also be maintained to separate each 25-acre or larger seed
tree cut from other 25-acre or larger clear cuts, coppice cuts and seed tree
cuts that occur within a 15-year period. The buffer strip separating two 25-
acre harvests shall be 50 feet in width and, for a larger harvest, shall
increase in width by one foot for each acre of that harvest above 25, to a
maximum of 300 feet in width;
            [4]   Where present on a parcel, a minimum of 18 dead snags per
acre of at least 10 inches DBH and six feet in height shall be left on the
parcel for a minimum of five years;
            [5]   The area of the parcel subject to the seed tree cut shall
have contoured edges unless the boundary of the seed tree cut serves as a
firebreak in which case straight edges may be used;
            [6]   Dominant residual seed trees shall be retained at a
distribution of at least seven trees per acre; and
            [7]   Residual seed trees shall be distributed evenly throughout
the parcel; and
         (d)   Shelter wood cutting, group selection and individual selection
shall be permitted in all Pinelands Native Forest Types.
      (11)   The following standards shall apply to silvicultural practices for
forest regeneration:
         (a)   Natural regeneration shall be permitted in all Pinelands Native
Forest Types and shall be required in the Pine Plains Native Forest Type,
except as provided in Subsection (11)(b) below; and
         (b)   Artificial regeneration shall be permitted in all Pinelands
Native Forest Types provided that:
            [1]   The use of non-native cuttings, seedlings or seeds shall not
be permitted;
            [2]   The use of hybrid cuttings, seedlings or seeds shall be
permitted if it can be demonstrated that the cutting is from a locally native,
naturally occurring hybrid which will be planted within its natural range and
habitat;
            [3]   Cuttings, seedlings or seeds shall be collected and utilized
so as to ensure genetic diversity; and
            [4]   When used in Pine Plains Native Forest Types, artificial
regeneration shall only be permitted to restore drastically disturbed sites if
seeds or seedlings from the immediate vicinity have been collected from local,
genetically similar sources.
      (12)   Following site preparation and harvesting activities, slash shall
either be retained in piles on the parcel, distributed throughout the parcel,
removed from the parcel or burned.
      (13)   Thinning shall be permitted in all Pinelands Native Forest Types,
including that which serves to maintain an under story of native plants and/or
manage stand composition, density, growth and spatial heterogeneity.
      (14)   A copy of the forestry permit issued by the Town Zoning Officer
shall be conspicuously posted on the parcel which is the site of the forestry
activity.
   D.   Forestry permit procedures.
      (1)   Applications for forestry permits shall be submitted to the Zoning
Officer and shall be accompanied by an application fee of $25.
      (2)   Within 14 days of receipt of an application, the Zoning Officer
shall determine whether the application is complete and, if necessary, notify
the applicant in writing of any additional information which is necessary to
complete the application. Should the Zoning Officer fail to make such a
determination within 14 days, the application shall be considered to be
complete as of the 15th day following its submission.
      (3)   Within 45 days of determining an application to be complete
pursuant to Subsection D(2) above, or within such further time as may be
consented to by the applicant, the Zoning Officer shall issue a forestry permit
if the activities proposed in the application comply with the standards in
Subsection C above or disapprove any application which does not meet the
requirements of Subsection C above. Any such notice of disapproval shall
specifically set forth the deficiencies of the application.
      (4)   Upon receipt of a notice of disapproval pursuant to Subsection D(3)
above, the applicant shall have 30 days in which to correct the deficiencies
and submit any necessary revisions to the application to the Zoning Officer for
review. The Zoning Officer shall review the revised application to verify
conformity with the standards in Subsection C above and shall, within 14 days
of receipt of the revised application, issue a forestry permit or disapprove
the application pursuant to Subsection D(3) above.
      (5)   Failure of the Zoning Officer to act within the time period
prescribed in Subsection D(3) and (4) above shall constitute approval of the
forestry application as submitted. At the request of the applicant, a
certificate as to the failure of the Zoning Officer to act shall be issued by
the municipality and it shall be sufficient in lieu of the written endorsement
or other evidence of municipal approval required herein.
      (6)   In reviewing and issuing permits for forestry applications, the
Zoning Officer shall also comply with the Pinelands Area notice and review
procedures set forth in §§
175-60D through G.
      (7)   Forestry permits shall be valid for a period of 10 years. Nothing
in this section shall be construed to prohibit any person from securing
additional permits, provided that the requirements of this chapter and the
Pinelands Comprehensive Management Plan are met.
   E.   Administrative fees. Upon the issuance of a forestry permit pursuant to
Subsection D(3) above, the applicant shall be required to pay of a sum of $250
which shall serve as reimbursement for any administrative costs incurred by the
municipality during the ten-year permit period. The applicant shall not be
subject to any additional fees or escrow requirements for the duration of the
forestry permit.
   F.   Notification of harvesting. No harvesting shall be commenced until the
applicant has provided the Zoning Officer with 72 hours' written notice of the
intention to begin harvesting operations.
§ 175-105. Grading and filling.
   A.   All lots being filled shall be cleared of all debris, including brush
and tree stumps, and shall be filled with a clean fill and/or topsoil to allow
complete surface draining of the lot into local storm sewer systems or natural
drainage rights-of-way. No construction shall be permitted which creates or
aggravates water stagnation or a drainage problem on adjacent properties.
   B.   No trees, brush or debris shall be used as landfill or in lieu thereof,
nor shall any landfilling operation be performed in such a manner as to cover
unremoved trees and debris on any streets, lots or otherwise.
§ 175-106. Height limitations.
[Amended 10-12-1987 by Ord. No. 13-1987; 7-28-1997 by Ord. No. 10-1997]
   A.   A height limitation of 35 feet shall apply to all structures, including
radio and television transmission and other communication facilities which are
not accessory to an otherwise permitted use except as otherwise noted.
   B.   The height limitation in Subsection A above shall not apply to any of
the following structures, provided that such structures are compatible with
uses in the immediate vicinity: antennas which do not exceed a height of 200
feet and which are accessory to an otherwise permitted use; silos, barns and
other agricultural structures; church spires; cupolas; domes; monuments; water
towers; fire observation towers; electric transmission lines and supporting
structures; windmills; smokestacks; derricks; conveyors; flag poles and masts;
or aerials, solar energy facilities, chimneys and similar structures to be
placed above the roof level and not intendant for human occupancy. Such
features shall be erected only to such height as is necessary to accomplish the
purpose that they are to serve.
   C.   Except in the PA, FA, AP, AP/CLI and SAP Districts, quasi-public
buildings and public buildings, schools, churches, and other similar permitted
uses may exceed the height limit established in Subsection A above, provided
that such uses shall increase the front, rear and side yards one foot for each
foot by which such buildings exceed the height limit established for the
district within which the use is located.
[Amended 3-15-2001 by Ord. No. 14-2001]
   D.   The height limitation in Subsection A above shall not apply to the
antenna and any supporting structure of a local communication facility of
greater than 35 feet, provided that the standards set forth in N.J.A.C. 7:50-
5.40 are met.
   E.   Height limitations in Downtown and Gateway Districts shall be measured
in both feet and stories. When measuring by stories, building heights shall be
counted in half-stories, to account for buildings with visible basements or
pitched roofs. The ground story of a building is the first floor of a building
that is level to or elevated above grade. The upper stories of a building begin
at the first floor above the ground story, if located within the roof
structure.
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
§ 175-107. Historical, archaeological and cultural preservation.
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989]
   A.   A cultural resource survey shall accompany all applications for
development in the RR, R-1, R-2, R-3, H-B, M-1, REC and M-2 Districts, all
Downtown and Gateway Districts, and all applications for major development as
defined in §
175-54A in order to determine whether any significant historic resources exist
on the parcel. Guidelines for this survey are contained in Appendix B of the
"Cultural Resource Management Plan," dated April 1991, as amended. In general,
the survey shall include: a statement as to the presence of any properties
listed on the National and State Registers of Historic Places on the site or
within the area of the projects' potential environmental impacts; a thorough
search of state, local and any other pertinent inventories to identify sites of
potential significance; a review of the literature and consultation with
professional and a vocational archaeologists knowledgeable about the area;
thorough pedestrian and natural resource surveys; archaeological testing as
necessary to provide reasonable evidence of the presence or absence of historic
resources of significance; adequate methodologies and sources used; and a list
of personnel involved and qualifications of the person(s) performing the
survey.
[Amended 7-28-1997 by Ord. No. 10-1997; 12-14-1998 by Ord. No. 30-1998; 11-28-
2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
      (1)   This requirement for a survey may be waived by the local approval
agency if:
         (a)   There is insufficient evidence of cultural activity on the
project site or, in the case of archaeological resources, within the vicinity;
         (b)   The evidence of cultural activity on the site lacks the
potential for importance because further recording of the available data will
not contribute to a more comprehensive understanding of Pinelands culture; or
         (c)   The evidence of cultural activity lacks any potential for
significance pursuant to the standards of Subsection A(2) below.
      (2)   A resource shall be deemed to be significant if it possesses
integrity of location, design, setting, materials, workmanship, feeling and
association which reflects its significance in American history, architecture,
archaeology or culture under one or more of the following criteria:
         (a)   The presence of structures, sites or areas associated with
events of significance to the cultural, political, economic or social history
of the nation, state, local community or the Pinelands.
         (b)   The presence of structures, sites or areas associated with the
lives of persons or institutions of significance to the cultural, political,
economic or social history of the nation, state, local community or the
Pinelands.
         (c)   The presence of structures that represent the work of a master
or that possess high artistic values or that embody the distinctive
characteristics of a type, period or method of construction or that represent a
distinguishable entity of significance to the architectural, cultural,
political, economic or social history of the nation, state, local community or
the Pinelands, although its components may lack individual distinction.
         (d)   The presence of a site or area which has yielded or is likely to
yield significant information regarding the history or archaeological history
of the Pinelands.
   B.   The standards governing the issuance of certificates of appropriateness
in N.J.A.C. 7:50-6.156(c) shall be followed by the Planning Board and Zoning
Board of Adjustment.
   C.   The effect of the issuance of a certificate of appropriateness is as
follows:
      (1)   All subsequent development approvals shall be issued or denied in a
manner consistent with the certificate of appropriateness except as provided in
Subsection C(2) below.
      (2)   A certificate of appropriateness issued as a result of the cultural
resource survey requirement set forth in Subsection A above shall be effective
for two years. If the resource is not designated by the Pinelands Commissions
pursuant to N.J.A.C. 7:50-6.154 or by the Town Council pursuant to N.J.S.A. 40:
55D-1 et seq. within that two-year period, the historic resource standards of
this section shall no longer apply to the resource in question until such time
as the Pinelands Commission designates the resource pursuant to N.J.A.C. 7:50-
6.154.
[Amended 7-28-1997 by Ord. No. 10-1997]
   D.   The following information will be required to document resources which
are not found to be significant but which are otherwise found to present
graphic evidence of a cultural activity:
      (1)   A narrative description of the resource and its cultural
environment.
      (2)   Photographic documentation to record the exterior appearance of
buildings, structures and engineering resources.
      (3)   A site plan depicting in correct scale the location of all
buildings, structures and engineering resources.
      (4)   A New Jersey state inventory form as published by the New Jersey
Department of Environmental Protection for buildings and a narrative
description of any process or technology if necessary to elaborate upon the
photographic record.
   E.   If archaeological data is discovered on a site at any time after
construction has been commenced, the developer shall immediately cease
construction, notify the Planning Board and the Pinelands Commission and take
all reasonable steps to protect the archaeological data in accordance with the
guidelines established by the United States Department of the Interior
governing the recovery of archaeological data.
§ 175-108. Home occupations.
   Home occupations such as seamstresses, tailors, transcriptionists, web
designers, graphic artists and the like are permitted as noted in Article XIII
and shall adhere to the minimum standards of a particular zone and shall also
meet the following criteria:
[Amended 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   A.   The use shall be one which is customarily incidental to the use of the
premises as a dwelling and subordinate to the residential use of the property.
   B.   There shall be no employees working on the premises other than the bona
fide residents of the dwelling.
[Amended 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   C.   That portion of the dwelling unit utilized for the home occupation
shall not exceed 25% of the total floor area of said dwelling unit, or a
maximum of 400 square feet, whichever is lower.
[Amended 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   D.   The occupation shall be conducted entirely within the dwelling or
within an existing accessory building or buildings.
   E.   No related displays of articles for sale shall be visible from the
street.
   F.   Only articles made on the premises may be sold.
   G.   Commercial signage is not permitted.
[Amended 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   H.   There shall be no external change to the premises or its buildings
unless said change continues the appearance of the property's principal use. If
building type is changed on a lot with permitted home occupations to a building
type that does not permit home occupation, home occupation will require a
variance.
[Amended 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   I.   No mechanical equipment may be used except that which is normally used
for purely domestic or household purposes.
   J.   In no case shall any home occupation require parking to occur on the
adjacent residential streets.
   K.   Not more than four off-street parking spaces shall be allowed for the
residential plus home occupation use.
   L.   Buffers may be required based on the location of any new parking areas.
(See §
175-91.)
§ 175-109. Home professional office.
   Home professional uses are permitted as noted in Article XIII and shall
adhere to the minimum standards of a particular zone and shall also meet the
following criteria:
   A.   The term "professional office" shall include but not be limited to an
office for the use of a physician, dentist, lawyer, engineer, accountant or
other professional persons.
   B.   The use shall be one which is customarily incidental to the use of the
premises as a dwelling and subordinate to the residential use of the property.
   C.   There shall be no more than two employees working on the premises other
than the bona fide residents of the dwelling.
   D.   The use shall be conducted entirely within the dwelling or within an
accessory building or buildings.
   E.   No sign shall be larger than two square feet on each of two sides.
   F.   Not more than one professional person may utilize the residence, except
that one additional professional may be permitted, provided that both
professionals are members of the same immediate family.
   G.   That portion of the dwelling unit utilized for the professional office
shall not exceed 30% of the total floor area of said dwelling unit.
   H.   No mechanical equipment may be used except that which is normally used
for purely domestic or household purposes and with the exception of medical,
dental or office equipment.
   I.   In no case shall any home profession require parking to occur on the
adjacent residential streets.
   J.   Not more than four off-street parking spaces shall be allowed for the
residential plus home occupation use.
   K.   Buffers may be required based on the location of any new parking areas.
(See §
175-91.)
§ 175-110. Homeowners' association. [Amended 12-13-1999 by Ord. No. 25-1999]
   A homeowners' association established for the purpose of owning and
maintaining common lands and facilities, including conservation, open space,
floodplain, stormwater management and drainage facilities, recreation and park
areas and other lands which would otherwise be dedicated to the town, shall be
in accordance with the following provisions:
   A.   Membership in any created homeowners' association by all property
owners shall be mandatory. Such required membership in any created homeowners'
association and the responsibilities upon the members shall be in writing
between the association and the individual, in the form of a covenant, with
each member agreeing to his liability for his pro rata share of the
association's costs, provided that the town shall be a party beneficiary to
such covenant and entitled to enforce its provisions.
   B.   Executed deeds, with restrictions stating that the prescribed use(s) of
the lands in the common ownership shall be absolute and not subject to
reversion for possible future development, shall be tendered to the town
simultaneously with the granting of final subdivision approval.
   C.   The homeowners' association shall be responsible for liability
insurance, municipal taxes, maintenance of land and any facilities that may be
erected on any land deeded to the homeowners' association and shall hold the
town harmless from any liability.
   D.   The assessment levied by the homeowners' association shall become a
lien on the private properties in the development. The duly created homeowners'
association shall be allowed to adjust the assessment to meet changing needs,
and any deeded lands may be sold, donated or in any other way conveyed to the
town for public purposes only.
   E.   The homeowners' association initially created by the developer shall
clearly describe in its bylaws the rights and obligations of any homeowner and
tenant in the development. Before final approval, copies of the bylaws,
covenants, model deeds and articles of incorporation shall be submitted to the
town.
[Amended 3-25-2002 by Ord. No. 12-2002]
   F.   The developer shall provide a procedure by which lands will be
transferred to the homeowners' association. This schedule shall be based on a
percentage of the lots and/or homes sold or occupied. The bylaws of the
homeowners' association should include provisions which will ensure that the
maintenance responsibilities for the commonly owned land are the obligation of
the association.
   G.   Prior to preliminary approval, the developer shall submit preliminary
public water and/or public sewer system plans for the dwelling units in the
development. Prior to final approval, the developer shall submit final plans
for these systems which shall have been approved by the local and/or County
Board of Health and the State Department of Environmental Protection. No
certificate of occupancy shall be issued for any building or part thereof until
all streets, drainage, parking facilities and water and sewer facilities
servicing said structure are properly completed and functioning.
   H.   All members of the homeowners' association shall be given notice in the
homeowners' association documents that, should the homeowners' association
become insolvent or file for protection under the United States Bankruptcy Act,
the individual lot owners shall be required to repair and replace any part of
the stormwater management system, including any structural component, for a
period of two years after inspection and release of the maintenance guarantee
for the site improvements. If the owner fails to complete any required repairs
and/or replacement required to the stormwater management system, the town may
perform said repair and/or replacement and the cost thereof shall be charged to
this owner of the property in accordance with §
175-133C(3).
§ 175-111. Hotels and motels.
   A.   Any hotel or motel that may be constructed on a lot or parcel of land
must contain a minimum of at least 10 units of accommodation, exclusive of a
permanent, on-site superintendent's living quarters. The minimum number of
units of accommodation in any single building shall be five.
   B.   Each unit of accommodation shall conform to all applicable building
codes of the State of New Jersey.
   C.   Each unit of accommodation shall include a minimum of two rooms, a
bedroom and a separate bathroom.
   D.   There shall be a residency limitation for guests of 30 days maximum.
The foregoing residency limitation shall not apply to an employee living on the
premises.
   E.   All of the area, yard, building coverage and height requirements of the
respective zone and other applicable requirements of this chapter must be met.
§ 175-112. On-site lighting.
   All parking areas and walkways thereto and appurtenant passageways and
driveways serving commercial, public, office, industrial, apartment or other
similar uses having common off-street parking and/or loading areas and building
complexes requiring area lighting shall be adequately illuminated for security
and safety purposes. The lighting plan in and around the parking areas shall
provide for nonglare, color-corrected lights focused downward. The light
intensity provided at ground level shall be a minimum of 0.3 foot-candle
anywhere in the area to be illuminated and shall average a minimum of 0.5 foot-
candle over the entire area, and shall be provided by fixtures with a mounting
height not more than 25 feet for the height of the building, whichever is less,
measured from the ground level to the center line of the light source, spaced a
distance not to exceed five times the mounting height. Any other outdoor
lighting, such as building and sidewalk illumination, driveways with no
adjacent parking, the lighting of signs and ornamental lighting, shall be shown
on the lighting plan in sufficient detail to allow determination of the effects
to adjacent properties, traffic safety and overhead sky glow. The objective of
these specifications is to minimize undesirable off-premises effects. No light
shall shine directly into windows or onto streets and driveways in such a
manner as to interfere with or distract driver vision. To achieve these
requirements, the intensity of such light sources, the light shielding and
similar characteristics shall be subject to site plan approval by the Planning
Board.
§ 175-112.1. Lot grading and drainage.
[Added 7-25-2005 by Ord. No. 31-2005]
   A.   Applicability.
      (1)   The requirements set forth herein shall apply to the development of
all lots within the Town of Hammonton for residential purposes. For
developments where an overall grading plan has already been reviewed and
approved by either the Planning Board or the Zoning Board of Adjustment, the
review and approval of an individual lot grading plan prior to the issuance of
a building permit is required to ensure general compliance with the overall
grading plan. Any lot greater than one acre shall not be subject to the
requirement to submit an individual lot grading plan, unless in the opinion of
the Town Construction Official or the Town Engineer there are special
circumstances to require an individual lot grading plan.
      (2)   This section applies to any construction, reconstruction or
relocation of any residential structure; the enlargement of a residential
structure; the construction or placement of any accessory structure on a
residential lot resulting in a land disturbance in excess of 500 square feet on
a one-third-acre parcel or in excess of 800 square feet on a lot over 1/3 acre.
   B.   Nothing contained herein shall prohibit the Town Engineer from
requiring a new, overall grading plan for review and approval. If in the
opinion of the Town Engineer the revised grading plan substantially deviates
from the prior approval, the applicant shall be required to seek the approval
of the applicable board.
   C.   If in the opinion of the Town Engineer a revised grading plan
substantially deviates from the prior approval, the applicant shall be required
to seek the approval of the applicable board.
   D.   Foundation location survey. The State of New Jersey, through the
Uniform Construction Code, requires that a foundation location survey be
submitted to the Town Construction Official as soon as possible after the
installation of the foundation wall. Further, the final verification of such a
prior approval rests with the Construction Official. This plan shall be
prepared by a land surveyor licensed by the State of New Jersey and show all
building corners of the foundation in relation to the approved setbacks. The
plan shall also note appropriate elevations to confirm that the top of block
elevation conforms to the approved plan. The permittee shall also submit a copy
of the foundation location survey to the Town Engineer for review. The
foundation survey shall contain the top of block elevations.
   E.   Final survey (as-built plan).
      (1)   Prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy, the permittee
shall submit two copies of an accurate final survey (as-built plan) to the Town
Construction Official and the Town Engineer for approval. The final survey (as-
built plan) shall be prepared by a New Jersey-licensed professional land
surveyor. The purpose of the final survey (as-built plan) is to ensure that the
lot grading is in substantial conformance to the approved plan and that the lot
will adequately drain, provide stormwater storage or recharge facilities if
required, and have no adverse impact on adjoining properties. The final survey
(as-built plan) shall be reviewed by the Town Engineer and the Construction
Official and determined to comply with the above standards.
      (2)   The final survey (as-built plan) must be on file with the
Construction Official's office no later than 14 days prior to the applicant
seeking a certificate of occupancy. Any applications submitted after this time
frame are not guaranteed an approval or issuance of a certificate of occupancy
prior to closing.
   F.   Performance standards.
      (1)   All grading and stormwater storage or recharge facilities shall be
done in a manner that will result in no adverse impact to adjacent properties.
Adjacent properties with natural swales and/or wetlands must be evaluated to
ensure that adequate capacity is available to accept the runoff from the site
being developed and graded. Whenever possible, the land shall be graded in one
of the following methods:
         (a)   The rear yard shall drain over land to the street through side
yard swales on either side of the house, located on the common property lines
with adjoining lots, and the front yard shall drain directly to the street;
         (b)   The rear yard shall drain and be collected in a system of
interior yard inlets and piping designed in accordance with accepted standards,
connected to the development's overall stormwater drainage system, and the
front yard shall drain directly to the street; or
         (c)   The rear yard shall drain overland onto adjoining properties as
permitted by right, i.e., no net increase in rate of runoff or manner of flow
or via an acceptable easement, and the front yard shall drain directly to the
street.
         (d)   The grading plans at all times shall be consistent with the
current state stormwater standards. On-site collection, storage and recharge
facilities shall be constructed to assist in the infiltration of stormwater
runoff within the individual lot.
      (2)   No more than three lots in a row shall be allowed to drain through
a swale unless protected by an acceptable easement.
      (3)   The minimum slope for swales, lawns, and disturbed areas shall be
2% and for smooth, hard surfaces, i.e., driveways, 0.5%. If slopes of 2% cannot
be maintained for swales, a grade of 1.5% may be acceptable, if in the opinion
of the Town Engineer the proposed grading plans provide adequate provisions for
on-site stormwater recharge and no adverse impacts to adjacent parcels will
result from the proposed improvements and grading of the subject property.
      (4)   The maximum grade for driveways shall be 10% unless waived by the
Town Engineer under special circumstances.
      (5)   The top of block elevation shall be a minimum of eight inches above
the highest adjacent grade and shall be provided on all grading plans. The
notation of the finished floor alone is not acceptable.
      (6)   Grading within eight feet of the dwelling shall be in accordance
with local building codes.
      (7)   Retaining walls over three feet in height must be designed by a
licensed professional and then reviewed and approved by the Town Engineer and
Construction Official.
      (8)   Topsoil moved during the course of construction shall be
redistributed so as to provide at least five inches of spread cover to all
seeded and planted areas of the development and shall be stabilized in
accordance with Soil Conservation District (SCD) standards to prevent the
potential for erosion. Topsoil shall be reasonably free of stone and contain no
stones larger than two inches in any dimension. In the event that the quantity
of topsail at the site is insufficient to provide five inches of cover for all
seeded and planted areas, the permittee shall provide and distribute a
sufficient quantity of topsoil to provide such cover. The composition of any
borrowed topsoil shall be in accordance with New Jersey Department of
Transportation (NJDOT) and Soil Conservation District (BCD) standards and
suitable for use in a residential setting.
      (9)   The permittee may request a waiver of a particular performance
standard upon presentation of supporting documentation provided by the
applicant's engineering professional that satisfactorily addresses grading and
stormwater recharge concerns. The Town Engineer shall have the authority to
review the request and grant such a waiver request, provided that it is not
inconsistent with the intent of the section.
   G.   Performance bond and inspection escrow. Where a performance bond and
inspection escrow have already been or will be established in accordance with
major subdivision application standards, the requirements for the posting of
fees and escrows may be waived as set forth in this section, unless the
permittee elects to proceed with the fixed fee schedule. In those instances
where a permittee elects not to proceed with the fixed fee schedule, a separate
line item for lot grading and stabilization shall be included in the
performance bond estimate and inspection escrow deposit, which shall be
calculated pursuant to the Municipal Land Use Law (Chapter 291, Laws of N.J.
1975, N.J.S.A. 40:55D-1 et seq.). If the applicant seeks a certificate of
occupancy prior to stabilizing the property in accordance with SCD standards,
the bond amount for grading, stabilization and yard drainage for nonmunicipal
property shall be $2,000 per acre actually disturbed. Separate items are to be
listed for municipal private residential property. The item of grading and
stabilization for private residential property shall not convert over to any
subsequent maintenance bond. Dollar amounts set aside for grading and
stabilization purposes shall be updated as the need arises.
   H.   All conditions and requirements herein shall be consistent with the
Pinelands Stormwater Management Standards as set forth in the Pinelands
Comprehensive Management Plan and any standard adopted hereto.
   I.   All of the requirements for the control of grading and drainage of
residential lots shall be required to adhere to a checklist and application
which shall be prepared by the Town Construction Official after review and
approval by the Planning Board.
   J.   Fees:
      (1)   Town application fee: $30.
      (2)   Grading plan review, as-built review and inspection escrow: $300.
      (3)   Review revised grading plan escrow (as needed): $100.
      (4)   Foundation location and elevation review escrow (as needed): $50.
      (5)   Reinspection of as-built conditions escrow (as needed): $100.
§ 175-113. Lots.
   A.   Lot dimensions and area shall not be less than the requirements of the
Zoning Ordinance.
   B.   Side lot lines shall be substantially at right angles to straight
street lines and radial to curved street lines.
   C.   Each lot must have at least 50 feet of frontage upon an accepted
street, unless otherwise specified in this code.
[Amended 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   D.   Where extra width has been dedicated for the widening of existing
streets, lots shall begin at such new street line, and all setbacks shall be
measured from such line.
   E.   Where there is a question as to the suitability of a lot or lots for
their intended use due to factors such as rock formations, topography, internal
drainage, flood conditions or similar circumstances, the Board may, after
adequate investigation, withhold approval of such lots. The Board may require
certification by a professional engineer substantiated with soil borings that
the soil has sufficient bearing capacity for building foundations and that the
surface elevation is sufficiently above groundwater depth in the area.
   F.   Building lot abutting street. No permit for the erection of any
building or structure shall be issued unless the lot abuts a street giving
access to such proposed building or structure. Such street shall have been duly
placed on the Official Map or shall be an existing state, county or municipal
street or highway; a street shown upon a plat approved by the Planning Board;
or a street on a duly filed plat in the office of the County Clerk prior to the
passage of an ordinance under this act or any prior law which required prior
approval of plats by the governing body or other authorized body. Before any
such permit shall be issued, such street shall have been certified to be
suitably improved to the satisfaction of the Town Council, or such suitable
improvement shall have been assured by means of a performance guaranty in
accordance with standards and specifications for road improvements approved by
the Town Council, as adequate in respect to the public health, safety and
general welfare of the special circumstances of the particular street.
   G.   Relaxation of abutment requirement. Where the enforcement of Subsection
F above would entail practical difficulty or unnecessary hardship, or where the
circumstances of the case do not require the building or structure to be
related to a street, the Zoning Board of Adjustment or Planning Board may, upon
application or appeal, vary the application of Subsection F and direct the
issuance of a permit subject to conditions that will provide adequate access
for fire-fighting equipment, ambulances and other emergency vehicles necessary
for the Protection of health and safety, and that will protect any future
street layout shown on the Official Map or on a general circulation plan
element of the Municipal Master Plan. [See N.J.S.A. 40:55D-28b(4).]
      (1)   Any application or appeal pursuant to this section shall be
governed by §§
175-28,
175-30 and
175-31A, F and G of this chapter.
      (2)   Lot dimensions and area shall not be less than the requirements of
the zoning provisions.
      (3)   Insofar as is practical, side lot lines shall be either at right
angles or radial to street lines.
§ 175-114. Mobile agricultural employee housing.
[Amended 3-12-1990 by Ord. No. 7-1990; 6-25-1990 by Ord. No. 13-1990]
   The seasonal housing of agricultural employees in mobile homes shall be
permitted accessory to an active agricultural operation, provided that:
   A.   Such farm contains at least 10 acres in agricultural production and is
situate within an AP Zoning District.
   B.   Occupancy of all such housing shall be permitted only from May 1
through October 31 of each year, provided that each mobile home is inspected
prior to occupancy and a certificate of occupancy is issued designating therein
the maximum number of persons permitted to occupy the mobile home. All fees
shall be paid consistent with fees charged for the issuance of occupancy
permits for each mobile home or building.
   C.   Such buildings, between November 1 and April 30 of each year, shall be
disconnected from all utilities and removed to a designated storage area.
   D.   Such buildings shall be certified for occupancy by OSHA and any other
agency having jurisdiction thereof.
   E.   Applicants for the establishment of such buildings shall obtain
approval from the Planning Board and comply with the Pinelands notice and
review procedures contained in §
175-60.
§ 175-115. Mobile homes.
[Amended 3-12-1990 by Ord. No. 7-1990; 6-25-1990 by Ord. No. 13-1990]
   No trailer, auto trailer, travel trailer, mobile home or camper shall be
used for dwelling purposes or as sleeping quarters for one or more persons, nor
shall any such trailer or camper be used for storage or space for the permanent
conduct of any business, profession, occupation or trade, except that such
facilities may be used for temporary residency for the emergency replacement of
a damaged dwelling unit, seasonal agricultural housing in accordance with §
175-114 and for use as a temporary construction office located on a site during
construction, provided that a temporary permit has been issued by the Building
Inspector. In addition, the use of mobile homes for seasonal agricultural
employee housing shall require Planning Board approval and shall be subject to
the Pinelands notice and review requirements of §
175-60. However, it shall not be necessary for applicants for such agricultural
housing to obtain permits annually unless the provisions of §
175-114 have been violated or a change in the housing has occurred or is
proposed from that which was previously approved. This section shall not be
construed so as to prohibit the parking or storage of such trailers and campers
on private premises or the recreational use of the same in campgrounds in
conformance with all applicable ordinances and codes.
§ 175-116. Monuments.
   Monuments shall be of the size and shape required by Section 3 of P.L. 1960,
c. 141,  19 and shall be placed in accordance with said statute.
 
Notes
19 19.   Editor's Note: See N.J.S.A. 46:23-9.11.
§ 175-117. Nonconforming uses, structures or lots.
   A.   The lawful use of land or structures or building types existing at the
date of adoption of this chapter, as amended, may be continued although such
use or structure is nonconforming to the provisions specified in this chapter,
as amended, for the zoning district in which such use or structure or building
type is located, except as provided by law.
[Amended 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   B.   Any nonconforming use or structure or building type which has been
changed to a conforming use or structure or building type shall not be changed
back again into a nonconforming use or structure.
[Amended 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   C.   Any nonconforming use, structure, building type or lot may change
ownership and continue to function as the same nonconforming use, structure,
building type or lot, provided that all other provisions of this chapter and
other applicable laws are met.
[Amended 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   D.   Repairs and maintenance work required to keep a structure in sound
condition may be made to a nonconforming structure or a structure containing a
nonconforming use or building type. No structure containing a nonconforming use
or building type shall be enlarged, extended, constructed, reconstructed or
structurally altered in any manner without an appeal to the Board of Adjustment
subject to Section 5-102 of the CMP. A prior nonconforming structure or
building type may be enlarged, extended, constructed or structurally altered if
such alteration or enlargement neither increases the existing nonconformity nor
creates a new violation. A prior nonconforming structure or building type shall
not be reconstructed if destroyed, without an appeal to the Board of
Adjustment.
[Amended 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   E.   Any lot upon which a nonconforming use or structure is located shall
not be reduced in size, nor shall any lot already nonconforming be made more
nonconforming in any manner. Also, no expansion of a structure not meeting
current setback requirements shall be permitted to that portion [front, rear
and/or side(s)] of the structure not meeting current setback requirements.
[Amended 10-12-1987 by Ord. No. 13-1987]
   F.   Any lot on which is located a dwelling with existing nonconforming
building setbacks on either the existing or the created lot utilizing the
current standards for the zoning district in which each lot is located.
However, subject to the compliance with the zoning standards pertaining to the
particular zoning district in question.
[Added 10-12-1987 by Ord. No. 13-1987]
   G.   Any vacant lot in an RR, R-1, R-2, R-3 or MD Zoning District existing
at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this chapter, whose area or
dimensions do not meet the requirements of the district in which the lot is
located but which has a minimum frontage of 50 feet and a minimum lot area of
6,000 square feet, may have a construction permit issued for a single-family
detached dwelling, provided that the building coverage does not exceed 40%,
parking requirements are met, front and rear yard building setbacks are a
minimum of 30 feet or the setback of adjacent properties, whichever is less,
and no side yard shall be less than 10 feet, provided that public sanitary
sewer and water is available.
[Amended 10-12-1987 by Ord. No. 13-1987; 7-26-2004 by Ord. No. 18-2004]
   H.   Any existing lot which contains a principal building used for a
permitted principal use that meets the lot area and lot frontage requirements
of § 175-117G. and lot coverage requirements of the applicable zoning district,
but does not meet the applicable lot area, lot depth, lot frontage, lot width
requirements of the applicable zoning district, and/or the principal building
does not meet the applicable front yard, side yard, and rear yard setbacks and/
or height requirements of the applicable zoning district, which are existing
non-conforming conditions, may construct an addition to the principal building
and/or construct an accessory structure on the lot without the need for a
variance, provided that it can be demonstrated to the administrative officer
that:
      (1)   The accessory structure and/or building addition itself, does not
violate any requirements of
Chapter 175, including, but not limited to, height, setbacks, area, or parking.
[Added 12-18-2023 by Ord. No. 026-2023]
§ 175-118. Off-street parking and loading.
[Amended 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   A.   General provisions.
      (1)   Lighting. All parking areas providing five or more parking spaces
shall be lighted in accordance with the provisions specified in §
175-112 of this chapter.
      (2)   Surfacing and curbing. All on-site, off-street parking and loading
areas and access driveways shall be paved and curbed as recommended by the Town
Engineer and approved by the Planning Board as part of the site plan approval.
      (3)   Location of parking spaces. All required off-street parking spaces
shall be located on the same lot or premises as the use served, unless premises
is located in a Downtown or Gateway District, when shared-parking agreements or
easements may be considered (see §
175-96 Easements).
      (4)   Landscaping.
         (a)   Each off-street parking area shall have a minimum area
equivalent to one parking space per every 30 parking spaces landscaped, with ½
of said spaces having shrubs no higher than three feet and the other half
having trees with branches no lower than seven feet. Such space shall be
distributed throughout the parking area in order to break the view of long rows
of parked cars in a manner not impairing visibility.
         (b)   All loading areas shall be landscaped and screened sufficiently
to obscure the view of the loading platforms from any public street, adjacent
residential districts or uses and the front yards of adjacent commercial and
industrial uses. Such screening shall be by a fence, wall, planting or
combination of the three and shall not be less than four feet in height.
      (5)   Type of facility. Parking spaces may be on, above or below the
surface of the ground. When parking spaces are provided within a garage or
other structure, said structure shall adhere to the proper accessory or
principal building setbacks, as applicable.
      (6)   The provision of parking spaces shall also include adequate
driveways and necessary turning areas for handling the vehicles for which
provision is made. Except for detached and two-family dwelling units, parking
areas shall be designed to permit each motor vehicle to proceed to and from the
parking space provided for it without requiring the moving of any other motor
vehicles. Aisles providing access to parking spaces shall have the following
minimum dimensions. Where the angle of parking is different on both sides of
the aisle, the larger aisle width shall prevail.
 
Angle of Parking Spaces  One-Way Aisle  Two-Way Aisle (feet)
(degrees)                (feet)
90º                     22             25
60º                     18             20
45º                     15             20
30º                     12             18
Parallel                 12             18
 
   B.   Specific requirements. Each individual use shall provide parking spaces
according to the following provisions. Where a permitted use of land includes
different specific activities with different specific parking requirements, the
total number of required parking spaces shall be obtained by individually
computing the parking requirements for each different activity and adding the
resulting numbers together.
      (1)   Residential.
         (a)   Single-family detached or attached or two-family dwelling units
shall provide two spaces for each dwelling unit.
         (b)   Apartments or other multifamily-type units shall provide 1.75
spaces per unit.
      (2)   Churches shall provide one space per every five permanent seats.
One seat shall be considered 22 inches in calculating the capacity of pews or
benches.
      (3)   Golf courses and public utilities shall provide sufficient spaces
and maneuvering area to prevent any parking along public rights-of-way or
private driveways, fire lanes and aisles.
      (4)   Local retail and service activities, banks and offices shall
provide parking at a ratio of five spaces per 1,000 square feet of gross floor
area, or in accordance with the Institute of Transportation Engineers Parking
Generation Manual or alternative documented sources. These requirements may be
waived if shared parking agreements are created.
      (5)   Theaters shall provide one space for every four seats. This
requirement may be waived if the theater is located within a shopping center
and the minimum requirements for the theater can be met by other shopping
center activities.
      (6)   Bowling alleys shall provide four spaces per bowling lane.
      (7)   Service stations shall provide at least six spaces for the first
lift, wheel alignment pit or similar work area; five additional spaces for a
second work area; and an additional three spaces for each additional work area.
Such spaces shall be separated from the driveway and general apron areas which
give access to the gasoline and air pumps and service areas. No designated
parking space shall obstruct access to such facilities.
      (8)   Automobile, camper and travel trailer sales shall provide 10 spaces
for customer convenience, separated from vehicular displays and not used by
employees.
      (9)   Car washes shall provide two access lanes for each mechanized car
wash entrance, with each lane having a minimum capacity for 15 vehicles; one
separate space for each waxing, upholstery, cleaning or similar specialized
service area; and one space for every two employees. All vehicle entrances
shall be from the rear of the building, and all parked and waiting vehicles
shall be accommodated on the lot.
      (10)   Hotels and motels shall provide 11/4 spaces per room.
      (11)   Manufacturing plants, industrial plants and wholesale distribution
centers and warehouses shall provide parking at the ratios of one space for
every 1,000 square feet of gross floor area used for inside storage and
warehousing, plus one space for every 700 feet of gross floor area used for
manufacturing, plus one space for every 200 square feet of gross floor area
used for offices. Additionally, one space shall be provided for every vehicle
owned and/or operated by the use operating from the site.
      (12)   Auto body shops, welding shops and auto repair garages shall
provide parking at a ratio of one space for every 700 feet of gross floor area
used for the auto body, repair or welding work, plus one space for every 200
square feet of floor area used for office space. Additionally, one space shall
be provided for every vehicle owned or operated by the use operating from the
site.
      (13)   Club, eating and/or drinking establishments shall provide 10
parking spaces for the first 200 square feet of floor area and one space for
each additional 100 square feet thereafter.
      (14)   Other uses. Uses other than specified herein shall provide one
parking space for each 400 square feet of floor spaces.
      (15)   A reduction of up to 20% in the total number of spaces required
may be granted upon a showing of adequacy of fewer spaces; provided, however,
that area for the additional spaces is available if necessary at a later date.
   C.   Specific requirements for Downtown Districts and Gateway Districts.
This parking standard for residential development is based on the need to
provide flexibility with respect to permitted changes of use, both residential
and non-residential, for this structure type within the context of infill
development and redevelopment in the Downtown Districts. This standard is
consistent with the master plan for the downtown area and with the Off Street
Parking Standards in §
175-118.A. and B. This standard shall be effective if a de-minimus exception,
waiver or special area standard is granted pursuant to the Residential Site
Improvement Standards at N.J.A.C. 5:21-3, otherwise the standards provided in
Table 4.4 at N.J.A.C. 5:21-4.14 shall be effective. This standard shall be
effective if a de minimus exception, waiver or special area standard is granted
pursuant to the Residential Site Improvement Standards at N.J.A.C. 5:21-3,
otherwise the standards provided in Table 4.4 at N.J.A.C. 5:21-4.14 shall be
effective.
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
§ 175-119. Contributions for off-tract improvements.
   A.   An applicant or developer, as a condition for approval of a subdivision
or site plan, shall be required to pay his pro rata share of the cost of
providing only reasonable and necessary street improvements and water, sewage
and drainage facilities, and easements therefor, located outside the property
limits of the subdivision or development but necessitated or required by
construction or improvements within such subdivision or development. Such cost
distributed shall be based on circulation and comprehensive utility service
plans pursuant to §
175-11A(2)(d) and (e) [See N.J.S.A. 40:55D-28b(4) and (5)], respectively. Fair
and reasonable standards shall be used to determine the proportionate or pro
rata amount of the cost of such facilities that shall be borne by each
applicant/developer or owner within a related and common area. These standards
shall not be altered subsequent to preliminary approval.
   B.   Where an applicant/developer pays the amount determined as his pro rata
share under protest, he shall institute legal action within one year of such
payment in order to preserve the right to a judicial determination of the
fairness and reasonableness of such amount.
   C.   Improvements to be constructed at the sole expense of the applicant. In
cases where the need for an off-site improvement is created by the proposed
subdivision and where no other property owners receive a special benefit
thereby, the Planning Board may require the applicant, as a condition for
subdivision approval and at the applicant's expense, to acquire lands outside
of the subdivision and improve and dedicate such lands to the town or the
county or, in lieu thereof, require the applicant to deposit with the town a
sum of money sufficient to allow the town to acquire and to improve such lands,
subject to and in furtherance of the terms and provisions of this chapter.
   D.   Other improvements.
      (1)   In cases where the need for any off-site improvements is created by
the proposed subdivision and where the Planning Board determines that
properties outside the subdivision will also be benefited by the improvement,
the Planning Board shall forthwith forward to the Town Council a list and
description of all such improvements, together with its request that the Town
Council determine and advise the Board of the procedure to be followed in the
construction or installation thereof.
      (2)   The Town Council, after receipt of said list and description, shall
determine and advise the Planning Board whether:
         (a)   The improvement or improvements are to be constructed or
installed by the town:
            [1]   As a general improvement, the cost of which is to be borne at
general expense (except as hereinafter otherwise provided as to a contribution
thereto by the applicant);
            [2]   As a local improvement, all or part of the cost of which is
to be specifically assessed against properties benefited thereby in proportion
to benefits conferred by the improvements in accordance with Chapter 56 of
Title 40 of the Revised Statutes (except as hereinafter otherwise provided as
to a contribution thereto by the applicant); or
         (b)   The improvement or improvements are to be constructed or
installed by the applicant under a formula for partial reimbursement as
hereinafter set forth.
      (3)   If the governing body shall determine that the improvement or
improvements shall be constructed or installed under Subsection D(2)(a)[1]
hereinabove, the Planning Board shall estimate, with the aid of the Board
Engineer or such other persons as have pertinent information or expertise, the
amount, if any, by which the total cost thereof will exceed the total amount by
which all properties, including the subdivision, will be specifically benefited
thereby, and the applicant shall be liable to the town for such excess.
Further, the Town Council shall adopt an ordinance authorizing and providing
for the financing of the improvement or improvements in a manner consistent
with the obligation of the applicant to any excess of total cost over total
benefits conferred, as set forth above.
      (4)   If the Town Council shall determine that the improvement or
improvements shall be constructed or installed under Subsection D(2)(a)[2]
hereinabove, the Planning Board shall, as provided in Subsection D(3)
hereinabove, estimate the difference between the total costs to be incurred and
the total amount by which all properties to be benefited thereby, including the
subdivision property, will be specially benefited by the improvement, and the
applicant shall be liable to the town therefor, as well as for the amount of
any special assessments against the subdivision property for benefits conferred
by the improvement or improvements. Further, the Town Council shall adopt an
ordinance authorizing and providing for the financing of the improvement or
improvements and the assessment of benefits arising therefor in a manner
consistent with the obligation of the applicant with respect thereto; and
proceedings under said ordinance shall be in accordance with Chapter 56 of
Title 40 of the Revised Statutes, except to the extent modified by the
obligation of the applicant for any excess of total cost over total benefits
conferred, as set forth above.
      (5)   If the Town Council shall determine that the improvement or
improvements are to be constructed or installed by the applicant under
Subsection D(2)(b) hereinabove, the Planning Board shall in like manner
estimate the amount of such excess and the applicant shall be liable to the
town therefor, as well as for the amount of any special assessments against the
subdivision property for benefits conferred by the improvement or improvements.
However, the applicant shall be entitled to be reimbursed by the town for the
amount of any special assessments against property other than the subdivision
for benefits conferred by the improvement or improvements, such reimbursement
to be made if, as and when the special assessments against such other property
are received by the town. Further, the Town Council shall adopt an ordinance
authorizing and providing for the assessment against all properties, including
the subdivision, of benefits conferred by the improvement or improvements; and
proceedings under said ordinance shall be in accordance with Chapter 56 of
Title 40 of the Revised Statutes. However, any such assessment against the
subdivision property shall be marked paid and satisfied in consideration of the
construction or installation of the improvement or improvements by the
applicant.
      (6)   If the Town Council shall not adopt such an ordinance or resolution
within said time, the final subdivision shall be designed accordingly, and the
Planning Board shall thereupon grant or deny final approval.
§ 175-120. Performance standards.
   An application for a permit shall provide relevant documentation that the
intended use will comply with the performance standards enumerated below. In
the case of a structure being built where the future use is not known, a
construction permit may be issued until such time as this documentation is
submitted with respect to the particular occupant. It shall be the burden of
the applicant to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the proposed use meets
the standards required by this chapter.
   A.   Electricity. Electric or electronic equipment shall be shielded so that
there is no interference with any radio or television reception at the lot line
or beyond the operator's dwelling unit, in the case of multifamily dwellings,
as the result of the operation of such equipment. Electronic equipment shall be
in accordance with Federal Communications Commission standards.
   B.   Glare. No use shall produce a strong, dazzling light or a reflection of
a strong, dazzling light or glare beyond its lot lines. Exterior lighting shall
be shielded, buffered and directed so that glare, direct light or reflection
will not become a nuisance to adjoining properties, adjoining dwelling units,
adjoining districts or streets.
   C.   Heat. No use shall produce heat perceptible beyond its lot lines.
Further, no use shall be permitted which would cause the temperature to rise or
fall in any part of ponds, streams or other watercourses.
   D.   Noise. Noise levels for commercial and industrial enterprises shall be
designed and operated in accordance with the regulations established by the New
Jersey State Department of Environmental Protection, as they are adopted and
amended.
   E.   Odor. Odors shall not be discernible at the lot line or beyond to such
an extent that they become a nuisance.
   F.   Storage and waste disposal. No materials or wastes shall be deposited
upon a lot in such form or manner that they may be transferred off the lot by
natural causes or forces, nor shall any substance be deposited which can
contaminate an underground aquifer or otherwise render such underground aquifer
undesirable as a source of water supply or recreation or which will destroy
aquatic life. All materials or wastes which might cause fumes or dust or which
constitute a fire hazard or which may be edible or otherwise attractive to
rodents or insects shall be stored indoors and enclosed in appropriate
containers adequate to eliminate such hazards.
   G.   Vapor. No use shall produce smoke, ash, dust, fumes, vapors, gases or
other forms of air pollution which could cause damage to the health of any
person, animal or vegetation or which could cause excessive soiling.
   H.   Vibration. There shall be no vibration which is discernible to the
human sense of feel beyond the immediate site on which such use is located.
   I.   Airborne emissions. In all districts, no use, activity, operation or
device shall be established, modified, constructed or used without having
obtained valid permits and certificates from the Bureau of Air Pollution
Control, N.J.D.E.P. 7:27-8. Specifically, no use, activity, operation or device
shall be established, modified or constructed without a valid permit to
construct. No use, activity, operation or device shall be operated, occupied or
used without a valid certificate to operate control apparatus or equipment.
Proof of compliance with this requirement shall be the submission of duplicate
copies of the permit to construct and certificate to operate. In addition to
the requirements of the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection, the
following shall also apply:
      (1)   Steam emissions. No visible emissions of steam having an equivalent
capacity greater than 60% and excepting direct results of combustion shall be
permitted within 500 feet of a residential district.
      (2)   Toxic matter. Emissions of chemicals, gases, components or
elements, listed as being toxic matter by the American Conference of
Governmental Hygienist, the New Jersey Department of Labor and Industry or the
United States Environmental Protection Agency shall not exceed the threshold
level, as determined in accordance with A.S.T.M.D. 1391. The emission of
concentrations, levels or mass loadings in excess of the threshold value shall
be permitted only if the emissions of said toxic matter comply with the
applicable regulations of the New Jersey Department of Environmental
Protection, the New Jersey Department of Labor and Industry, and the United
States Environmental Protection Agency. Proof of compliance shall require the
submission of duplicate copies of certifications or permits from the New Jersey
Department of Environmental Protection and the New Jersey Department of Labor
and Industry approving the concentrations, level or loading proposed by the
applicant.
   J.   Greenhouse gas emissions. Effort shall be made to reduce vehicle trips
required per household.
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
§ 175-121. Number of principal structures and uses permitted.
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989; 3-22-2010 by Ord. No. 3-2010; 11-28-2011
by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   Unless otherwise specified for a particular zoning district, no more than
one principal building or structure shall be permitted on one lot except as
otherwise noted in this chapter. Unless otherwise specified for a particular
zoning district, no more than one principal use shall be located on one lot,
except for forestry, agriculture, horticulture, fish and wildlife management,
and recreational development on agricultural lands.
§ 175-122. Public utilities.
   All public services shall be connected to an approved public utilities
system where one exists.
   A.   Except as permitted under the provisions of Subsection B of this
section, the developer shall arrange with the servicing utility for the
underground installation of the utilities' distribution supply lines and
service connections. New utility distribution lines and telephone lines to
locations not presently served by utilities shall be placed underground, except
for those lines which are located on or adjacent to active agricultural
operations.
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989]
   B.   The developer may be required to submit to the approving authority,
prior to the granting of final approval, a written instrument from each serving
utility which shall evidence full compliance or intended full compliance with
the provisions of this section; provided however, that lots which abut existing
streets where overhead electric or telephone distribution supply lines and
service connections have heretofore been installed may be supplied with
electric and telephone service utilities overhead. In the case of existing
overhead utilities, should a road widening or an extension of service or other
such condition occur as a result of the development and necessitate the
replacement, relocation or extension of overhead lines, such new facilities
shall be installed underground.
   C.   Any installation under this section to be performed by a servicing
utility shall be exempt from requiring performance guaranties.
   D.   Public utility uses, such as water towers, pumping stations, electric
substations, radio towers, transmission lines and switching stations which must
be provided above ground, may be permitted as a conditional use, all zones
specified, provided that the use and/or structures shall adhere to the minimum
standards of the particular zone and the following:
      (1)   A statement is submitted setting forth the reasons that the
proposed installation must be provided above ground in a specific location, and
why it is necessary and convenient for the efficiency of the public utility
system or for the satisfactory and convenient provision of service by the
utility to the neighborhood or area in which the particular use is to be
located.
      (2)   The design of any building in connection with such facility
conforms to the general character of the area and will not adversely affect the
safe and comfortable enjoyment of property rights of the zone in which it is
located.
      (3)   Adequate and attractive fences and other safety devices will be
provided.
      (4)   Sufficient landscaping, including shrubs, trees and lawn in
accordance with §
175-125 of this chapter, are provided for screening and will be periodically
maintained. This requirement shall not apply to water towers.
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989]
      (5)   Water supply and distribution. The water distribution system shall
be approved by and designed in accordance with the requirements and
specifications as set forth by the Board of Water Commissioners of the Town of
Hammonton.
      (6)   Sewerage facilities and system. Eight-inch vitrified clay, asbestos
cement or an equivalent approved pipe shall be used for all sanitary sewer
pipe, unless otherwise directed. All joints shall be an O-ring type gasket to
meet the specification of 100 gallons per inch of diameter per mile of pipe.
The type of system, main size, specifications, etc., shall be reviewed by the
Town Engineer and approved by the Mayor and Town Council.
   E.   All electric transmission lines shall be located on existing towers or
underground to the maximum extent practical.
§ 175-123. Open space and recreation.
[Amended 8-28-2006 by Ord. No. 16-2006]
   A.   Purpose. It is the purpose and intent of this section that all
subdivisions of land and other forms of development that include residential
uses within the Town of Hammonton preserve a portion of the land area as
hereafter specified for open space and recreational uses. It is hereby declared
it is the intent and purpose of this section that open space and recreation,
which may include both active and passive facilities, are of equal importance;
and both serve to advance and promote the public health, safety, morals and
general welfare.
   B.   Exemption. The following zoning districts and subdivisions are hereby
exempt from the provisions of this section:
      (1)   Subdivisions in PA, FA, AP, AP/CLI and M-1 Zoning Districts that do
not include residential uses.
      (2)   Subdivisions in the DT-1, DT-2, DT-3, DT-4, GW-1, GW-2 and GW-
3 Zoning Districts that do not include residential uses.
[Amended 6-17-2019 by Ord. No. 14-2019]
   C.   Contributions in lieu of active recreation for subdivisions and other
residential development.
      (1)   Applicants for minor subdivisions creating one dwelling unit, in
addition to the remaining lot, shall make a contribution in lieu of active
recreation facilities in the amount of $2,500 per lot prior to the signing of
the deeds or final plat by any Planning Board representative.
      (2)   Applicants for subdivisions of land and/or other residential
development that create an aggregate of two or more lots and/or dwelling units
shall be required by pay $5,000 per lot or unit prior to the signing of the
deeds or final plat by any Planning Board representative.
§ 175-124. Service stations and car washes.
   A.   Service stations.
      (1)   The minimum lot size for service stations shall be 20,000 square
feet, and the minimum frontage shall be 150 feet.
      (2)   No service station shall be located within 500 feet of any
firehouse, school, playground, church, hospital, public building or
institution.
      (3)   All appliances, pits, storage areas and trash facilities, other
than gasoline filling pumps or air pumps, shall be within a building. Gasoline
filling pumps and air pumps shall be permitted within the required front yard
space of service stations, but shall not be closer than 20 feet to any future
street line. All lubrication, repair or similar activities shall be performed
in a fully enclosed building, and no dismantled parts shall be displayed
outside of any enclosed building.
      (4)   Service stations shall comply with Chapter 118, Motor Vehicles:
Inoperable,  20 of the Code of the Town of Hammonton with respect to the
storage of junked or inoperable motor vehicles upon their premises.
      (5)   Not more than two items, such as motor vehicles, trailers or
similar equipment, shall be displayed for sale as part of a service station.
      (6)   No parking shall be permitted on unpaved areas.
      (7)   Auto service stations shall be permitted the following signs:
         (a)   One freestanding sign advertising the name of the station or
garage and the principal products sold on the premises, including any special
company or brand name, insignia or emblem, provided that each such sign shall
not exceed 35 feet in the area on a side and shall be set back 20 feet from
street lines and 50 feet from side lot lines, and provided further that the
sign shall be not less than 10 nor more than 20 feet above ground.
         (b)   One temporary sign located inside the property line and
specifically advertising special seasonal servicing of automobiles, provided
that said sign does not exceed seven square feet in area.
         (c)   Directional signs or lettering displayed over individual
entrance doors or bays and consisting only of the words "washing,"
"lubrication," "repairs," "mechanic on duty" or other words closely similar in
import, provided that there shall not be more than one such sign over each
entrance or bay.
         (d)   Customary lettering or other insignia which are a structural
part of a gasoline pump, consisting only of the brand name of a gasoline sold,
lead-warning sign, a price indicator and any other sign required by law.
   B.   Car washes.
      (1)   All activities must be conducted within a totally enclosed
building.
      (2)   Drainage from inside the building(s) shall feed into the municipal
sanitary sewer system or dry well as approved by the Town Engineer, but in no
case shall drainage be discharged into the municipal storm sewer or any natural
drainage way or swale. Nothing contained herein shall be construed to limit the
town's power of review and approval of connections to the municipal sanitary
sewer system. A discharge of any type must adhere to the requirements of NJPDES
regulations and §
175-137 of this chapter.
      (3)   All of the area, yard, building coverage and height requirements of
the respective zone and other applicable requirements of this chapter must be
met.
 
Notes
20 20.   Editor's Note: Former Ch. 118, Motor Vehicles: Inoperable, was repealed 7-
   23-2001 by Ord. No. 26-2001.
§ 175-125. Shade trees.
   A.   In areas where there is no natural shade, shade trees will be set along
the lot frontage a minimum of 10 feet inside the property line. The type and
suggested spacing are as follows: 
[Amended 6-17-2019 by Ord. No. 14-2019] 
      (1)   Pine and willow oaks (Green spire linden): 50 feet apart in DT-1,
DT-2, DT- 3, DT-4, GW-1, R-1 and R-2 Zoning Districts.
      (2)   Sugar maple: 30 feet apart in DT-1, DT-2, DT-3, DT-4, GW-1, R-1 and
R-2 Zoning Districts.
      (3)   Callery pear: 25 feet apart in DT-1, DT-2, DT-3, DT-4, GW-1, R-
1 and R-2 Zoning Districts.
   B.   The age, height, caliper and layout shall be as specified by the
Planning Board.
   C.   All trees planted in accordance with the provisions of this chapter
shall be nursery grown of substantially uniform size and shape and shall have
straight trunks. Ornamental trees need not have straight trunks, but must
conform in all other respects to the provisions for trees and tree planting
outlined in this chapter. Native vegetation shall be utilized for landscaping,
including but not limited to those species listed in N.J.A.C. 7:50-0.23(a)1.iii
of the New Jersey Pinelands Comprehensive Management Plan.
   D.   Stripping trees from a lot or filling around trees on a lot shall not
be permitted unless it can be shown that grading or construction requirements
necessitate removal of trees, in which case these lots shall be replanted with
trees to reestablish the tone of the area and to conform to adjacent lots.
Special attention shall be directed toward the preservation of major trees by
professional means. Also see §
175-136, Vegetation, of this article.
§ 175-126. Sidewalks. [Amended 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   A.   Concrete sidewalks shall have a compressive strength of 2,500 pounds
per square inch after 28 days and shall be Class C concrete in accordance with
New Jersey State Highway Specifications. Sidewalks shall not be less than four
feet in width, nor less than four inches in thickness, except as driveways and
aprons, which shall be not less than six inches in thickness. Sidewalks in
Downtown Districts and Gateway Districts (see §
175-154.1 through §
175-154.7) shall not be less than five feet in width, not including planting
strips. A preformed bituminous expansion joint filter, ½ inch thick, shall be a
float finish with the edges finished with a suitable finishing tool. The
engineer shall reject any concrete surface which has been defaced, marred or
improperly finished.
   B.   Sidewalks in Downtown Districts DT-4 (see §
175-154.4 through §
175-154.7) shall be continuous, not including joints and brick pavers, from the
build-to line to the curb.
   C.   Sidewalk construction shall comply with the latest standards of the
American Disabilities Act (ADA) throughout the town. Within the downtown, and
adjacent districts thereto, a specific theme for sidewalk construction which
includes a brick ribbon border shall apply.
§ 175-127. Sight triangles.
   A.   On a lot in any district, sight triangles shall be required in addition
to the right-of-way, in which no grading, planting or structure shall be
erected or maintained so as to interfere with vision between a height of two
feet and 10 feet as measured from the center-line grade of an intersecting
street or driveway. The "sight triangle" is defined as that area inside or
outside the right-of-way which is bounded by the AASHTO defined sight lines.
All sight triangles are subject to AASHTO standards.
[Amended 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   B.   Setback requirements. The setback requirements for sight triangles
shall be measured from the point of intersection of the center lines, in
accordance with the following schedule:
      (1)   Arterial streets: 300 feet.
      (2)   Major streets: 250 feet.
      (3)   Collector streets: 200 feet.
      (4)   Secondary streets: 200 feet.
      (5)   Minor streets: 90 feet.
      (6)   Marginal streets: 90 feet.
§ 175-128. (Reserved) 20.1
20.1   Editor's Note: Former §
175-128, Signs, as amended, was superseded by Ord. No. 23-2011, adopted 11-28-
2011. See now §
175-161, Signs.
§ 175-129. Soil erosion and sediment control.
   A soil erosion and sediment control plan for any proposed development must
be submitted to the Cape-Atlantic Soil Conservation District for its review and
comments. A copy of the approved plan must also be filed with the Mayor and
Town Council and the Town Engineer for review and comment.
§ 175-130. Soil removal and redistribution.
   A.   The excavation and grading for completion of a development shall be
done in accordance with the soil conservation district approved plan which
contains soil erosion and sediment control provisions. Excavation of soil other
than required for the construction of approved structures and supporting
facilities, such as but not limited to streets, driveways and parking areas,
except when resource extraction is authorized under the provisions of Article
VIII and §
175-105 of this chapter, shall be prohibited. Regrading of property so as to
redistribute topsoil throughout the site from areas excavated for such approved
structures and supporting facilities shall be permitted, but shall be done to
minimize or eliminate the erosion of soil. These areas shall be stabilized by
seeding and planting.
   B.   No topsoil shall be removed from the site or used as spoil. Topsoil
moved during the course of construction shall be redistributed so as to provide
at least five inches of cover to all areas of subdivision and shall be
stabilized by seeding or planting in accordance with §
175-136.
§ 175-131. Storage of recreational vehicles and boats.
   The outdoor storage of an unoccupied recreational vehicle, motor home,
travel trailer, camper or small boat shall be permitted on single-family
properties, provided that:
   A.   Such storage shall not be located in any required front yard.
   B.   The travel trailer, camper or small boat shall not exceed 35 feet in
length and eight feet in width.
   C.   Only one such travel trailer, camper or small boat shall be permitted
to be stored outdoors at any single-family residence.
   D.   Recreational vehicles and motor homes exceeding 35 feet in length may
be stored only within the required building setback lines.
   E.   Any such vehicles stored in accordance with this section shall not be
occupied and shall not be provided with utility connections other than for the
maintenance of such vehicles.
   F.   No travel trailer, camper or boat stored in conformance with this
section shall remain in such storage for longer than 12 consecutive months.
§ 175-132. Storage of commercial vehicles.
   Automobiles, station wagons, small pickups or panel trucks less than one
ton, jeep vehicles, travelalls and similar types of vehicles used for
commercial purposes are permitted in all zones. Trucks and other commercial
vehicles not mentioned above shall not be parked or stored overnight in any
residential zone, except for vehicles engaged in construction parked or stored
on an active construction site.
§ 175-133. (Reserved)
§ 175-134. Streets.
   A.   Reserve strips denying or controlling access thereto from abutting
lands are not permitted, except where control or ownership of such strips is
vested in the Town of Hammonton for future street or road purposes or where
reverse frontage is provided and tree planting, noise abatement or other buffer
zones are established and such lots or lands do not require direct access.
   B.   Minor streets and alleys shall be so designated as to discourage
through traffic.
[Amended 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   C.   Subdivisions abutting arterial streets shall provide either a marginal
access service road, reverse frontage with a planted buffer strip or an
additional lane for acceleration and deceleration along the entire frontage of
the subdivision to prevent direct-turning movements onto or from arterial
streets, as determined by the Board to be appropriate.
   D.   Subdivisions that adjoin or include existing streets that do not
conform to widths shown on the Master Plan or as required by this chapter shall
dedicate additional width along either one or both sides of said street. If the
subdivision is along one side only, ½ of the required extra width shall be
dedicated.
   E.   Dead-end streets (culs-de-sac) shall not exceed 600 feet in length and
shall provide a turnaround at the end with a radius of not less than 50 feet at
the curbline and tangent whenever possible to the right side of the street. If
a dead-end street is of a temporary nature, a turnaround shall be provided with
a fifty-foot radius tangent to the right side of the street, and provisions
shall be made for future extension of the street and reversion of the excess
right-of-way to the adjoining properties.
   F.   All changes in grade shall be connected by vertical curves of
sufficient radius to provide a smooth transition and proper sight distance.
   G.   A tangent at least 100 feet long shall be introduced between reverse
curves on arterial and collector streets, as stipulated in the design
requirements of the New Jersey State Highway Department.
   H.   Horizontal curves at all ninety-degree street bends shall have a
minimum radius of 100 feet along the inside curve line.
   I.   Street intersections.
      (1)   Angles at intersections, streets or roads connecting with any road
in the town shall be at right angles in the case of arterials and collectors.
All other streets shall be at right angles wherever possible, but not less than
60º measured at the center line of the street or road. The block corner at
intersections shall be rounded at the curbline with a curve having a radius of
not less than 20 feet. Access road connections shall be at the safest possible
angle as determined by the Town Engineer.
      (2)   Spacing. Two new streets connecting with existing town streets
shall be required for a subdivision or development where frontages in excess of
1,200 feet are present. Streets shall connect with the same side of a town
street at intervals of 600 feet between center lines, unless waived to increase
safety by the specific recommendation of the Town Engineer. In determining the
spacing of streets, consideration shall be given to the intersections on all
sides of the development. If possible, streets which connect with the existing
road system from opposite sides of a town road shall not be offset. If the
roads must be offset, they shall be separated by at least 150 feet between
their center lines.
      (3)   Grading. A maximum road grade of 2% shall be used to ensure safe
stopping under icy conditions on any new streets connecting with existing and
proposed streets at their approaches to the intersection. Grades shall be
designed to direct surface drainage away from the existing streets, unless
intercepting underground drainage facilities are provided to prevent flow of
water over the street surface.
   J.   Construction design standards.
      (1)   Hot mixed asphalt constructed in two courses, as follows, and in
accordance with the current New Jersey State Highway Department Specifications
for such construction. The first or base course shall be a hot mixed asphalt
base course having a minimum compacted thickness of two and a half inches. The
second or finish course shall be hot mixed asphalt surface course having a
minimum compacted thickness of two inches. All streets shall be curbed on both
sides. Streets having a grade of more than 5% or less than 0.5%, but in no case
less than 0.4%, shall be guttered on both sides. The minimum requirement for
the Dense Grated Aggregate ("DGA") subbase course of any street shall be six
inches thick and conform to the requirements specified in the current New
Jersey State Highway Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction.
      (2)   Where subbase conditions of proposed streets are wet, springy or of
such a nature that surfacing would be inadvisable without first treating the
subbase, the treatment of the subbase shall be made in the following manner.
The street shall be excavated to a depth that shall be a minimum of 12 inches
below the proposed finished subbase grade. Where required by the Town Engineer,
a system of porous concrete pipe subsurface drains shall be constructed beneath
the surface of the road and connected to a suitable drain. After this subbase
material has been properly placed and compacted, the street surfacing material
as described heretofore shall be spread thereon. All streets shall be provided
with catch basins and pipes where same may be necessary for proper surface
drainage. (The requirements of this section shall not be satisfied by the
construction of dry wells.)
      (3)   Prior to the construction of the final paving, the developer shall
have installed all underground utility mains and services such as water,
sanitary and storm sewer pipe, telephone, electric and gas. The services
mentioned shall consist of the installation of connections and laterals from
the main to a point on the property side of the curb.
[Amended 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   K.   Street continuation.
      (1)   All streets or roads which are designed to become part of the
street or road system of the Town of Hammonton, as shown on the preliminary and
final plans, shall be coterminous with adjoining links to said system. The
street pattern shall provide for connections to surrounding property to
interlink future residential streets.
      (2)   Dead-end streets shall be avoided wherever possible. If their use
is unavoidable, all such street and roads serving several otherwise isolated
lots, where necessary in the opinion of the Town Engineer and the Planning
Board, shall have circular turning spaces at the end with a minimum radius of
50 feet at the curbline; and, if sidewalks need to be provided for, the overall
minimum radius of the right-of-way shall be 60 feet. Where future street
extensions result in a dead-end street, the road surface may be paved the full
width of the right-of-way for temporary turning movements, if required by the
Town Engineer.
   L.   In all developments, the minimum street right-of-way shall be measured
from lot line to lot line and shall be in accordance with the following
schedule, but in no case shall a new street that is a continuation of an
existing street be continued at a width less than the existing street, although
a greater width may be required in accordance with the following schedule.
Where any arterial or collector street intersects another arterial or collector
street, the right-of-way and cartway requirements shall be increased by 10 feet
on the right side of the street(s) approaching the intersection for a distance
of 300 feet from the intersection of the center lines.
 
               Right-of-Way  Traffic Lanes       Shoulder
Type of Street (feet)        Number Width (feet) Widths Within  Width Between
                                                 Gutters (feet) Gutters (feet)
Court          50            2      12           --             24
Lane           50            2      12           --             24
Sub collector  60            2      15           --             30
Collector      66            4      11           6              56
Arterial       80            4      12           8              64
 
   M.   In case of residential development, Residential Site Improvement
Standards (RSIS) for street dimensions shall apply.
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
§ 175-135. Swimming pools.
   A.   No private residential swimming pool shall be constructed or installed
on any lot unless the lot contains a residence building. Pools shall be located
in rear yard areas only and shall meet the setback distances for accessory
buildings as specified in Article XIII for each particular zoning district,
except that in no case may a swimming pool be located closer than 15 feet to
any lot line.
   B.   A swimming pool shall occupy no more than 75% of the yard area in which
it is located.
   C.   All private residential swimming pools shall be constructed in
accordance with the provisions of Chapter 251, Swimming Pools, of the Code of
the Town of Hammonton.
§ 175-136. Vegetation.
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989; 7-28-1997 by Ord. No. 10-1997]
   A.   No development shall be carried out by any person unless it is designed
to avoid irreversible adverse impacts on the survival of any local populations
of the threatened or endangered plants of the Pinelands cited in N.J.A.C. 7:50-
6.27, and as may be from time to time amended, of the Comprehensive Management
Plan.
   B.   All clearing and soil disturbance activities shall be limited to that
which is necessary to accommodate an activity, use or structure which is
permitted by this chapter.
   C.   Where practical, all clearing and soil disturbance activities
associated with an activity, use or structure, other than agriculture, forestry
and resource extraction, shall:
      (1)   Avoid wooded areas, including New Jersey's Record Trees as
published by the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection in 1991 and
periodically updated; and
      (2)   Revegetate or landscape areas temporarily cleared or disturbed
during development activities.
   D.   All applications for major development shall contain a landscaping or
revegetation plan which incorporates the elements set forth in Subsection E
below.
   E.   In order to conserve water, conserve natural features and reduce
pollution from the use of fertilizers, pesticides and other soil supplements,
all landscaping or revegetation plans prepared pursuant to Subsection D above
or required pursuant to §§
175-69B(3) and
175-71C(3) shall incorporate the following elements:
      (1)   The limits of clearing shall be identified.
      (2)   Existing vegetation, including New Jersey's Record Trees as
published by the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection in 1991 and
periodically updated, shall be incorporated into the landscape design where
practical.
      (3)   Permanent lawn or turf areas shall be limited to those specifically
intended for active human use such as play fields, golf courses and lawns
associated with a residence or other principal nonresidential use. Existing
wooded areas shall not be cleared and converted to lawns except when directly
associated with and adjacent to a proposed structure.
      (4)   Shrubs and trees authorized by N.J.A.C. 7:50-6.25 shall be used for
revegetation or landscaping purposes. Other shrubs and trees may be used in the
following circumstances:
         (a)   When the parcel to be developed or its environs contain a
predominance of shrubs and tree species not authorized by N.J.A.C. 7:50-6.25;
         (b)   For limited ornamental purposes around buildings and other
structures; or
         (c)   When limited use of other shrubs or tree species is required for
proper screening or buffering.
§ 175-137. Water quality.
   A.   All development permitted under this chapter shall be designed and
carried out so that the quality of surface and groundwater will be protected
and maintained. Agricultural use shall not be considered development for
purposes of this section.
   B.   Except as specifically authorized in this section, no development which
degrades surface or ground water quality or which establishes new point sources
of pollution shall be permitted.
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989]
   C.   No development shall be permitted which does not meet the minimum water
quality standards of the State of New Jersey or the United States.
   D.   The following point and nonpoint sources may be developed and operated
in the town:
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989; 6-12-1989 by Ord. No. 19-1989]
      (1)   Development of new or the expansion of existing commercial,
industrial and wastewater treatment facilities, or the development of new or
the extension of existing nonpoint sources, except those specifically regulated
in Subsections D(2) through (6) below, provided that:
[Amended 7-28-1997 by Ord. No. 10-1997]
         (a)   There will be no direct discharge into any surface water body;
         (b)   All discharges from the facility or use are of a quality and
quantity such that groundwater exiting from the parcel of land or entering a
surface body of water will not exceed two parts per million nitrate/nitrogen;
         (c)   All public wastewater treatment facilities are designed to
accept and treat septage; and
         (d)   All storage facilities, including ponds or lagoons, are lined to
prevent leakage into groundwater.
      (2)   Development of new wastewater treatment or collection facilities
which are designed to improve the level of nitrate/nitrogen attenuation of more
than one existing on-site wastewater treatment system where a public health
problem has been identified may be exempted from the standards of Subsection D
(1)(b) above, provided that
         (a)   There will be no direct discharge into any surface water body;
         (b)   The facility is designed only to accommodate wastewater from
existing residential, commercial and industrial development;
         (c)   Adherence to Subsection D(1)(b) above cannot be achieved due to
limiting site conditions or that the costs to comply with the standard will
result in excessive user fees; and
[Amended 7-28-1997 by Ord. No. 10-1997]
         (d)   The design level of nitrate/nitrogen attenuation is the maximum
possible within the cost limitations imposed by such user fee guidelines but in
no case shall groundwater exiting from the parcel or entering a surface body of
water exceed five parts per million nitrate/nitrogen.
[Amended 7-28-1997 by Ord. No. 10-1997]
      (3)   Improvements to existing commercial, industrial, and wastewater
treatment facilities which discharge directly into surface waters, provided
that:
         (a)   There is no practical alternative available that would adhere to
the standards of Subsection D(1)(a) above;
[Amended 7-28-1997 by Ord. No. 10-1997]
         (b)   There is no increase in the existing approved capacity of the
facility; and
         (c)   All discharges from the facility into surface waters are such
that the nitrate/nitrogen levels of the surface waters at the discharge point
do not exceed two parts per million. In the event that nitrate/nitrogen levels
in the surface waters immediately upstream of the discharge point exceed two
parts per million, the discharge shall not exceed two parts per million
nitrate/nitrogen.
      (4)   Individual on-site septic wastewater treatment systems which are
not intended to reduce the level of nitrate/nitrogen in the wastewater,
provided that:
[Amended 7-28-1997 by Ord. No. 10-1997]
         (a)   The proposed development to be served by the system is other
wise permitted pursuant to this chapter;
         (b)   The design of the system and its discharge point, and the size
of the entire contiguous parcel on which the system or systems is located, will
ensure that groundwater exiting from the entire contiguous parcel or entering a
surface body of water will not exceed two parts per million nitrate/nitrogen,
calculated pursuant to the Pinelands dilution model dated December 1993, as
amended, subject to the provisions of Subsection D(4)(c) below. The entire
contiguous parcel may include any contiguous lands to be dedicated as open
space as part of the proposed development but may not include previously
dedicated road rights-of-way or any contiguous lands that have been deed
restricted pursuant to §
175-145E(10) or
175-145J;
         (c)   Only contiguous land located within the same zoning district and
Pinelands management area as the proposed system or systems may be utilized for
septic dilution purposes, except for the development of an individual single-
family dwelling on a lot existing as of January 14, 1981, or nonresidential
development on a lot of five acres or less existing as of January 14, 1981;
[Amended 3-25-2002 by Ord. No. 12-2002]
         (d)   The depth to seasonal high-water table is at least five feet;
         (e)   Any potable water well will be drilled and cased to a depth of
at least 100 feet, unless the well penetrates an impermeable clay aquiclude, in
which case the well shall be cased to at least 50 feet;
         (f)   The system will be maintained and inspected in accordance with
the requirements of N.J.A.C. 7:50-6.85(a);
         (g)   The technology has been approved for use by the New Jersey
Department of Environmental Protection; and
         (h)   Flow values for nonresidential development shall be determined
based on the values contained in N.J.A.C. 7:9A-7.4, as amended, except that
number of employees may not be utilized in calculating flow values for office
uses. In the event that N.J.A.C. 7:9A-7.4 does not provide flow values for a
specific use, but a flow value is assigned for that use in 7:14A-23.3(a), the
flow value specified in N.J.A.C. 7:14A-23.3(a) shall be used in calculating
flow.
      (5)   Individual on-site septic waste water treatment systems which are
intended to reduce the level of nitrate/nitrogen in the wastewater, provided
that:
[Amended 7-28-1997 by Ord. No. 10-1997]
         (a)   The standards set forth in Subsection D(4)(a) and (c) through
(h) above are met;
         (b)   If the proposed development is nonresidential, it is located:
[Amended 3-15-2001 by Ord. No. 14-2001; 11-19-2018 by Ord. No. 42-2018]
            [1]   In a Pinelands Town management area; or
            [2]   In a Pinelands Forest Area or Agricultural Production Area,
provided that the standards of N.J.A.C. 7:50-6.84(a)5iii(2) are met.
         (c)   The design of the system and its discharge point, and the size
of the entire contiguous parcel on which the system or systems is located, will
ensure that groundwater exiting from the entire contiguous parcel or entering a
surface body of water will not exceed two parts per million nitrate/nitrogen,
calculated pursuant to the Pinelands dilution model dated December 1993, as
amended, subject to the provisions of Subsection D(4)(c) above and the
assumptions and requirements set forth in N.J.A.C. 7:50-6.84(a)5iv. The entire
contiguous parcel may include any contiguous lands to be dedicated as open
space as part of the proposed development but may not include previously
dedicated road rights-of-way or any contiguous lands that have been deed
restricted pursuant to §
175-144E(10) or
175-144J.
      (6)   Surface water runoff, provided that the requirements of Article
XVII (Stormwater Management) of this Chapter are met.
[Added 7-28-1997 by Ord. No. 10-1997; amended 8-28-2023 by Ord. No. 14-2023]
      (7)   Alternate design pilot program treatment systems, provided that:
[Added 5-27-2003 by Ord. No. 7-2003; amended 11-19-2018 by Ord. No. 42-2018]
         (a)   The proposed development to be served by the system is
residential and is otherwise permitted pursuant to the provisions of this
subsection;
         (b)   The design of the system and its discharge point and the size of
the entire contiguous parcel on which the system or systems is located will
ensure that groundwater exiting from the entire contiguous parcel or entering a
surface body of water will not exceed two parts per million nitrate/nitrogen,
calculated pursuant to the Pinelands dilution model dated December, 1993, as
amended, subject to the provisions of Subsection D(7)(c) below. The entire
contiguous parcel may include any contiguous lands to be dedicated as open
space as part of the proposed development but may not include previously
dedicated road rights-of-way or any contiguous lands that have been deed
restricted pursuant to §§
175-145E(10) or
175-145J;
         (c)   Only contiguous lands located within the same zoning district
and Pinelands management area as the proposed system or systems may be utilized
for septic dilution proposes, except for the development of an individual
single-family dwelling on a lot existing as of January 14, 1981, nonresidential
development on a lot of five acres or less existing as of January 14, 1981, or
cluster development as permitted by N.J.A.C. 7:50-5.19;
         (d)   The depth to seasonal high water table is at last five feet;
         (e)   Any potable water well will be drilled and cased to a depth of
at least 100 feet, unless the well penetrates an impermeable clay aquiclude, in
which came the well shall be cased to at least 50 feet;
         (f)   No more then 10 alternate design pilot program treatment systems
utilizing the same technology shall be installed in the development of any
parcel if those systems are each serving one single-family dwelling;
         (g)   Each system shall be equipped with automatic dialing capability
to the manufacturer or its agent in the event of a mechanical malfunction;
         (h)   Each system shall be designed and constructed so that samples of
effluent leaving the alternate design pilot program septic system can be
readily taken to confirm the performance of the technology;
         (i)   The manufacturer or its agent shall provide to each owner an
operation and maintenance manual approved pursuant to N.J.A.C. 7:50-10.22
(a)2iv;
         (j)   Each system shall be covered by a five-year warranty and a
minimum five-year maintenance contract consistent with those approved pursuant
to N.J.A.C. 7:50-10.22(a)2v that cannot be cancelled and is renewable and which
includes a provision requiring that the manufacturer or it agent inspect the
system at least once a year and undertake any maintenance or repairs determined
to be necessary during any such inspection or as a result of observations made
at any other time; and
         (k)   The property owner shall record with the deed to the property a
notice consistent with that approved pursuant to N.J.A.C. 7:50-10.22(a)2vi that
identifies the technology, acknowledges the owner's responsibility to operate
and maintain it in accordance with the manual requited in Subsection D(7)(i)
above, and grants access, with reasonable notice, to the local Board of Health,
the Commission and its agents for inspection and monitoring purposes. The
recorded deed shall run with the property and shall ensure that the maintenance
requirements are binding on any owner of the property during the life of the
system and that the monitoring requirements are binding on any owner of the
property during the time period the monitoring requirements apply pursuant to
the pilot program or any subsequent regulations adopted by the Commission that
apply to said system;
   E.   Water-saving devices such as water-saving toilets, showers and faucets
shall be installed in all new developments.
   F.    21 Commercial petroleum tanks within the Pinelands Area shall be
inspected and maintained in accordance with N.J.A.C. 7:50-6.85(c).
   G.   The storage and use of chemicals and materials within the Pinelands
Area shall comply with the requirements of N.J.A.C. 7:50-6.87.
   H.   Interbasin transfer of water between watersheds shall be avoided in
accordance with N.J.A.C. 7:50-6.86. Water shall not be exported from the
Pinelands except as otherwise provided in N.J.S.A. 58:1A-7.1.
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989]
 
Notes
   21.   Editor's Note: Former Subsection F, regarding storage or discharge of
21 hazardous waste, as amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989, was repealed 7-28-
   1997 by Ord. No. 10-1997.
§ 175-138. Waste management.
[Amended 7-28-1997 by Ord. No. 10-1997]
   No hazardous or toxic substances, including hazardous wastes, shall be
stored, transferred, processed, discharged, disposed or otherwise used in the
town. The land application of waste or waste derived materials is prohibited in
the Pinelands Area, except as expressly authorized in N.J.A.C. 7:50-6.79. Waste
management facilities shall only be permitted in the town in accordance with
the standards set forth in N.J.A.C. 7:50-6.
§ 175-139. Water supply.
   A.   The developer shall arrange for the construction of water mains in such
a manner as to make adequate water service available to each lot, dwelling unit
or use within the development. The entire system shall be designed in
accordance with the requirements and standards of the agency having approval
authority and shall be subject to their approval. The system shall also be
designed with adequate capacity and sustained pressure for present and probable
future development.
   B.   Where water distribution systems are installed, outside streets,
easements or rights-of-way shall be required in accordance with §
175-96, Easements, of this article.
§ 175-140. Wetlands.
   Wetlands are those areas where the substrate is inundated or saturated by
surface or ground water at a frequency, magnitude and duration sufficient to
support, and under normal circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation
adapted for life in saturated soil conditions known as "hydrophytes." Wetlands
include lands with poorly drained or very poorly drained soils as designated by
the National Cooperative Soils Survey of the Soil Conservation Service of the
United States Department of Agriculture. The Town of Hammonton does not have
any area of coastal wetlands classification, but does possess inland wetlands,
including submerged lands as defined in N.J.A.C. 7:50-6.3 of the New Jersey
Comprehensive Management Plan.
   A.   Regulated activities.
      (1)   Development shall be prohibited in all wetlands and wetlands
transition areas within the town except as otherwise specified in this section.
[Amended 6-28-1993 by Ord. No. 13-1993]
      (2)   Horticulture of native pinelands species and berry agriculture
shall be permitted in all wetlands subject to the requirements of §
175-88 of this chapter.
      (3)   Beekeeping shall be permitted in all wetlands.
      (4)   Forestry shall be permitted in all wetlands subject to the
requirements of §
175-104 of this chapter.
      (5)    Fish and wildlife activities and wetlands management in accordance
with N.J.A.C. 7:50-6.10.
[Amended 4-22-2013 by Ord. No. 005-2013]
      (6)   Low intensity recreational uses which do not involve use of a
structure, including hunting, fishing, trapping, hiking, boating and swimming,
and other low intensity recreational uses, provided that any development
associated with those other uses does not result in a significant adverse
impact on the wetland as set forth in Subsection B of this section.
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989]
      (7)   Docks, piers, moorings and boat launches for the use of a landowner
shall be permitted in all wetlands, provided that the use will not result in a
significant adverse impact as set forth in Subsection B of this section.
      (8)   Commercial or public docks, piers, moorings and boat launches shall
be permitted, provided that there is a demonstrated need for the facility that
cannot be met by existing facilities; the development conforms to all state and
federal regulations; and the development will not result in a significant
adverse impact as set forth in Subsection B of this section.
      (9)   Bridges, roads, trails and utility transmission and distribution
facilities and other similar linear facilities shall be permitted in wetlands,
provided that:
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989; 6-28-1993 by Ord. No. 13-1993]
         (a)   There is no feasible alternative route for the facility that
does not involve development in a wetland or, if none, that another feasible
route which results in less significant adverse impacts on wetlands does not
exist.
         (b)   The need for the proposed linear improvement cannot be met by
existing facilities or modification thereof.
         (c)   The use represents a need which overrides the importance of
protecting the wetlands.
         (d)   Development of the facility will include all practical measures
to mitigate the adverse impact on the wetland.
         (e)   The resources of the Pinelands will not be substantially
impaired as a result of the facility and its development as determined
exclusively based on the existence of special and unusual circumstances.
      (10)   No development, except for those uses which are specifically
authorized in this section, shall be carried out within 300 feet of any
wetlands unless the applicant has demonstrated that the proposed development
will not result in a significant adverse impact on the wetlands as set forth
below in Subsection B.
   B.   For the purpose of determining a significant adverse impact on
wetlands, the following standards shall be used. Determinations under this
section shall consider the cumulative modifications of the wetland due to the
development being proposed and any other existing or potential development
which may affect the wetland. A significant adverse impact shall be deemed to
exist where it is determined that one or more of the following modifications of
a wetland will have an irreversible effect on the ecological integrity of the
wetland and its biotic components, including but not limited to threatened or
endangered species of plants or animals:
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989; 6-12-1989 by Ord. No. 19-1989]
      (1)   An increase in surface water runoff discharging into a wetland.
      (2)   A change in the normal seasonal flow patterns in the wetland.
      (3)   An alteration of the water table in the wetland.
      (4)   An increase in erosion resulting in increased sedimentation in the
wetland.
      (5)   A change in the natural chemistry of the ground- or surface water
in the wetland.
      (6)   A loss of wetland habitat.
      (7)   A reduction in wetland habitat diversity.
      (8)   A change in wetland species composition.
      (9)   A significant disturbance of areas used by indigenous and migratory
wildlife for breeding, nesting or feeding.
§ 175-141. Yard areas.
   A.   No open space provided around any principal building for the purposes
of complying with the front, side, rear or other yard provisions of this
chapter shall be considered as providing the yard provisions for any other
principal building.
   B.   Permitted projections into required yards.
      (1)   Cornices and eaves may project into a required yard not more than
three feet.
      (2)   Chimneys may be erected within a yard, provided that they do not
exceed six square feet in aggregate external cross section and do not obstruct
ventilation.
      (3)   A fire escape or outside stairway may project not more than five
feet into a rear yard.
   C.   Rear yard exceptions.
      (1)   When no part of the first floor of a proposed building in the
Downtown Districts is to be used for living quarters, no rear yard shall be
required. However, if the second floor of such building is used for living
quarters, the second-floor rear wall shall be located at a distance from the
rear lot line equal to the rear yard depth established for the district.
      (2)   In the Downtown Districts, if no part of a proposed building is to
be used as living quarters or if a building is to extend from street to street
or from street or alley, no rear yard shall be required.
      (3)   None of the above shall be construed to mean that parking or other
site requirements do not have to be provided.
[Amended 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   D.   Scenic corridors. Except for those roads which provide for internal
circulation within residentially developed areas, all public paved roads in the
Preservation Area and Forest Area Districts shall be considered scenic
corridors, to which the following standards apply:
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989]
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, no permit shall be
issued for development on a scenic corridor other than for agricultural produce
sales establishments unless the applicant demonstrates that all buildings are
set back at least 200 feet from the center line of the corridor.
      (2)   If compliance with the two-hundred-foot setback is constrained by
environmental or other physical considerations, such as wetlands, or active
agricultural operations, the building shall be set back as close to 200 feet as
practical and the site shall be landscaped in accordance with the provisions of
§§
175-136 and
175-91 of this chapter so as to provide screening from the corridor.
      (3)   If an applicant for development approval demonstrates that existing
development patterns of the corridor are such that buildings are set back less
than 200 feet within 1,000 feet of the site proposed for development, then a
setback shall be set for the proposed development which is consistent with the
established development pattern, provided that the site is landscaped in
accordance with the provisions of §§
175-136 and
175-91 of this chapter so as to provide screening between the building and the
corridor.
[Amended 6-12-1989 by Ord. No. 19-1989]
ARTICLE XIII
Zoning
§ 175-142. Zoning districts designated.
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989; 12-14-1998 by Ord. No. 30-1998]
   For the purpose of this chapter, the Town of Hammonton is divided into the
following zoning districts:
   PA   Preservation Area
   FA   Forest Area
   AP   Agricultural Production
   AP/CLI   Agricultural Production/Compatible Light Industry
   SAP   Special Agricultural Production
[Added 3-15-2001 by Ord. No. 14-2001]
   RR   Rural Residential
   R-1   Residential-1
   R-2   Residential-2
   R-3   Residential-3
   H-B   Highway Business
[Amended 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   M-1   Industrial Park
   M-2   Multi-Use District
[Amended 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   REC   Recreation
   GW-1   Gateway Avenue
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   GW-2    Gateway Boulevard
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   GW-3   Gateway Crossroads
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   DT-1    Near Town
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   DT-2    In Town, Railway
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   DT-3    In Town
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   DT-4    Downtown
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   IDZ   Inclusionary Development Zone
[Added 12-19-2016 by Ord. No. 012-2016]
§ 175-143. Zoning Map.
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989; 12-27-1999 by Ord. No. 35-1999; 11-28-
2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   The boundaries of all zoning districts set forth in this article are shown
on a map entitled "Zoning Map of the Town of Hammonton, Atlantic County, New
Jersey," and dated the same date as the effective date of this chapter or as
may from time to time be amended. Said map and all notations, references and
data shown thereon are hereby incorporated by reference to this chapter and
shall be as much a part of this chapter as if all were fully described herein.
22
 
Notes
22 22.   Editor's Note: The Zoning Map is included in a pocket at the end of this
   volume.
§ 175-144. Zone boundaries.
   A.   Zone boundaries are intended to follow the center lines of streets, lot
lines, hypothetical extensions of lot lines, property lines or other natural
lines, such as center lines of watercourses, ditches, etc., unless such
district or zone boundary is fixed by dimension on the Zoning Map or by
description and shall include lands acquired by accretion or stream diversion
by natural causes. Zone boundaries shall follow the lines that define the rear
of a lot whenever possible, so that zoning is consistent on each facing side of
a street.
[Amended 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   B.   Where a zone boundary fixed by dimension on the Zoning Map
approximately follows and is not more than 20 feet from a lot line, such lot
line shall be construed to be the zone boundary.
   C.   In unsubdivided land and where a zone boundary divides a lot, the
location of such boundary, unless the same is indicated by dimensions shown on
the map, shall be determined by the use of the scale appearing thereon.
   D.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following municipal limits shall
be construed as following municipal limits.
   E.   Where a zone boundary line divides a lot held in single ownership at
the effective date of this chapter, the use regulations applicable to the less
restricted zone district extend over the portion of the lot in the more
restricted district a distance of not more than 50 feet beyond the zone
boundary line.
§ 175-145. General regulations.
   A.   General.
      (1)   No building shall hereafter be used, erected, altered, converted,
enlarged, added to, moved or reduced either wholly or in part, nor shall any
land be designed, used or physically altered for any purpose or in any manner
except in conformity with this chapter. Where a lot is formed from part of a
lot already occupied by a building, such subdivision shall be effected in such
a manner as not to impair any of the requirements of this chapter with respect
to the existing building and all yards and other open space in connection
therewith, and so that all resulting lots have adequate dimensions consistent
with the requirements of the zoning district in which they are located, and so
that all lots have frontage on a street.
      (2)   In all districts, after the effective date of this chapter with the
exception of Subsection B below, any existing building, structure or tract of
land which is not in conformity with the regulations for the district in which
it is located shall be deemed nonconforming and subject to the regulations of §
175-117 of this chapter.
      (3)   Where this chapter is silent as to the allowance of a use in a zone
district, such silence shall be interpreted to mean that the use is not
permitted. A use is not permitted in any zone district of the town unless
specifically included as a use or category of use in this chapter and in the
specific zone district.
   B.   Minimum standards for substandard lots. Notwithstanding the density
limitations or other provisions of this chapter, the owner of a parcel of land
of an acre or more in the town, not including the Preservation Area, shall be
entitled to develop one detached single-family dwelling on the parcel, provided
that:
[Amended 7-28-1997 by Ord. No. 10-1997]
      (1)   The dwelling unit will be the principal residence of the property
owner or a member of the immediate family of the property owner;
      (2)   The parcel has been in the continuous ownership since February 7,
1979, of the person whose principal residence the dwelling unit will be, a
member of that person's immediate family or a partnership or corporation in
which members of that person's immediate family collectively own more than a
majority interest in such partnership or corporation;
      (3)   The parcel was not in common ownership with any contiguous land on
or after February 8, 1979, that contains substantial improvements; and
      (4)   The parcel includes all vacant contiguous lands in common ownership
on or after February 8, 1979.
   C.   Adult bookstores and movie houses; massage parlors. Such uses shall be
conditional uses in the H-B Zone; provided, however, that no such use shall be
located within 750 feet of a property line of any existing similar use, place
of religious worship, school, recreational or health care facility, library,
institutional use, any establishment licensed for the sale or consumption of
alcoholic beverages or any existing or approved residential development
consisting of 10 or more units. All conditional use and major site plan
requirements and procedures shall be followed. Bulk requirements for the H-
B Zone shall apply.
[Amended 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   D.   Community residences and other entities set forth in N.J.S.A. 40:55D-
66.1 and N.J.S.A. 40:55D-66.2.
[Amended 11-18-2002 by Ord. No. 40-2002]
      (1)   Community residences for the developmentally disabled, community
shelters for victims of domestic violence, community residences for the
terminally ill, community residence for persons with head injuries, adult
family-care homes for elderly persons and physically disabled adults and all
other entities which may, in the future, be set forth in N.J.S.A. 40:55D-66.1
and N.J.S.A. 40:55D-66.2, are permitted uses in all residential districts of
the Town. The requirements for said uses shall be the same as for single-family
dwelling units located within such districts.
   E.   Pinelands development credits established.
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989]
      (1)   Except for land which was owned by a public agency on January 14,
1981, land which is thereafter purchased by the state for conservation
purposes, land which is subject to an easement limiting the use of land to
nonresidential uses or land otherwise excluded from entitlement pursuant to
this section, every parcel of land in the PA, AP, AP/CLI and SAP Districts
shall have a use right known as "Pinelands development credits" that can be
used to secure a density bonus for lands located in a regional growth area.
Pinelands development credits may also be allocated to certain properties in
the town by the Pinelands Commission pursuant to N.J.A.C. 7:50-4.61 et seq.
[Amended 6-28-1993 by Ord. No. 13-1993; 3-15-2001 by Ord. No. 14-2001]
      (2)   Pinelands development credits are hereby established in the PA
District at the following ratios:
         (a)   Uplands which are undisturbed but currently or previously
approved for resource extraction pursuant to this chapter: two Pinelands
development credits per 39 acres.
[Amended 7-28-1997 by Ord. No. 10-1997]
         (b)   Uplands which are mined as a result of a resource extraction
permit approved pursuant to this chapter: 0 Pinelands development credits per
39 acres.
         (c)   Other uplands: 1 Pinelands development credit per 39 acres.
         (d)   Wetlands: 0.2 Pinelands development credits per 39 acres.
      (3)   Pinelands development credits are hereby established in the AP, AP/
CLI and SAP Districts at the following ratios:
[Amended 3-15-2001 by Ord. No. 14-2001]
         (a)   Uplands which are undisturbed but approved for resource
extraction pursuant to this chapter: 2 Pinelands development credits per 39
acres.
         (b)   Uplands which are mined as a result of a resource extraction
permit approved pursuant to this chapter: 0 Pinelands development credits per
39 acres.
         (c)   Other uplands and areas of active berry agricultural bogs and
fields: 2 Pinelands development credits per 39 acres.
         (d)   Wetlands in active field agriculture use currently and as of
February 7, 1979: two Pinelands development credits per 39 acres.
[Amended 7-28-1997 by Ord. No. 10-1997]
         (e)   Other wetlands: 0.2 Pinelands development credits per 39 acres.
[Added 6-12-1989 by Ord. No. 19-1989]
      (4)   The allocations established in Subsection E(2) and (3) above shall
be reduced as follows:
[Amended 10-22-1990 by Ord. No. 15-1990]
         (a)   Any property of 10 acres or less which is developed for a
commercial, industrial, resource extraction, intensive recreation,
institutional, campground or landfill use shall not receive Pinelands
development credit entitlement. For such an improved property of more than 10
acres, the area actively used for such use or 10 acres, whichever is greater,
shall not receive Pinelands development credit entitlement.
         (b)   The Pinelands development credit entitlement of a parcel of land
shall be reduced by 0.25 Pinelands development credit entitlement for existing
dwelling units on the property.
         (c)   The Pinelands development credit entitlement for a parcel of
land shall be reduced by 0.25 Pinelands development credit for each reserved
right to build a dwelling unit on the parcel retained by the owner of the
property pursuant to Subsection E(8) below or when a variance for cultural
housing is approved by the town pursuant to Subsection I of this section.
[Amended 6-28-1993 by Ord. No. 13-1993]
         (d)   The Pinelands development credit (PDC) entitlement for a parcel
of land shall also be reduced by 0.25 PDC for each dwelling unit approved
pursuant to N.J.A.C. 7:50-4.61 et seq. when a waiver of strict compliance is
granted by the Pinelands Commission.
[Added 6-28-1993 by Ord. No. 13-1993]
      (5)   The owners of parcels of land which are smaller than 39 acres shall
have a fractional Pinelands development credit at the same ratio established in
Subsection E(2) and (3) above.
      (6)   Notwithstanding the provisions above, the owner of record of 1/10
or greater acres of land in the PA, AP or AP/CLI Districts as of February 7,
1979, shall be entitled to 1/4 Pinelands development credits, provided that the
parcel of land is vacant, was not in common ownership with any contiguous land
on or after February 7, 1979, and has not been sold or transferred except to a
member of the owner's immediate family. The provisions of this section shall
also apply to owners of record of less than 1/10 acres of land in the PA, AP or
AP/CLI Districts, as of February 7, 1979, provided that said owners acquire
vacant, contiguous lands to which Pinelands development credits are allocated
pursuant to Subsection E(2) or (3) above, which lands, when combined with the
acreage of the parcel owned prior to February 7, 1979, total at least 1/10 of
an acre.
[Amended 10-22-1990 by Ord. No. 15-1990; 7-28-1997 by Ord. No. 10-1997]
      (7)   No Pinelands development credit may be conveyed, sold, encumbered
or transferred unless the owner of the land from which the credit has been
obtained has received a Pinelands development credit certificate from the New
Jersey Pinelands Development Credit Bank pursuant to N.J.A.C. 3:42-3 and has
deed restricted the use of the land in perpetuity to those uses set forth in
Subsection E(10) below by a recorded deed restriction which is in favor of a
public agency or not-for-profit incorporated organization and specifically and
expressly enforceable by the Pinelands Commission.
[Amended 7-28-1997 by Ord. No. 10-1997]
      (8)   Notwithstanding the provision of Subsection E(7) above, an owner of
property from which Pinelands development credits are sold may retain a right
for residential development on that property, provided that the recorded deed
restriction expressly provides for the same and that the total allocation of
Pinelands development credits for that property is reduced by 0.25 Pinelands
development credit for each reserved right to build a dwelling unit.
Subdivision of the property shall not be required until such time as the
residential development right is exercised.
[Amended 10-22-1990 by Ord. No. 15-1990]
      (9)   No conveyance, sale or transfer of Pinelands development credits
shall occur until the municipality with jurisdiction over the parcel of land
from which the Pinelands development credits were obtained, the agency or
organization to which the restriction is in favor, and the Pinelands Commission
have been provided with evidence of recordation of a restriction on the deed to
the land from which the development credits were obtained.
      (10)   Such deed restriction shall specify the number of Pinelands
development credits sold and that the property may only be used in perpetuity
for the following uses:
[Amended 11-19-2018 by Ord. No. 42-2018]
         (a)   In the PA District: Berry agriculture; horticulture of native
Pinelands plants; forestry; beekeeping; fish and wildlife management; wetlands
management; agricultural employee housing as an accessory use; and low-
intensity recreational uses in which the use of motorized vehicles is not
permitted except for necessary transportation, access to water bodies is
limited to no more than 15 feet of frontage per 1,000 feet of frontage on the
water body, clearing of vegetation does not exceed 5% of the parcel, and no
more than 1% of the parcel will be covered with impervious surfaces; and
accessory uses.
[Amended 4-22-2013 by Ord. No. 005-2013]
         (b)   In the AP and AP/CLI Districts: Agriculture; forestry;
agricultural employee housing as an accessory use; low-intensity recreational
uses in which the use of motorized vehicles is not permitted except for
necessary transportation, access to water bodies is limited to no more than 15
feet of frontage per 1,000 feet of frontage on the water body, clearing of
vegetation does not exceed 5% of the parcel, and no more than 1% of the parcel
will be covered with impervious surfaces; agricultural commercial
establishments, excluding supermarkets and restaurants and convenience stores,
where the principal goods or products available for sale were produced in the
Pinelands and the sales area does not exceed 5,000 square feet; airports and
heliports accessory to agricultural uses and which are used exclusively for the
storage, fueling, loading and operation of aircraft as part of an ongoing
agricultural operation; and agricultural products processing facilities; and
accessory uses.
[Amended 10-22-1990 by Ord. No. 15-1990; 4-22-2013 by Ord. No. 005-2013]
         (c)   In all other zoning districts: Agriculture; forestry and low
intensity recreational uses.
[Added 6-28-1993 by Ord. No. 13-1993]
         (d)   In the SAP District: Berry agriculture; horticulture of native
Pinelands plants; forestry; beekeeping; fish and wildlife management; wetlands
management; and agricultural employee housing as an accessory use; and
accessory uses.
[Added 3-15-2001 by Ord. No. 14-2001; 4-22-2013 by Ord. No. 005-2013]
      (11)   No development involving the use of Pinelands development credits
shall be approved until the developer has provided the Pinelands Commission and
the town with evidence of his ownership of the requisite Pinelands development
credits; provided, however, that the town may grant preliminary subdivision or
site plan approval conditioned upon such evidence being presented as a
prerequisite to final subdivision or site plan approval. For such a final
subdivision or site plan, the developer shall provide evidence of Pinelands
development credit ownership to secure the same proportion of lots or
residential units as was approved for Pinelands development credit use in the
preliminary approval. In no case shall a building or construction permit be
issued for any development involving the use of PDC's until the developer has
provided the Pinelands Commission and the town with evidence of his ownership
of the requisite PDC's and those PDC's have been redeemed with the town.
Notification of any such preliminary or final approval shall be made to the
Pinelands Commission pursuant to §
175-60D(3) and to the New Jersey Pinelands Development Credit Bank in
accordance with N.J.A.C. 3:42-3. Redemption of Pinelands development credits
shall thereafter be accomplished in accordance with N.J.A.C. 3:42-3.6.
[Amended 6-28-1993 by Ord. No. 13-1993; 7-28-1997 by Ord. No. 10-1997]
      (12)   Pinelands development credits shall be used in the following
manner:
[Added 6-28-1993 by Ord. No. 13-1993]
         (a)   When a variance of density or lot area requirements for a
residential or principal nonresidential use in the RR, R-1, R-2, R-3, H-B, M-1,
REC, M-2, and the GW-2 Gateway Districts is granted by the town, Pinelands
development credits shall be used for all dwelling units or lots in excess of
that permitted without the variance.
[Amended 7-28-1997 by Ord. No. 10-1997; 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
         (b)   When a variance for cultural housing is granted by the town in
accordance with Subsection I of this section.
         (c)   When a waiver of strict compliance is granted by the Pinelands
Commission pursuant to N.J.A.C. 7:50-4.61 et seq.
   F.   Manufactured housing. Such housing in accordance with §
175-10 shall be permitted in the Town of Hammonton to the same extent and under
the same regulations as single-family detached dwelling units.
   G.   Residential dwelling units on 3.2 acre lots may be permitted in the PA,
FA, AP, AP/CLI and SAP Districts, provided that:
[Added 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989; amended 7-28-1997 by Ord. No. 10-1997; 3-
15-2001 by Ord. No. 14-2001]
      (1)   The dwelling unit will be the principal residence of the property
owner or a member of the immediate family of the property owner;
      (2)   The individual whose principal residence the dwelling unit will be
has not developed a dwelling unit under this section within the previous five
years;
      (3)   The parcel of land on which the dwelling is to be located has been
in the continuous ownership since February 7, 1979, of the person whose
principal residence the dwelling unit will be, a member of that person's
immediate family, or a partnership or corporation in which members of that
person's immediate family collectively own more than a majority interest in
such partnership or corporation; and
      (4)   The person whose principal residence the dwelling unit will be has
resided in the Pinelands for at least five years and that person or one or more
members of that person's immediate family has resided in the Pinelands for a
total of at least 20 different years.
   H.   Except as otherwise authorized in this chapter, the extraction or
mining of mineral resources other than sand, gravel, clay and ilmenite is
prohibited.
[Added 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989]
   I.   Additional provisions for cultural housing. Residential dwelling units
on one-acre lots may be permitted in the PA, FA, AP, AP/CLI and SAP Districts,
provided that:
[Added 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989; amended 6-12-1989 by Ord. No. 19-1989; 6-
28-1993 by Ord. No. 13-1993; 3-15-2001 by Ord. No. 14-2001]
      (1)   The applicant satisfies all of the requirements set forth in
Subsection G above.
      (2)   The lot to be developed existed as of February 8, 1979, or was
created a result of an approval granted by the Pinelands Development Review
Board or by the Pinelands Commission pursuant to the Interim Rules and
Regulations prior to January 14, 1981.
      (3)   The applicant qualifies for and receives from the township a
variance from the three-and-two-tenths-acre lot size requirement set forth in
Subsection G above.
      (4)   The applicant purchases and redeems 0.25 Pinelands development
credits.
      (5)   Any Pinelands development credits allocated to the lot to be
developed are reduced pursuant to Subsection E(4) of this section.
   J.   Density transfer program. Residential dwelling units on one-acre lots
existing as of January 14, 1981, shall be permitted in the FA District,
provided that:
[Added 6-28-1993 by Ord. No. 13-1993]
      (1)   The owner of the lot proposed for development acquires sufficient
vacant contiguous or noncontiguous land which, when combined with the acreage
of the lot proposed for development, equals at least 34 acres.
      (2)   All lands acquired pursuant to Subsection J(1) above, which may or
may not be developable, are located within the FA District.
      (3)   All noncontiguous lands acquired pursuant to Subsection J(1) and
(2) above shall be permanently protected through recordation of a deed of
restriction in accordance with the following requirements:
         (a)   The deed of restriction shall permit the parcel to be managed
for:
            [1]   Low intensity recreation, ecological management and forestry,
provided that no more than 5% of the land may be cleared, no more than 1% of
the land may be covered with impervious surfaces and any such uses or
activities are approved and conducted in accordance with the requirements of
this Chapter;
            [2]   Where agricultural use exists on a parcel to be protected,
the following standards shall apply:
               [a]   For those agricultural uses in existence as of April 6,
2009, the deed of restriction may provide for the continuation of agricultural
uses and the expansion of the area of agricultural use by up to 50%;
               [b]   For those agricultural uses established after April 6,
2009, the deed of restriction may provide for the continuation of agricultural
uses, provided the agricultural use has been in existence for a period of at
least five years prior to submission of an application for density transfer;
               [c]   For those agricultural uses established after April 6,
2009 which do not meet the standards of Subsection [2][b] above, the deed of
restriction shall permit the land to be managed only in accordance with
subsection a. above and shall not provide for continuation of any agricultural
use on the parcel; and
               [d]   The deed of restriction to be recorded pursuant to
Subsection [2][a] or [b] above shall authorize agricultural uses and provide
that impervious surface may not exceed that which currently exists or three
percent, whichever is greater, unless a Resource Management System Plan has
been prepared. Before these impervious surface limits may be exceeded, evidence
of Pinelands Commission approval of the Resource Management System Plan shall
be provided. If the deed of restriction is in favor of Atlantic County or the
State Agricultural Development Committee, evidence of their approval shall also
be provided.
         (b)   The deed of restriction shall be in favor of the parcel to be
developed and the Town or another public agency or non-profit conservation
organization. In all cases, such restriction shall be expressly enforceable by
the Pinelands Commission. The deed restriction shall be in a form to be
approved by the Town Solicitor and the Pinelands Commission.
[Amended 4-22-2013 by Ord. No. 005-2013]
      (4)   Tax assessments for the acquired noncontiguous lands are combined
and assigned to the land to be developed.
      (5)   The lot proposed for development otherwise meets the minimum
standards of Article XII of this chapter.
   K.   Special provision for substandard lots in Blocks 1501, 1502 and 1601 in
the Forest Area Zone. Notwithstanding the density limitations of §
175-147B, the owner of a parcel of land of 3.2 acres or more in the Forest Area
Zone shall be entitled to develop one detached single-family dwelling on the
parcel, provided that:
[Added 12-14-1998 by Ord. No. 30-1998]
      (1)   The parcel to be developed was not in common ownership with any
contiguous land on or after November 1, 1998, that contains substantial
improvements;
      (2)   The parcel to be developed includes all vacant contiguous lands in
common ownership on or after November 1, 1998; and
      (3)   The parcel to be developed is located within Block 1501, 1502 or
1601.
   L.   Flag Lots.
[Added 9-27-2010 by Ord. No. 21-2010]
      (1)   Definitions. As used in this Subsection L, the following terms
shall have the meanings indicated:
   FLAG LOT
   A lot not satisfying the conventional minimum lot frontage requirements of
the zone district, generally configured in the shape of a flag, with its road
frontage provided by a strip of land referred to as the "pole" or "flagstaff"
portion of the lot.
   FLAGSTAFF or POLE
   The portion of a flag lot consisting of a strip of land with insufficient
lot frontage which, when setback limitations are applied, contains no building
envelope. The primary purpose of the flagstaff or pole is to provide road
frontage and access for a flag lot.
   FLAG
   The portion of the flag lot at the end of the pole.
      (2)   In a minor subdivision, one lot may be permitted which fails to
meet the minimum lot width requirements for a conventional residential
development in the subject zone, provided that:
         (a)   That portion of the flag lot providing access to the rear of
said lot must be no less than 50 feet in width, no more than 400 feet in length
extending uniformly from the lot frontage line to the rear lot line of the non-
flag-type lot. This area shall be known as the "pole" of the flag.
Notwithstanding the previous sentences, the total area of the pole shall not
exceed 20% of the total lot area. If the access strip is more than 400 feet
long or serves more than one dwelling unit, access to the rear shall be only by
a standard municipal street and a cul-de-sac dedicated as a public street. Any
dedicated municipal street must meet residential site improvement standards
("RSIS"). No structures may be constructed in the pole area nor in the areas of
the pole as extended to the rear of the lot, except for a mailbox and/or trash
enclosure which shall not be located within the sight triangle. (The "pole" of
the flag, must be part of the lot as set forth above and cannot be satisfied
through the obtainment of an easement across any other lot).
         (b)   Only one lot of insufficient width is permitted, and such lot
shall have at least three times the minimum lot area, but in no case shall a
flag lot be less than 1.6 acres in size when such lot has public sewerage
available; and 3.2 acres in size when such lot has no public sewerage
available.
         (c)   The flag portion of the flag lot shall require one-hundred-foot
front and rear yard setbacks and eighty-foot side yard setbacks for any
dwelling, building and/or structure.
         (d)   All lots other than the flag lot shall have a minimum lot width
of 100 feet.
         (e)   An applicant requesting a flag lot subdivision may not own any
contiguous lot or lots which would, if combined, provide sufficient lot
frontage and lot width to create conforming, non-flag-type lots.
         (f)   Placement of a private driveway within the pole shall provide
for a ten-foot-minimum open space grass or landscaped area between the adjacent
property line and the edge of the private driveway. A private driveway within
the pole shall be no less than 20 feet wide and shall be no less than 24 feet,
measured along the curbline, from any adjacent driveway.
         (g)   The flag lot must contain a turnaround area so that an exiting
vehicle can exit in a forward direction.
         (h)   All flag lots shall meet all applicable standards as established
by the Town of Hammonton Fire Chief to ensure safe access to the property by
emergency vehicles.
      (3)   Drawings attached for illustrative purposes only: Editor's Note:
Said drawings are included at the end of this chapter.
         (a)   Two-Lot Flag Lot Minor Subdivision.
         (b)   Three-Lot Flag Lot Minor Subdivision.
   M.    Cannabis. All classes of cannabis establishments, cannabis
distributors or cannabis delivery services as said terms are defined in the New
Jersey Cannabis Regulatory, Enforcement Assistance and Marketplace
Modernization Act (P.L. 2021, c. 16), are hereby prohibited within the Town of
Hammonton, except for the delivery of cannabis items and related supplies by a
licensed cannabis delivery service.
[Added 5-24-2021 by Ord. No. 004-2021]
§ 175-146. Preservation Area.
   The following uses are permitted in the PA Zoning District:
   A.   Residential dwelling on lots of 3.2 acres in accordance with §
175-145G and on lots of one acre in accordance with §
175-145I.
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989; 6-28-1993 by Ord. No. 13-1993]
   B.   Agricultural employee housing as an element of and accessory to an
active agricultural operation.
   C.   Berry agriculture and horticulture of native plants and other
agricultural activities compatible with the existing soil and water conditions
that support traditional Pinelands berry agriculture.
   D.   Forestry.
   E.   Beekeeping.
   F.   Fish and wildlife management and wetlands management.
[Amended 4-22-2013 by Ord. No. 005-2013]
   G.   Low intensity recreational uses, provided that:
      (1)   The parcel proposed for low intensity recreational use has an area
of at least 50 acres.
      (2)   The recreational use does not involve the use of motorized vehicles
except for necessary transportation.
      (3)   Access to bodies of water is limited to no more than 15 linear feet
of frontage per 1,000 feet of water body frontage.
      (4)   The parcel will contain no more than one campsite per two acres,
provided that the campsites shall not be clustered at a net density exceeding
six campsites per acre.
      (5)   Clearing of vegetation, including ground cover and soil
disturbance, does not exceed 5% of the parcel.
      (6)   No more than 1% of the parcel will be covered with impervious
surfaces.
[Amended 4-22-2013 by Ord. No. 005-2013]
   H.   Public service infrastructure which is necessary to serve only the
needs of the Preservation Area District uses. Centralized wastewater treatment
and collection facilities shall be permitted to service the Preservation Area
District only in accordance with §
175-137D(2).
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989; 7-28-1997 by Ord. No. 10-1997]
   I.   Signs.
   J.   Accessory uses.
   K.   Pinelands development credit.
[Added 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989]
   L.   Notwithstanding the minimum lot areas set forth above, no such minimum
lot area for a nonresidential use within the PA Zone shall be less than that
needed to meet the water quality standards of §
175-137D(4), whether or not the lot may be served by a centralized sewer
treatment or collection system. No nonresidential structure shall be located on
a parcel of less than one acre in size.
[Added 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989; amended 7-28-1997 by Ord. No. 10-1997]
§ 175-146.1. Special Agricultural Production District.
[Added 3-15-2001 by Ord. No. 14-2001]
   The following uses are permitted in the SAP District:
   A.   Residential dwelling units on lots of 3.2 acres in accordance with §
175-145G and on lots of one acre in accordance with §
175-145I.
   B.   Residential dwelling units, provided that the dwelling is:
      (1)   Accessory to an active agricultural operation;
      (2)   For an operator or employee of the farm who is actively engaged in
and essential to the agricultural operation;
      (3)   To be located on a parcel of land of at least 40 acres in size
which is under or qualified for agricultural assessment; and
      (4)   Located on a property which has an active production history or
where a farm management plan has been prepared which demonstrates that the
property will be farmed as a unit unto itself or as part of another farm
operation in the area.
   C.   Berry agriculture and horticulture of native plants and other
agricultural activities compatible with the existing soil and water conditions
that support traditional Pinelands berry agriculture.
   D.   Forestry.
   E.   Beekeeping.
   F.   Fish and wildlife management and wetlands management.
[Amended 4-22-2013 by Ord. No. 005-2013]
   G.   Pinelands development credits.
   H.   Public service infrastructure which is necessary to serve only the
needs of the SAP District uses. Centralized wastewater treatment and collection
facilities shall be permitted to service the SAP District only in accordance
with §
175-137D(2).
   I.   Signs.
   J.   Accessory uses, including agricultural employee housing as an element
of and necessary to an active agricultural operation.
§ 175-147. Forest Area.
   The following uses are permitted in the FA Zoning District.
   A.   Residential dwelling units on lots of 3.2 acres in accordance with §
175-145G.
[Amended 10-12-1987 by Ord. No. 13-1987; 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989]
   B.   Additional residential development may be approved, provided that the
gross density of this development does not exceed one unit per 34 acres of land
throughout the Forest Area. These units may be clustered on lots of at least
3.2 acres in size, provided that the gross density does not increase and that
the remainder of the parcel not assigned to individual residential lots shall
be permanently dedicated through recordation of a restriction on the deed to
the parcel as open space with no further development permitted. Recreational
amenities may be permitted on the deed-restricted lands insofar as they are
consistent with the types of recreational amenities which could have been
developed as accessory uses on the residential lots, absent clustering.
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989; 7-28-1997 by Ord. No. 10-1997]
   C.   Agriculture.
   D.   Agricultural employee housing as an element of and necessary to an
active agricultural operation.
   E.   Forestry.
   F.   Low intensity recreational uses, provided that:
      (1)   The parcel proposed for low intensity recreational use has an area
of at least 50 acres.
      (2)   The recreational use does not involve the use of motorized vehicles
except for necessary transportation.
      (3)   Access to bodies of water is limited to no more than 15 linear feet
of frontage per 1,000 feet of water body frontage.
      (4)   Clearing of vegetation, including ground cover and soil
disturbance, does not exceed 5% of the parcel.
      (5)   No more than 1% of the parcel will be covered with impervious
surfaces.
[Amended 4-22-2013 by Ord. No. 005-2013]
   G.   Public service infrastructure intended to primarily serve the needs of
the Pinelands. Centralized wastewater treatment and collection facilities shall
be permitted to service the Forest Area District only in accordance with §
175-137D(2).
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989; 7-28-1997 by Ord. No. 10-1997]
   H.   Signs.
   I.   Accessory uses.
   J.   Campgrounds not to exceed a density of one campsite per gross acre,
provided that the campsites may be clustered at a net density not to exceed 10
campsites per acre.
[Amended 7-28-1997 by Ord. No. 10-1997]
   K.   Agricultural commercial establishments, excluding supermarkets,
restaurants and convenience stores, provided that:
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989]
      (1)   The principal goods or products available for sale were produced in
the Pinelands.
      (2)   The sales area of the establishment does not exceed 5,000 square
feet.
   L.   Roadside retail sales and service establishments, provided that:
      (1)   The parcel proposed for development has roadway frontage of at
least 50 feet.
      (2)   No portion of any structure proposed for development will be more
than 300 feet measured along a line parallel to the roadway from the closest
part of a roadside retail sales and service establishment structure that was in
existence on February 7, 1979.
      (3)   The proposed use will not unduly burden public services, including
but not limited to water, sewer and roads.
   M.   Notwithstanding the minimum lot areas set forth above, no such minimum
lot area for a nonresidential use within the FA Zone shall be less than that
needed to meet the water quality standards of §
175-137D(4), whether or not the lot may be served by a centralized sewer
treatment or collection system. No nonresidential structure shall be located on
a parcel of less than one acre in size.
[Added 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989; amended 7-28-1997 by Ord. No. 10-1997]
   N.   Residential dwelling units on lots of one acre in accordance with §
175-145I or
175-145J.
[Added 6-28-1993 by Ord. No. 13-1993]
   O.   Residential dwelling units on lots of 3.2 acres in accordance with §
175-145K.
[Added 12-14-1998 by Ord. No. 30-1998]
§ 175-148. Agricultural Production District.
   The following uses are permitted in the AP Zoning District:
   A.   Residential dwelling units on lots of 3.2 acres in accordance with §
175-145G and on lots of one acre in accordance with §
175-145I.
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989; 6-28-1993 by Ord. No. 13-1993]
   B.   Residential dwelling units not to exceed a gross density of one unit
per 10 acres, provided that:
[Amended 10-12-1987 by Ord. No. 13-1987; 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989]
      (1)   The dwelling is accessory to an active agricultural operation;
      (2)   The dwelling is for an operator or employee of the farm who is
actively engaged in and essential to the agricultural operation;
      (3)   The dwelling is to be located on a lot which is under or qualified
for agricultural assessment;
[Amended 6-12-1989 by Ord. No. 19-1989]
      (4)   The dwelling is located on a lot which has an active production
history or where a farm management plan has been prepared which demonstrates
that the property will be farmed as a unit unto itself or as part of another
farm operation in the area;
      (5)   A residential lot has not been subdivided from the property within
the previous five years, unless the lot has been subdivided pursuant to §
175-145G of this chapter; and
[Amended 10-22-1990 by Ord. No. 15-1990]
      (6)   No more than one lot may be created for a dwelling pursuant to this
subsection at any one time.
[Added 10-22-1990 by Ord. No. 15-1990]
   C.   Agriculture.
   D.   Agricultural employee housing.
[Amended 3-12-1990 by Ord. No. 7-1990]
      (1)   Freestanding, detached housing for agricultural employees as an
element of and accessory to an active agricultural operation.
      (2)   The following are conditional uses permitted in the AP Zone:
         (a)   Seasonal agricultural employee housing in mobile homes as
accessory to an active agricultural operation, subject to §§
175-114,
175-115 and the Pinelands notice and review requirements of §
175-60.
[Amended 6-25-1990 by Ord. No. 13-1990]
   E.   Forestry.
   F.   Low intensity recreational uses, provided that:
      (1)   The parcel proposed for low intensity recreational use has an area
of at least 50 acres.
      (2)   The recreational use does not involve the use of motorized vehicles
except for necessary transportation.
      (3)   Access to bodies of water is limited to no more than 15 linear feet
of frontage per 1,000 feet of water body frontage.
      (4)   Clearing of vegetation, including ground cover and soil
disturbance, does not exceed 5% of the parcel.
      (5)   No more than 1% of the parcel will be covered with impervious
surfaces.
[Amended 4-22-2013 by Ord. No. 005-2013]
   G.   Agricultural commercial establishments, excluding supermarkets,
restaurants and convenience stores, provided that:
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989]
      (1)   The principal goods or products available for sale were produced in
the Pinelands; and
      (2)   The sales area of the establishment does not exceed 5,000 square
feet.
   H.   Agricultural products processing facilities.
   I.   Public service infrastructure. Centralized wastewater treatment and
collection facilities shall be permitted to service the Agricultural Production
District only in accordance with §
175-137D(2).
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989; 7-28-1997 by Ord. No. 10-1997]
   J.   Signs.
   K.   Accessory uses.
   L.   Editor's Note: Former Subsection L, which established Pinelands
resource-related industries as a permitted use in the AP Zoning District, was
repealed 10-12-1987 by Ord. No. 13-1987. Airports and heliports which are
accessory to agricultural uses and are used exclusively for the storage,
fueling, loading and operation of aircraft as a part of an ongoing agricultural
operation.
   M.   Fish and wildlife management and wetlands management.
[Amended 4-22-2013 by Ord. No. 005-2013]
   N.   Residential dwelling units at a gross density of one unit per 40 acres,
provided that:
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989; 7-28-1997 by Ord. No. 10-1997]
      (1)   The units shall be clustered on one-acre lots;
      (2)   The remainder of the parcel, including all contiguous lands in
common ownership, which is not assigned to individual residential lots shall be
permanently dedicated for agricultural uses through recordation of a
restriction on the deed to the parcel; and
      (3)   The restriction on the deed to the parcel, including any rights to
be redeemed for future residential development, shall be done in accordance
with N.J.A.C. 7:50-5, Part IV, so as to sever any Pinelands development credits
allocated to the parcel.
   O.   Pinelands development credits.
[Added 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989]
   P.   Notwithstanding the minimum lot areas set forth above, no such minimum
lot area for a nonresidential use within the AP Zone shall be less than that
needed to meet the water quality standards of §
175-137D(4), whether or not the lot may be served by a centralized sewer
treatment or collection system. No nonresidential structure shall be located on
a parcel of less than one acre in size.
[Added 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989; amended 6-12-1989 by Ord. No. 19-1989; 7-
28-1997 by Ord. No. 10-1997]
§ 175-149. Agricultural Production/Compatible Light Industry District.
[Amended 7-22-2013 by Ord. No. 011-2013]
   The following uses are permitted in the AP/CLI Zoning District:
   A.   All uses permitted in §
175-148, to the same extent noted therein.
   B.   Airport facilities, including facilities for the takeoff and landing or
aircraft such as runways, aprons, taxi-ways, helicopter pads, air traffic
control facilities, informational facilities and devices and terminal
buildings, as well as fences, lighting antennae systems, on-premises signs,
driveways, access roads and other accessory uses.
[Amended 10-22-1990 by Ord. No. 15-1990]
   C.   Ancillary airport uses, including, but not limited to, airport
maintenance facilities, aviation instruction facilities, aircraft chartering
and aircraft storage buildings.
   D.   Light industrial uses, including distribution centers, warehouses,
enclosed services and repair facilities, business offices and similar
activities subject to the following: 
[Amended 10-12-1987 by Ord. No. 13-1987; 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989]
      (1)   Minimum lot size: five acres.
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 250 feet.
      (3)   Minimum building setback: 100 feet.
      (4)   Minimum side yard, each: 50 feet.
      (5)   Minimum rear yard: 100 feet.
      (6)   Maximum building coverage: 25%.
   E.   A planted buffer area of at least 50 feet shall be provided in the
manner set forth in §
175-91 along all property lines where any proposed use in the AP/CLI Zoning
District abuts or may abut a residential use, a residential district, and
agricultural production district or an active agricultural use.
[Amended 10-9-1989 by Ord. No. 33-1989]
   F.   The uses permitted in B., C., and D. above shall be permitted only if
they will not generate subsidiary or satellite development not otherwise
permitted in the Pinelands Forestry Area, Preservation Area District, Special
Agricultural Production Area or Agricultural Production Area.
   G.   Notwithstanding the minimum lot area set forth in D. above, no such
minimum lot area for a nonresidential use within the AP/CLI Zone shall be less
than that needed to meet the water quality standards of §
175-137D(4), whether or not the lot may be served by a centralized sewer
treatment or collection system.
[Added 6-12-1989 by Ord. No. 19-1989]
§ 175-150. Rural Residential District.
   The following uses are permitted in the RR Zoning District:
   A.   Residential uses; no public sewerage available.
[Amended 10-12-1987 by Ord. No. 13-1987; 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989; 6-12-
1989 by Ord. No. 19-1989; 10-9-1989 by Ord. No. 33-1989]
      (1)   No residential dwelling unit shall be located on a parcel of less
than 1.5 acres unless served by a centralized wastewater treatment plant.
[Amended 11-27-1989 by Ord. No. 40-1989; 6-28-1993 by Ord. No. 13-1993; 6-17-
2002 by Ord. No. 30-2002]
      (2)   A residential dwelling unit on a one-acre lot may be permitted in
the RR Zoning District, provided that:
[Amended 11-27-1989 by Ord. No. 40-1989; 6-17-2002 by Ord. No. 30-2002]
         (a)   The dwelling unit will be the principle residence of the
property owner or member of the immediate family of the property owner;
         (b)   The individual whose principal residence the dwelling unit will
be has not developed a dwelling unit under this section within the previous
five years;
         (c)   The parcel of land on which the dwelling is to be located has
been in the continuous ownership since February 7, 1979, of the person whose
principle residence the dwelling unit will be, a member of that person's
immediate family, or a partnership or corporation in which the members of the
person's immediate family collectively own more than a majority interest in
such partnership or corporation;
         (d)   The person whose principle residence the dwelling unit will be
has resided in the Pinelands for at least five years, and that person or one or
more members of that person's immediate family has resided in the Pinelands for
a total of at least 20 different years.
      (2.1)   A residential dwelling unit on a one-acre lot may be permitted in
the RR Zoning District provided that the one-acre lot was an existing lot of
record as of June 17, 2002.
[Added 6-17-2002 by Ord. No. 30-2002]
      (3)   The following additional bulk requirements shall be satisfied:
         (a)   Minimum lot width: 150 feet.
         (b)   Minimum front yard setback: 60 feet.
[Amended 6-17-2002 by Ord. No. 30-2002]
         (c)   Minimum side yard, each: 25 feet.
[Amended 6-17-2002 by Ord. No. 30-2002]
         (d)   Minimum rear yard setback: 60 feet.
[Amended 6-17-2002 by Ord. No. 30-2002]
         (e)   Maximum lot coverage: 35%.
[Added 6-17-2002 by Ord. No. 30-2002]
   B.   Residential uses; public sewerage available.
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989; 10-9-1989 by Ord. No. 33-1989]
      (1)   Where a major residential development or any commercial development
is proposed on any lot which abuts or is directly across a public street from
an active agricultural use, said development shall incorporate a fifty-foot
buffer or a one-hundred-foot planted buffer where the property abuts an
Agricultural Production (AP) Zone, and shall be established in accordance with
the standards set under §
175-91, which buffer shall be in addition to the required building setback
standards. This buffer shall be required on the property line(s) of the lot
which abuts or is directly across a public street from the active agricultural
use or an Agricultural Production (AP) Zone. As a condition of preliminary
approval of any such development, the developer shall be required to place on
record prior to securing any final approval for said development a deed
creating a perpetual conservation easement over said buffer, where the property
abuts an Agricultural Production (AP) Zone.
      (2)   Single-family detached dwelling unit, subject to the following:
[Amended 6-17-2002 by Ord. No. 30-2002]
         (a)   Minimum lot size: 43,560 square feet (one acre).
         (b)   Minimum lot width: 120 feet.
         (c)   Minimum front yard setback: 60 feet.
         (d)   Minimum side yard setback, each: 25 feet.
         (e)   Minimum rear yard setback: 60 feet.
         (f)   Maximum lot coverage: 35%.
      (2.1)   Single-family detached dwelling unit may be permitted in the RR
Zoning District with public sewage available on a minimum lot of 22,000 square
feet, provided that:
[Added 6-17-2002 by Ord. No. 30-2002]
         (a)   The dwelling unit will be the principle residence of the
property owner or member of the immediate family of the property owner;
         (b)   The individual whose principal residence the dwelling unit will
be has not developed a dwelling unit under this section within the previous
five years;
         (c)   The parcel of land on which the dwelling is to be located has
been in the continuous ownership since February 7, 1979, of the person whose
principle residence the dwelling unit will be, a member of that person's
immediate family, or a partnership or corporation in which the members of the
person's immediate family collectively own more than a majority interest in
such partnership or corporation;
         (d)   The person whose principle residence the dwelling unit will be
has resided in the Pinelands for at least five years and that person or one or
more members of that person's immediate family has resided in the Pinelands for
a total of at least 20 different years.
         (e)   Minimum lot width: 120 feet.
         (f)   Minimum front yard setback: 60 feet.
         (g)   Minimum side yard setback, each: 25 feet.
         (h)   Minimum rear yard setback: 60 feet.
         (i)   Maximum lot coverage: 35%.
      (2.2)   Single-family detached dwelling unit may be permitted in the RR
Zoning District with public sewage available on minimum lot of 22,000 square
feet, provided that the twenty-two-thousand-square-foot lot was an existing lot
of record as of June 17, 2002.
[Added 6-17-2002 by Ord. No. 30-2002]
      (3)   Twin-or two-family dwelling unit, shall not be permitted.
[Amended 6-17-2002 by Ord. No. 30-2002]
      (4)   Other uses permitted:
         (a)   Public buildings, but not including correctional institutions,
workshops or warehouses.
         (b)   Public playgrounds, conservation areas and parks.
         (c)   Farms limited to the raising of flowers, fruit or vegetable
crops.
         (d)   Veterinary hospitals, subject to the minimum area and yard
requirements for residential uses, and completely within a building.
         (e)   Churches or other places of worship, including schools for
religious instruction and parish halls.
         (f)   Customary residential accessory uses subject to the regulations
therefor.
         (g)   With the exception of a proposed agricultural use, the Planning
Board shall require a planted buffer in accordance with §
175-91 for any of the above-noted permitted uses where the property abuts an
active agricultural use or abuts an Agricultural Production (AP) Zone. The
buffer requirements shall be as follows:
[Amended 11-27-1989 by Ord. No. 40-1989]
            [1]   If the proposed use is located across the street or abuts an
existing active agricultural use, a fifty-foot buffer shall be applied.
            [2]   If the proposed use is located across the street or abuts an
Agricultural Production (AP) Zone, a one-hundred-foot buffer shall be applied.
            [3]   Any development which is subject to the buffer requirements
of Subsection B(4)(g)[2] above shall, as a condition of preliminary approval
and prior to filing for any final approval, place a deed on record creating a
perpetual conservation easement over said buffer area.
      (5)   The following are permitted as conditional uses:
         (a)   Agricultural or horticultural use subject to all the bulk area
limitations of §
175-149C, and provided further that no building, fenced run or other enclosure
for the shelter of fowl or other farm livestock shall be closer than 200 feet
from any street, 100 feet from any property line or 500 feet from any existing
residential dwelling unit, whichever is greater; nor shall any building or
fenced run be erected or used for the shelter of more than 25 head of fowl or
more than 4 head of other farm livestock in any case.
         (b)   Conversion of an existing single-family dwelling into no more
than two apartment units, provided that:
            [1]   Each resulting apartment unit shall consist of at least four
rooms, two of which shall be a kitchen and a full bathroom; shall meet all
health, safety and building code provisions applicable at the time of
conversion; shall have separate, safe and convenient means of access; and shall
have access to public utilities.
            [2]   The floor area of the original dwelling shall not be
increased in connection with the conversion thereof.
            [3]   The lot containing such dwelling to be converted shall
contain at least 25,000 square feet; shall have a minimum width of 80 feet;
shall provide a minimum front yard setback of 30 feet or setback of adjacent
properties, whichever is lesser; shall provide minimum side yards of 25 feet;
and shall provide a minimum rear yard setback of 60 feet. Editor's Note: Former
Subsection B(5)(c), regarding cluster single-family/two-family dwelling units,
as amended 11-27-1989 by Ord. No. 40-1989, and which immediately followed this
subsection, was repealed 3-25-2002 by Ord. No. 12-2002.
      (6)   Accessory uses permitted in addition to customary accessory uses:
         (a)   Farmhouse or tenant house as an accessory use to a farm,
provided that such use complies with the area and yard requirements for other
residential uses within the district.
         (b)   Migrant labor housing as part of a farm and customarily
incidental to that principal use.
         (c)   Packing house for agricultural produce and other buildings
customarily incidental to the principal use of a farm.
   C.   Height. No building shall exceed 35 feet in height except as otherwise
noted herein.
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989]
   D.   No nonresidential use in the RR District shall be located on a parcel
of less than 1.5 acres unless served by a centralized wastewater treatment
plant, in which case the minimum lot size becomes one acre.
[Added 6-28-1993 by Ord. No. 13-1993; amended 6-17-2002 by Ord. No. 30-2002]
§ 175-151. Residential-1 District.
   The following uses are permitted in the R-1 Zoning District. All uses shall
have access to public utilities.
   A.   Residential uses.
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989]
      (1)   Single-family detached dwelling unit, subject to the following:
         (a)   Minimum lot size: 12,500 square feet.
         (b)   Minimum lot width: 80 feet.
         (c)   Minimum front yard setback: 30 feet.
         (d)   Minimum side yard setback, each: 10 feet.
         (e)   Minimum rear yard setback: 30 feet.
      (2)   Editor's Note: Former Subsection A(2), regarding single-family
attached/multifamily dwelling units, was repealed 12-27-1999 by Ord. No. 35-
1999. Twin- or two-family dwelling units, subject to the following:
         (a)   Minimum lot size: 18,000 square feet.
         (b)   Minimum lot width: 110 feet.
         (c)   Minimum front yard setback: 30 feet.
         (d)   Minimum side yard setback: 15 feet, with one common party wall.
         (e)   Minimum rear yard setback: 30 feet.
         (f)   The provision of the appropriate buffer requirements of §
175-91.
[Added 10-9-1989 by Ord. No. 33-1989]
      (3)   Customary residential accessory uses subject to the regulations
therefor.
   B.   Nonresidential uses.
      (1)   Public playgrounds, conservation areas and parks.
      (2)   Public buildings, limited to libraries, museums and schools,
provided that in the case of schools, such use shall be limited to either a
public or private nonprofit institution of elementary or secondary education.
      (3)   Farms limited to the raising of flowers, fruits or vegetable crops.
      (4)   Churches or other places of worship, including schools for
religious instruction and parish halls.
   C.   Conditional uses.
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989; 10-9-1989 by Ord. No. 33-1989; 11-27-
1989 by Ord. No. 40-1989; 12-27-1999 by Ord. No. 35-1999]
      (1)   Professional offices subject to §
175-109.
   D.   No nonresidential use in the R-1 District shall be located on a parcel
unless served by a centralized wastewater treatment plant.
[Added 6-28-1993 by Ord. No. 13-1993; amended 6-17-2002 by Ord. No. 30-2002]
§ 175-152. Residential-2 District.
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989]
   The following uses are permitted in the R-2 Zoning District. All uses shall
have access to public utilities.
   A.   Residential uses.
      (1)   Single-family detached dwelling unit, subject to the following:
         (a)   Minimum lot size: 12,500 square feet.
         (b)   Minimum lot width: 80 feet.
         (c)   Minimum front yard setback: 30 feet.
         (d)   Minimum side yard setback, each: 10 feet.
         (e)   Minimum rear yard setback: 30 feet.
      (2)   Editor's Note: Former Subsection A(2), regarding single-family
attached/multifamily dwelling units, was repealed 12-27-1999 by Ord. No. 35-
1999. Twin or two-family dwelling units, subject to the following:
         (a)   Minimum lot size: 18,000 square feet.
         (b)   Minimum lot width: 110 feet.
         (c)   Minimum front yard setback: 30 feet.
         (d)   Minimum side yard setback: 15 feet, with one common party wall.
         (e)   Minimum rear yard setback: 30 feet.
      (3)   Customary residential accessory uses subject to the regulations
therefor.
   B.   Nonresidential uses.
      (1)   Public playgrounds, conservation areas and parks.
      (2)   Public buildings, limited to libraries, museums and schools,
provided that, in the case of schools, such use shall be limited to either a
public or private nonprofit institution of elementary or secondary education.
      (3)   Farms limited to the raising of flowers, fruits or vegetable crops.
      (4)   Churches or other places of worship, including schools for
religious instruction and parish halls.
   C.   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Professional offices, subject to §
175-109. Editor's Note: Former Subsection C(2), regarding cluster single- and
two-family dwelling units, which immediately followed this subsection, was
repealed 12-27-1999 by Ord. No. 35-1999.
   D.   No nonresidential use in the R-2 District shall be located on a parcel
of less than one acre unless served by a centralized wastewater treatment
plant.
[Added 6-28-1993 by Ord. No. 13-1993]
§ 175-153. Residential-3 District.
[Added 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989]
   The following uses are permitted in the R-3 Zoning District:
   A.   Residential uses.
[Amended 10-9-1989 by Ord. No. 33-1989; 11-27-1989 by Ord. No. 40-1989; 6-17-
2002 by Ord. No. 30-2002]
      (1)   No residential dwelling unit shall be located on a parcel of less
than 1.5 acres unless served by a centralized wastewater treatment plant.
      (2)   Single-family detached dwellings, where public sewerage is
available, subject to the following:
         (a)   Minimum lot size: 25,000 square feet.
         (b)   Minimum lot width: 120 feet.
         (c)   Maximum lot coverage: 40%.
      (3)   Twin- or two-family detached dwelling units, but only where public
sewerage is available, subject to the following:
         (a)   Minimum lot size: 37,500 square feet.
         (b)   Maximum lot coverage: 40%.
   B.   Nonresidential uses.
      (1)   Public playgrounds, conservation areas and parks.
      (2)   Public buildings, limited to libraries, museums and schools,
provided that, in the case of schools, such use shall be limited to either a
public or private nonprofit institution of elementary or secondary education.
      (3)   Farms, limited to the raising of flowers, fruits or vegetable
crops.
      (4)   Churches or other places of worship, including schools for
religious instruction and parish halls.
      (5)   Offices and office buildings.
      (6)   Garden centers engaged in the retail sale of plant materials,
provided that in the case of schools, such use shall be limited to either a
public or private nonprofit institution of elementary or secondary education.
      (7)   Professional offices limited to doctors, dentists, architects,
engineers, planners, lawyers, real estate agents, insurance brokers and offices
for similarly licensed professionals.
      (8)   Buffers.
[Added 10-9-1989 by Ord. No. 33-1989]
         (a)   The Planning Board shall require a planted buffer established in
accordance with the standards set by §
175-91 for any permitted use where the property upon which said permitted use
is being developed with the exception of an agricultural use where the property
in question abuts an active agricultural use, abuts an Agricultural Production
(AP) Zone or directly across a public street that abuts an active agricultural
use or an Agricultural Production (AP) Zone, which buffer shall meet the
following requirements:
            [1]   If the proposed use is located across the street or abuts an
existing active agricultural use, a fifty-foot buffer shall be applied.
            [2]   If the proposed use is located across the street or abuts an
Agricultural Production (AP) Zone, a one-hundred-foot buffer shall be applied.
         (b)   The applicant, for approval of any development within this
section which is subject to the buffer requirements of Subsection B(8)(a)[2]
above, shall, as a condition of preliminary approval and prior to filing for
any final approval, place a deed on record creating a perpetual conservation
easement over said buffer area.
      (9)   No nonresidential use in the R-3 District shall be located on a
parcel of less than one acre unless served by a centralized wastewater
treatment plant with the exception of those uses which do not require any
sanitary sewer system such as public playgrounds, conservation areas, farms,
parks and other similar uses.
[Added 9-25-2000 by Ord. No. 36-2000]
   C.   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Home occupations subject to §
175-108.
      (2)   Home professional offices subject to §
175-109.
      (3)   Conversion of an existing single-family dwelling into no more than
two apartment units, provided that:
         (a)   Each resulting apartment unit shall consist of at least four
rooms, two of which shall be a kitchen and a full bathroom; shall meet all
health, safety and building code provisions applicable at the time of
conversion; shall have separate, safe and convenient means of access; and shall
have access to public utilities.
         (b)   The floor area of the original dwelling shall not be increased
for the purpose of or in connection with the conversion thereof.
         (c)   The lot containing such dwelling to be converted shall contain
at least 25,000 square feet; shall have a minimum width of 110 feet; shall
provide a minimum front yard setback of 50 feet or a setback equal to the
adjacent properties, whichever is the lesser; shall provide minimum side yards
of 20 feet; and shall provide a minimum rear yard setback of 50 feet.
[Amended 6-17-2002 by Ord. No. 30-2002]
      (4)   Editor's Note: Former Subsection C(4), regarding single-family
attached/multifamily dwelling units, as amended 10-9-1989 by Ord. No. 33-1989,
was repealed 12-27-1999 by Ord. No. 35-1999. Cluster single-family/two-family
dwelling units shall not be permitted.
[Amended 10-9-1989 by Ord. No. 33-1989; 11-27-1989 by Ord. No. 40-1989; 6-17-
2002 by Ord. No. 30-2002]
      (5)   Wholesale distribution centers and warehousing, provided that such
activities are conducted entirely within an enclosed structure under the
following conditions:
[Added 10-9-1989 by Ord. No. 33-1989]
         (a)   The hours of operation shall be limited to be consistent with
the neighboring uses so as to reduce any potential for conflict.
         (b)   A planted perimeter buffer shall be established along all
property lines and be consistent with the following standards:
            [1]   A fifty-foot planted buffer shall be established along all
property lines in accordance with §
175-91.
            [2]   Where the proposed use abuts an Agricultural Production (AP)
Zone, a one-hundred-foot planted buffer in accordance with §
175-91 shall be applied.
            [3]   Any developer with a development that qualifies under
Subsection C(5)(b)[2] shall, as a condition of preliminary approval and prior
to filing for final approval, place a deed on record creating a perpetual
conservation easement over said buffer area, where the property abuts an
Agricultural Production (AP) Zone.
         (c)   Access to the property shall be controlled through an improved
driveway opening. The location, width, type and construction detail shall be
approved by the Planning Board, its engineer and/or traffic consultant.
   D.   R-3A Zone.
[Added 12-27-1999 by Ord. No. 35-1999 Editor's Note: this article also repealed
former Subsection D, regarding nonresidential uses on parcels of less than one
acre, added 6-28-1993 by Ord. No. 13-1993. ]
      (1)   There shall be created within the Residential-3 District a zone
entitled R-3A which shall be limited to Block 3801, Lots 5, 6 and 6.01,
formerly located in the R-3 and B-2 Zones.
[Amended 2-28-2000 by Ord. No. 3-2000]
      (2)   The following uses shall be permitted within the R-3A Zone:
         (a)   Single-family attached/multifamily dwelling units, but only if
public sewerage and water is available at the site and subject to the
following:
         [1]   Minimum tract size shall be seven acres.
         [2]   Not more than 35% of the lot area shall be covered by buildings
and paving. A minimum of 25% of the tract shall be in common open space with
the appropriate recreational facilities; such open space shall be in areas not
less than one acre.
         [3]   No multifamily unit or single-family attached unit shall be
constructed in any areas where public sewerage facilities and water are not
then available or cannot be made available by the developer.
         [4]   The maximum density for single-family attached units and
multifamily units shall be six per acre subject however to a 20% set aside of
the total units for low- and moderate-income households as defined by the
Council on Affordable Housing (COAH) and further subject to the rules,
regulations and restrictions imposed by COAH.
         [5]   A development may consist of all single-family attached units, a
combination of attached and multifamily units or all multifamily units. Any
type of unit proposed must comprise at least 35% of the total units.
         [6]   No structure containing multifamily or single-family attached
units shall exceed 21/2 stories in height.
         [7]   Any basement or part thereof in any structure used for dwelling
purposes must meet all appropriate requirements of state and local building
codes.
         [8]   Multifamily and single-family attached development shall reflect
superior features of design and layout and shall conform to the following
building design criteria:
            [a]   Single-family attached units. Each structure shall contain
not more than eight single-family attached units, and in no case shall any
structure exceed 175 feet in length. To mitigate the visual impact created by
long building facades, offsets of at least four feet shall be provided after
every two units.
            [b]   Multifamily units. Each structure shall contain not more than
16 units, and in no case shall any structure exceed 180 feet in length. To
mitigate the visual impact created by long building facades, offsets of at
least four feet shall be provided after every four entrances.
            [c]   The following minimum building spacing shall be maintained
for all structures containing four or more units:
            [d]   End-wall to end-wall separation shall be maintained at a
minimum distance of 30 feet.
            [e]   The distance of any building face to the curbline of the
street shall be at least 30 feet.
            [f]   Any building face to parking area separation shall be
maintained at a minimum distance equal to ½ the height of the highest building
wall, but in no case less than 20 feet.
            [g]   End-wall to window-wall separations shall be maintained at a
minimum distance equal to 11/2 times the height of the highest building wall,
but in no case less than 40 feet.
            [h]   Window-wall to window-wall separations shall be maintained at
the minimum distance equal to two times the height of the highest building
wall, but in no case, less than 65 feet.
         [9]   A perimeter buffer of at least 50 feet shall be provided around
the entire proposed development. The buffer shall consist of natural vegetation
and/or planted material as stipulated in §
175-91. No stormwater drainage facilities or active recreation facilities are
to be located in this buffer area.
         [10]   Where the proposed residential development is proposed on any
lot which abuts or is across a public street from an active agricultural use,
the development shall incorporate a fifty-foot planted buffer or a one-hundred-
foot planted buffer where the property abuts an Agricultural Production (AP)
Zone in accordance with §
175-91, in addition to the required building setback standards. This buffer
shall be required on the property line(s) of the lot which abuts or is across a
public street from the active agricultural use or the Agricultural Production
(AP) Zone.
         [11]   Where an applicant for development is required to establish a
buffer under Subsection D(2)(a)[9] or [10] as herein referenced. Said developer
as a condition of preliminary approval shall be required, prior to filing for
major subdivision or site plan approval, to place on record a deed creating a
perpetual conservation easement over the buffer area as defined in said
sections, where the property abuts an Agricultural Production (AP) Zone.
§ 175-154. (Reserved) 31
31.   Editor's Note: Former §
175-154, Town Business District, as amended, was repealed by Ord. No. 23-2011,
adopted 11-28-2011.
§ 175-154.1. Gateway District, Avenue.
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   A.   District intent. The areas proposed for G1 "Gateway Avenue" are
currently located in R-1 and R-2 Zones, along important streets that run
through residential neighborhoods toward the center of Hammonton. They are made
up primarily of detached single-family homes on larger lots. The new
designation will preserve residential character, while allowing for some
additional f1exibility to improve walkability and connections between downtown
and the Gateway.
   B.   Location. This map indicates where this Zoning District will be mapped
when amending the Zoning Map for the Town of Hammonton located at §
175-143. No scale.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2712.jpg]
 
   C.   Permitted building types.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2714.jpg]
 
   D.   Minimum lot size. Minimum lot size in this district is: 12,500 sq. ft.
   E.   Permitted uses.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2716.jpg]
 
§ 175-154.2. Gateway District, Boulevard.
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   A.   District intent. G2 is made up of the parcels that are currently zoned
B-2 "Highway Business" along White Horse Pike between Fairview and Broadway.
Revisions to the B-2 "Highway Business" are proposed to create a smaller
district that would preserve the current commercial character of the B-2 zone,
but with added provisions to reflect specific community goals for a Gateway.
   B.   Location. This map indicates where this Zoning District will be mapped
when amending the Zoning Map for the Town of Hammonton located at §
175-143. No scale.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2718.jpg]
 
   C.   Permitted building types:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2720.jpg]
 
   D.   Minimum lot size. Minimum lot size in this district is: 50,000 sq. ft.
However, no residential dwelling unit or nonresidential use shall be located on
a parcel of less than one acre unless served by a centralized wastewater
treatment plant.
   E.   Permitted uses.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2722.jpg]
 
   F.   Adjacency to active agricultural uses. Proposed development on any lot
which abuts or is across a public street from an active agricultural use, see §
175-155A(13).
§ 175-154.3. Gateway District, Crossroads.
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   A.   District intent. Comprising the blocks immediately surrounding the
intersection of White Horse Pike and Bellevue, which are currently zoned B-
2 "Highway Business;" G3 "Gateway Crossroads" would remain primarily for mid-
sized commerce. However, it would also expand Building Type options to allow
for new development that could be arranged in a way that would signal to those
travelling along White Horse Pike that this is an important area, with another
important area (Main Street) nearby.
   B.   Location. This map indicates where this Zoning District will be mapped
when amending the Zoning Map for the Town of Hammonton located at §
175-143. No scale.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2724.jpg]
 
   C.   Permitted building types.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2726.jpg]
 
   D.   Minimum lot size. Minimum lot size in this district is: 20,000 sq. ft.
   E.   Permitted uses.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2728.jpg]
 
§ 175-154.4. Downtown District, Near Town.
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   A.   District intent. Although made up primarily of detached single-family
homes on larger lots, the areas proposed for D1 "Near Town" are currently
located in R-1, R-2, B-1, and MD Zones. The new designation will simplify this,
and will preserve the residential character of the blocks involved, while
allowing for some additional f1exibility. These improvements are intended to
improve walkability and manage the transition between downtown and adjacent
residential neighborhoods.
   B.   Location. This map indicates where this Zoning District will be mapped
when amending the Zoning Map for the Town of Hammonton located at §
175-143. No scale.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2730.jpg]
 
   C.   Permitted building types.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2732.jpg]
 
   D.   Minimum lot size. Minimum lot size in this district is: 10,000 sq. ft.,
except when a Twin House Building Type is proposed. The Twin House Building
Type consists of two dwelling units that abut along a shared property line. If
a Twin House Building Type is proposed the minimum lot size is 5,000 sq. ft.
per lot so that the total minimum area for the two lots the building spans
across is 10,000 sq. ft.
[Amended 6-17-2019 by Ord. No. 14-2019]
   E.   Permitted uses.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2945.jpg]
 
 
§ 175-154.5. Downtown District, In Town Railway.
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011; amended 6-17-2019 by Ord. No. 14-2019]
   A.   District intent. Made up of the parcels currently zoned MD between 13th
and 11th (with the exception of those now in DT4) this district now includes a
mix of residential, light industrial, and other commercial uses. "In Town
Railway" will expand the options for the commercial employment and light
industrial uses that are not appropriate for other Downtown Zones, but should
near the train tracks and center of town. Despite this distinction, it will be
similar in character to D3 "In Town," and will include larger buildings that
can host low-impact manufacturing, institutional, and residential uses.
   B.   Location. This map indicates where this Zoning District will be mapped
when amending the Zoning Map for the Town of Hammonton located at §
175-143. No scale.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2736.jpg]
 
   C.   Permitted building types.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2738.jpg]
 
   D.   Minimum lot size. Minimum lot size in this district is: 10,000 sq. ft.,
except when a Twin House Building Type is proposed. The Twin House Building
Type consists of two dwelling units that abut along a shared property line. If
a Twin House Building Type is proposed the minimum lot size is 5,000 sq. ft.
per lot so that the total minimum area for the two lots the building spans
across is 10,000 sq. ft.
   E.   Permitted uses.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2740.jpg]
 
§ 175-154.6. Downtown District, In Town.
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011; amended 6-17-2019 by Ord. No. 14-2019]
   A.   District intent. Made up of the parcels currently zoned R-1, R-2, and
B-1 that surround the Main Street blocks, this district now includes a mix of
residential and commercial uses. The "ln-Town" zone/district will expand
options for retail growth in the center of Hammonton while supporting Main
Street activities and improving options for downtown living.
   B.   Location. This map indicates where this Zoning District will be mapped
when amending the Zoning Map for the Town of Hammonton located at §
175-143. No scale.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2742.jpg]
 
   C.   Permitted building types.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2744.jpg]
 
   D.   Minimum lot size. Minimum lot size in this district is:
      (1)   2,500 sq. ft. for commercial buildings;
      (2)   10,000 sq. ft. for residential buildings, except when a Twin House
Building Type is proposed. The Twin House Building Type consists of two
dwelling units that abut along a shared property line. If a Twin House Building
Type is proposed the minimum lot size is 5,000 sq. ft. per lot so that the
total minimum area for the two lots the building spans across is 10,000 sq. ft.
   E.   Permitted uses.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2746.jpg]
 
§ 175-154.7. Downtown District, Downtown.
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   A.   District intent. Made up of the parcels currently zoned R-1, R-2, and
B-1 that surround the Main Street blocks, this district now includes a mix of
residential and commercial uses. The "ln-Town" zone/district will expand
options for retail growth in the center of Hammonton while supporting Main
Street activities and improving options for downtown living.
   B.   Location. This map indicates where this Zoning District will be mapped
when amending the Zoning Map for the Town of Hammonton located at §
175-143. No scale.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2748.jpg]
 
   C.   Permitted building types.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2750.jpg]
 
   D.   Minimum lot size. Minimum lot size in this district is: 800 sq. ft.
   E.   Permitted uses.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2752.jpg]
 
§ 175-154.8. Conditional Uses, Downtown and Gateway Districts.
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   A.   For areas within the designated Downtown and Gateway Districts, the
Planning Board shall not approve any conditional use application for any of the
following uses under this chapter unless the following enumerated specific
conditions have been met:
      (1)   Accessory Dwelling Unit.
         (a)   Limited to Accessory Building or Structure
         (b)   Not permitted on lots with Bank or Savings Institution use or
Municipal use.
      (2)   Bank or Savings Institution.
         (a)   The bank or savings institution is to be located on the first
floor, unless accessory to retail use where the institution may be located on
an upper floor adjacent to retail use.
         (b)   Bank or savings institution use may not be accessory to Dwelling
Units or Private School uses.
      (3)   Business Office.
         (a)   Business office uses may be located on any floor where
permitted.
         (b)   For all districts, storage of Business Office waste materials
and garbage shall be an enclosed container; such container shall be stored
inside the main building or in a separately enclosed structure that will
completely confine odors.
         (c)   Apron Shopfront, Special Industry and Strip Commerce buildings
may have Business Offices as accessory uses to principal permitted uses.
      (4)   Commercial Parking (as Primary Use).
         (a)   Parking may be a primary use only if facility (surface lot or
structure) is publicly owned.
         (b)   Commercial Parking anywhere will only be permitted if facility
(surface lot or structure) is publicly owned.
      (5)   Day care (Downtown Zoning Districts).
         (a)   When conducted within a building type defined as Residential
Structure, the use must:
            i.   Be accessory use to a principal residential use;
            ii.   Allow no more arrivals than permitted under New Jersey's
Manual of Requirements For Child Care Centers 10:122-4.1-4 (permitted number of
attendees related to staff requirements.)
         (b)   (Reserved)
         (c)   Have no more than one employee or associate who does not reside
at the home.
         (d)   Provide a play area either at the home or at a suitable play
area (public or owned by a homeowners association to which the residence
belongs) located within 1,000 feet of the home that shall:
            i.   Be enclosed by a fence which allows air and light to penetrate
it and be capable of containing each child using the area.
            ii.   Not be within a required building setback.
            iii.   Not be closer than 20 feet of any property line.
            iv.   Not be within a parking area.
            v.   Not conduct outdoor play activities before 8 a.m. or after 8
p.m.
         (e)   Parking areas and vehicular circulation patterns shall:
            i.   Enhance the safety of children as they arrive at and leave the
facility.
            ii.   Include a designated pickup and delivery area, which may be a
marked area within the public right of way, providing at a minimum one stacking
space per 20 children, and located adjacent to the school structure in such a
way that visitors may avoid walking across vehicular travel ways to enter or
exit the center.
         (f)   Day care may not be an accessory use where Restaurant is the
principal use.
         (g)   Where Day care is an accessory use, it must be compatible with
the principal use in terms of hours of operation, noise, lighting, parking and
similar considerations.
         (h)   The screening requirements for commercial properties shall be
met.
      (6)   Funeral Parlors.
         (a)   Existing Funeral Parlors shall be permitted. All other Funeral
Parlors shall be conditional.
         (b)   Funeral Parlors shall be on lots of no less than four acres.
         (c)   Storage and parking of funeral-related vehicles shall be an
enclosed garage; garage can be located inside of and to the rear of the main
building or in a separately enclosed structure.
         (d)   Parking shall be buffered from all adjacent properties by a 30-
foot planted strip and adequate screening.
         (e)   Parking shall be located at the side or rear of the main
building.
      (f )   Parking shall be provided at a rate of one space per 25 square
feet of floor area.
         (g)   Setbacks shall be no less than 50 feet in any direction for
Funeral Homes in all building types.
      (7)   Gasoline Filling Station.
         (a)   Gasoline Filling Stations permitted in GW-2 only, subject to §
175-124.
      (8)   Home Occupations.
         (a)   Home occupations are only permitted as accessory uses to a
principal residential use ("Owner Occupied").
         (b)   Off-street parking areas shall be provided, and shall preserve
the character of the neighborhood by being located behind the principal
structure.
         (c)   Additional conditions subject to §
175-108.
      (9)   Home Professional Office.
         (a)   A home professional office is only permitted as an accessory use
to a principal residential use.
         (b)   Home professional offices are not permitted in GW-1 District
         (c)   Home professional office subject to §
175-109.
      (10)   Local Retail.
         (a)   If located in a Cottage House building, the residential
character of the building type and the lot is to be maintained.
         (b)   Retail uses on ground floor; retail uses on upper floors
permitted only with retail use directly underneath on next lower floor with
exception of basement.
      (11)   Local Service.
         (a)   Local service uses on ground floor only.
         (b)   Storage of waste materials and garbage shall be an enclosed
container; such container shall be stored inside the main building or in a
separately enclosed structure that will completely confine odors.
         (c)   For activities involving odors a system to vent exhausts and
odors shall be provided so that the exhaust and odor shall not offend or
disturb nearby commercial or residential uses or intrude on any street,
sidewalk or walkway. This shall include the requirement of filters or other
technologically adequate means of eliminating odors from the exhaust. Such
vents shall be interior and exit through the roof.
      (12)   Private School.
         (a)   School activities shall:
            i.   Be separated (including the restrooms) by a physical barrier
from the remaining portion of the building in which it is located.
            ii.   If an accessory use, be compatible with principal use in
terms of hours of operation, noise, lighting, parking and similar
considerations.
         (b)   Parking areas and vehicular circulation patterns shall:
            i.   Enhance the safety of children as they arrive at and leave the
facility.
            ii.   Include a designated pickup and delivery area, which may be a
marked area within the public right of way, providing at a minimum one stacking
space per 20 children, and located adjacent to the school structure in such a
way that visitors may avoid walking across vehicular travel ways to enter or
exit the center.
         (c)   The screening requirements for commercial properties shall be
met.
         (d)   If an outdoor recreation area is provided, it must:
            i.   Be enclosed by a fence which allows air and light to penetrate
it and be capable of containing each child using the area;
            ii.   Not be within a required building setback.
            iii.   Not be closer than 20 feet of any property line.
            iv.   Not be within a parking area.
            v.   Not conduct outdoor play activities before 8 a.m. or after 8
p.m.
         (e)   If food service is provided, it must:
            i.   Unless accessory to a restaurant (i.e. cooking school), be
limited to food preparation for students and staff and cooking facilities will
not be provided.
            ii.   (Reserved)
            iii.   Store waste materials and garbage in an enclosed container;
such container shall be stored inside the main building or in a separately
enclosed structure that will completely confine odors.
      (13)   Professional Office.
         (a)   Parking shall be buffered from adjacent residential uses by a
ten-foot planted strip and adequate screening, and from adjacent residential
office uses by a five-foot planted strip and screening.
         (b)   For professional offices that are accessory to Dwelling Units in
Residential Structures, the residential character of the building type and the
lot is to be maintained.
         (c)   Professional office use may not be accessory to Restaurant use.
      (14)   Restaurant.
         (a)   Storage of waste materials and garbage shall be an enclosed
container; such container shall be stored inside the main building or in a
separately enclosed structure that will completely confine odors.
         (b)   All cooking and food preparation shall be confined to the ground
floor of any structure, except that storage may be in the basement.
         (c)   Restaurant services including dining, catering and office
support may occur on any floor.
         (d)   No restaurant shall have in excess of 5,000 square feet of total
floor area, exclusive of storage area.
         (e)   A system to vent cooking exhausts and odors shall be provided so
that the exhaust and odor shall not offend or disturb nearby commercial or
residential uses or intrude on any street, sidewalk or walkway. This shall
include the requirement of filters or other technologically adequate means of
eliminating oils, grease and odors from the exhaust. Such vents shall be
interior and exit through the roof.
         (f)   Restaurant use is to be considered the principal use of any
structure and not an accessory use.
      (15)   Single Family Residence.
         (a)   Single Family Residence in an Accessory Building shall follow
Conditional Use requirements for Accessory Dwelling Units.
      (16)   Take-Out Restaurant.
         (a)   Storage of waste materials and garbage shall be an enclosed
container; such container shall be stored inside the main building or in a
separately enclosed structure that will completely confine odors.
         (b)   All cooking and food preparation shall be confined to the ground
floor of any structure, except that storage may be in the basement.
         (c)   Restaurant services including dining, catering and office
support may occur on any floor.
         (d)   No restaurant shall have in excess of 5,000 square feet of total
floor area, exclusive of storage area.
         (e)   A system to vent cooking exhausts and odors shall be provided so
that the exhaust and odor shall not offend or disturb nearby commercial or
residential uses or intrude on any street, sidewalk or walkway. This shall
include the requirement of filters or other technologically adequate means of
eliminating oils, grease and odors from the exhaust. Such vents shall be
interior and exit through the roof.
         (f)   Take-Out Restaurant use is to be considered the principal use of
any structure and not an accessory use.
§ 175-154.9. Downtown Improvement District.
[Added 2-22-2016 by Ord. No. 003-2016]
   A.   Establishment of the District and Zone. The Town of Hammonton Downtown
Improvement District (the "District") is hereby established, consisting of the
properties designated and listed on Schedule A to Ord. No. 003-2016 annexed
hereto by tax block and lot numbers. The District shall be managed by a
District Management Corporation. A Downtown Business Improvement Zone is hereby
created and designated and shall be co-extensive with the Improvement District.
   B.   Assessment. All costs of improvements and maintenance, other than the
costs of improvements and maintenance ordinarily incurred by Town of Hammonton
out of general funds, shall be determined and approved pursuant to N.J.S.A. 40:
56-80 or N.J.S.A. 40:56-85 as determined by the District Management
Corporation. A special assessment shall be assessed against the properties
within the Downtown Improvement District for the purpose of promoting the
economic and general welfare of the District, to be spent on those purposes
permitted by N.J.S.A. 40:56-65 et seq. The foregoing special assessment shall
not exceed one dollar ($1.00) per property.
   C.   Annual Report and Budgets. The District Management Corporation shall
submit an annual report to the Town of Hammonton governing body pursuant to
N.J.S.A. 40:56-80 within 30 days of the close of the fiscal year. This report
shall consist of a narrative covering the previous year's operation and
detailed financial statements.
      (1)   The District Management Corporation shall submit a detailed
business plan and budget for the upcoming year no later than July 1 of the
current fiscal year, for the approval by resolution of the Town Committee,
pursuant to the provisions of N.J.S.A. 40:56-84. The budget shall be submitted
with a report that explains how the budget contributes to the goals and
objectives for the Downtown Improvement District.
      (2)   The fiscal year of the district and the management corporation
shall be January 1st to December 31st, except that the first year of operation
will commence upon adoption of this ordinance, and appointment and installation
of the District Management Corporation.
      (3)   The District Management Corporation shall also cause an audit of
its books, accounts and financial transactions to be made and filed with this
governing body. This audit shall be completed and filed with Town of Hammonton
within four months after the close of the fiscal year of the corporation. A
certified duplicate copy of the audit shall be filed with the Director of the
Division of Local Government Services in the State of New Jersey Department of
Community Affairs within five days of the filing of the audit with this
governing body.
   D.   District Management Corporation. The governing body of Town of
Hammonton hereby designates the Hammonton Revitalization Corporation/MainStreet
Hammonton Program ("District Management Corporation"), a non-profit
corporation, as the District Management Corporation for the District and the
Zone.
      (1)   The District Management Corporation shall be composed of the
members in good standing of the board of directors of the Hammonton
Revitalization Corporation/MainStreet Hammonton Program, plus one elected
member of the Town of Hammonton Council.
      (2)   The District Management Corporation, in addition to acting as an
advisory board to this governing body, shall have the following powers
necessary and requisite to effectuate the purposes of this ordinance:
         (a)   Adopting by-laws for the regulation of its affairs and the
conduct of its business, and prescribing rules, regulations, and policies for
the performance of its functions and duties;
         (b)   Employing such persons as may be required, including an
Executive Director to implement the day-to-day operational activities of the
Corporation, and fixing and paying employee compensation from funds available
to the corporation;
         (c)   Applying for, accepting, and administering and complying with
the requirements respecting an appropriation of funds, or gifts, grants, or
donations of property or money;
         (d)   Making and executing agreements which may be necessary or
convenient to the exercise of the powers and functions of the corporation,
including but not limited to, contracts such as loans or any other agreements
with any persons, firms, corporations, governmental agencies, or entities;
         (e)   Administering and managing its funds and accounts and paying its
own obligations;
         (f)   Borrowing money from private lenders and entities for periods
not to exceed 180 days and from governmental agencies for that or longer
periods;
         (g)   Providing security, sanitation, maintenance and other services
in the district, supplemental to those normally supplied by Town of Hammonton;
         (h)   Undertaking improvements designed to increase safety and
attractiveness of the district to businesses which may locate there or visitors
to the district, including but not limited to litter clean-up and control,
landscaping, façade, signage, and those improvements generally permitted for
pedestrian malls under N.J.S.A. 40:56-66 pursuant to pertinent regulations of
the governing body; and
         (i)   Publicizing the district and the businesses included within the
district's boundaries.
         (j)   Application for and acceptance of funds or loans from the State
of New Jersey, Department of Community Affairs, for Public Improvements and
other Improvements as contemplated and defined by N.J.S.A. 40:56-71.1, et seq.
   E.   Municipal Powers Retained. Notwithstanding the creation of the Downtown
Improvement District, Town of Hammonton expressly retains all of its powers and
authority over the areas designated as within the District.
   F.   Debt Obligations. This ordinance obligates the Town of Hammonton
Downtown Improvement District to satisfy all debts, loans, and financial
liabilities incurred by the corporation. The District and the District
Management Corporation may not borrow an amount that exceeds the ability of the
approved budget for that fiscal year to pay the amount required by the
instruments executed at the time the debt is incurred. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, the Town of Hammonton Council may choose to supplement the revenue
of the Downtown Improvement District in order to enable the District to perform
necessary activities, or to incur debt to carry out those activities.
§ 175-155. Highway Business District.
   A.   The following uses are permitted in the H-B Zoning District:
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989; 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
      (1)   Local retail activities, including but not limited to grocery
stores, meat markets, supermarkets, delicatessens, bakeries, drugstores,
furniture stores, sporting good shops, gift shops, hardware stores, package
liquor stores, pet shops, stationery stores, fabric stores, florists and
jewelry stores, but excluding automobile sales.
      (2)   Local service activities, including but not limited to barber- and
beauty shops, tailors, photographer's studios, retail dry-cleaning and
laundering operations, appliance repair shops, shoe repair shops, upholsterers,
newspaper and/or job print shops and customer service centers.
      (3)   Restaurants, Take-Out Restaurants, bars, taverns and indoor
theaters.
      (4)   Banks, including drive-in facilities.
      (5)   Professional offices limited to doctors, dentists, architects,
engineers, planners, lawyers, real estate agents, insurance brokers or similar
licensed professional uses.
      (6)   Offices and office buildings.
      (7)   Automobile sales, travel trailer and camper sales.
      (8)   Indoor theaters and bowling alleys.
      (9)   Garden centers engaged in the retail sale of plant material,
provided that outside storage, sale or display shall not exceed four times the
building coverage.
      (10)   Shopping centers comprised of the preceding uses.
      (11)   Laboratories of an experimental, research or testing nature which
carry on processes within completely enclosed buildings and which do not
produce noticeable noise, vibration, smoke, dust, odors, heat or glare outside
the buildings.
      (12)   Wholesale distribution centers and warehousing, provided that such
activities are conducted entirely within an enclosed structure.
      (13)   Where the proposed development is proposed on any lot which abuts
or is across a public street from an active agricultural use, the development
shall incorporate a fifty-foot planted buffer or a one-hundred-foot planted
buffer where the property abuts an Agricultural Production (AP) Zone in
accordance with §
175-91 in addition to the required building setback standards. This buffer
shall be required on the property line(s) of the lot which abuts or is across a
public street from the active agricultural use or the Agricultural Production
(AP) Zone. The applicant shall, as a condition of preliminary approval and
prior to filing an application for final approval, place on record a deed
creating a perpetual conservation easement over the buffer area as defined in
this section, where said lot abuts an Agricultural Production (AP) Zone. This
subsection applies to all permitted and conditional uses other than single-
family residential uses on existing lots.
[Added 10-9-1989 by Ord. No. 33-1989; amended 11-27-1989 by Ord. No. 40-1989]
      (14)   Hospitals, as defined in §
175-10, which may include:
         (a)   Emergency departments, outpatient medical offices, diagnostic
services including imaging centers, surgical centers, cancer treatment,
physical therapy, pharmacies, and such educational, clinical, and research
facilities as are integral to the operation of the hospital; and
         (b)   Ancillary and accessory uses such as helipads, employee daycare,
gift shops, cafeteria, coffee shops, administrative and staff offices and
offices for either affiliated or nonaffiliated professionals which are
integrated with the hospital facilities or complex.
[Added 11-15-2004 by Ord. No. 28-2004; amended 3-22-2010 by Ord. No. 3-2010; 6-
19-2017 by Ord. No. 10-2017]
   B.   The following are conditional uses in the H-B Zoning District:
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989; 10-9-1989 by Ord. No. 33-1989; 11-28-
2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
      (1)   Automotive service stations, subject to §
175-124.
      (2)   Funeral parlors.
      (3)   Commercial parking lots.
      (4)   Apartments on the second and third floors of a building used
primarily for nonresidential purposes.
      (5)   Car washes, subject to §
175-124.
      (6)   Hotels and motels, subject to §
175-111.
      (7)    32 Assisted living facilities subject to the following conditions,
provided, however, that the conditional use specified in this subsection shall
pertain only to the following parcels: Block 4601, Lots 22, 22.01, 26, 26.01
and 27; Block 4602, Lots 1, 2, 3, 4, 4.01, 5 and 6; Block 4603, Lots 1, 2, 3, 4
and 5.
[Added 5-21-2007 by Ord. No. 13-2007]
         (a)   Minimum lot size: 75,000 square feet;
         (b)   Minimum lot frontage: 200 feet;
         (c)   Minimum side yard setback: 40 feet;
         (d)   Minimum front yard setback: 65 feet;
         (e)   Minimum rear yard setback: 50 feet;
         (f)   Maximum lot coverage: 75%;
         (g)   Maximum building height for principal structure only: 35 feet
and no more than two stories;
         (h)   Maximum density (number of units/acre): 18 units per acre; and
         (i)   Minimum facility size: 30 units.
   C.   The following are permitted accessory uses in the H-B Zoning District:
[Amended 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
      (1)   Off-street parking, subject to §
175-118.
      (2)   Signs, subject to §
175-161.
      (3)   Fences and walls.
      (4)   Garages to house delivery trucks or other commercial vehicles.
      (5)   Temporary construction trailers and one sign not exceeding 100
square feet advertising the prime contractor, subcontractor, architect,
financing institution or similar data for the period of construction beginning
with the issuance of a construction permit and concluding with the issuance of
a certificate of occupancy or one year, whichever is less, provided that said
trailer and sign are on the site where construction is taking place and set
back at least 15 feet from street and lot lines.
   D.   The following bulk standards shall apply to all uses in the H-B Zoning
District:
[Amended 10-12-1987 by Ord. No. 13-1987; 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
      (1)   Minimum lot size: 50,000 square feet.
      (2)   Minimum lot frontage: 200 feet.
      (3)   Minimum side yard: 40 feet.
      (4)   Minimum front yard setback: 65 feet.
      (5)   Minimum rear yard setback: 50 feet.
      (6)   Maximum coverage: 75%.
      (7)   Maximum building height for principal structure only: 42 feet.
 
Notes
   32.   Editor's Note: Former Subsection B(4), regarding single-family detached
   dwellings, which immediately followed this subsection, was repealed 10-27-2003
   by Ord. No. 24-2003. this article also provided that the provisions shall not
32 apply to existing residential development in the B-2 Zoning District on existing
   lots of record and that existing residential uses in the B-2 Zoning District
   shall continue as permitted conditional uses until such time as the residential
   use is abandoned.
§ 175-156. General requirements for business districts.
   A.   One building may contain more than one use, provided that the total
building coverage of the combined uses and paving does not exceed the maximum
coverage specified for the district, and further that each use occupies a
minimum gross floor area of 500 square feet.
   B.   A shopping center within the H-B Highway Business District may contain
more than one principal building, provided that the total coverage specified
for the district is not exceeded and the following building separation
requirements are met:
[Amended 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
      (1)   All principal buildings shall be separated by a minimum of 25 feet,
provided that such separation is to be used solely for pedestrian circulation.
(NOTE: The separation requirements should not be construed to prohibit covered
pedestrian walkways when the roof or covering of such walkway extends between
the principal buildings.)
      (2)   All principal buildings shall be separated by a minimum of 50 feet
when such separation is to be used for parking or vehicular circulation. (NOTE:
The separation requirements should not be construed to prohibit covered
pedestrian walkways when the roof or covering of such walkway extends between
the principal buildings.)
   C.   At least the first 40 feet adjacent to any street and rear property
line and 15 feet adjacent to any side property line in the H-B District shall
not be used for parking or a drive aisle, except for the entrance drive, and
shall be planted and maintained as a buffer area as stipulated in §
175-91 and separated from the parking area by poured concrete or Belgian block
or other suitable curbing as determined by the Planning Board during site plan
review. This buffer area shall not contain stormwater drainage facilities but
may, if approved by the Planning Board, be swaled to accept a portion of the
site's stormwater runoff.
[Amended 10-12-1987 by Ord. No. 13-1987; 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   D.   No merchandise, products or similar material or objects shall be
displayed or stored outside so as to reasonably obstruct pedestrian access on
any sidewalk. Any use resulting in the storage of vehicles outside shall have
such area entirely enclosed by a fence, wall, plant material or combination
thereof in order to provide a visual barrier between the storage areas and any
street, residential zoning district or existing residential use. Such outside
storage area shall not exceed 30% of the lot area and shall be located in the
rear yard only.
   E.   All buildings shall be compatibly designed, whether constructed all at
one time or in stages over a period of time. All building walls facing any
street or residential district line shall be suitably finished for aesthetic
purposes.
   F.   All areas not utilized for building, parking, loading, access aisles
and driveways or pedestrian walkways shall be suitably landscaped with shrubs,
ground cover, seeding or similar plantings and maintained in good condition. A
buffer area of a minimum width of 50 feet shall be provided in addition to the
building setback requirements within the H-B Highway Business District along
any common property line with a residential district or an existing residential
use which buffer shall be planted according to the standards as set forth in §
175-91.
[Amended 10-12-1987 by Ord. No. 13-1987; 10-9-1989 by Ord. No. 33-1989; 11-28-
2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   G.   Where the commercial development in question is more than 1,000 feet in
depth as measured from the right-of-way line of the roadway upon which it
fronts and where a buffer is required pursuant to Subsection F, the buffer as
set forth in Subsection F shall be of a minimum width of 100 feet in addition
to the building setback requirements for a H-B Zone and shall be planted as set
forth in §
175-91.
[Added 10-9-1989 by Ord. No. 33-1989; 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   H.   All applications for development which fall within the provisions of
Subsections F and G as to required buffer areas shall have as a condition of
preliminary approval a requirement that the applicant shall place on record
prior to applying for final approval a deed creating a perpetual conservation
easement over the required buffer area.
[Added 10-9-1989 by Ord. No. 33-1989]
   I.   Minimum off-street loading in the H-B Highway Business District.
[Amended 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
      (1)   Each non-shopping-center activity shall provide for off-street
loading and unloading with adequate ingress and egress from streets and shall
provide such area(s) at the side or rear of the building. There shall be no
loading or unloading from the street, except during designated business hours.
Loading area requirements may be met by combining the floor areas of several
activities taking place under one roof and applying the above ratios.
      (2)   Shopping centers shall provide sufficient loading areas to
adequately service the activities within the shopping center.
      (3)   There shall be at least one trash and garbage pickup location
provided by each building or in a pickup location outside the building. The
trash and/or garbage shall be stored in a steel-like, totally enclosed
container located in a manner to be obscured from view from parking areas,
streets and adjacent residential uses or zoning districts by a fence, wall,
planting or combination of the three. If located within the building, the
doorway may serve both the loading and trash/garbage functions. If a container
is used for trash/garbage functions and is located outside the building, it may
be located adjacent to or within the general loading area(s), provided that the
container in no way interferes with or restricts loading and unloading
functions.
      (4)   All off-street loading areas shall be lighted.
   J.   No nonresidential use in the Downtown Districts or H-B Highway Business
District shall be located on a parcel of less than one acre unless served by a
centralized wastewater treatment plant.
[Added 6-28-1993 by Ord. No. 13-1993; 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   K.   Individual lots within the H-B Highway Business District may contain
more than one principal use and more than one principal building or structure,
provided that the total lot coverage specified for the district is not
exceeded. Notwithstanding this subsection, shopping centers shall abide by the
building separation requirements set forth in §
175-156B. Any entity that proposes to develop a lot in accordance with this
subsection (§
175-156K), as revised, shall submit a site plan to the Town of Hammonton
Planning Board for review and approval.
[Amended 3-22-2010 by Ord. No. 3-2010; 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
§ 175-157. Industrial Park District.
   A.   The following uses are permitted in the M-1 Zoning District subject to
§
175-120:
      (1)   Manufacturing plants of a type which carry on processes within
completely enclosed buildings, including the manufacture, assembly or treatment
of products from previously prepared materials.
      (2)   Wholesale distribution centers for wholesale sales, storage and
distribution, including building material sales.
      (3)   Laboratories of an experimental, research or testing nature which
carry on processes within completely enclosed buildings.
      (4)   Needle products manufacturing, including cutting, tailoring,
weaving, knitting and yard finishing uses.
      (5)   Wholesale fuel distribution centers, including facilities for bulk
storage.
      (6)   Commercial bakeries and commercial laundries.
      (7)   Offices and office buildings.
      (8)   Banks and banking services and financial institutions.
[Added 11-15-2004 by Ord. No. 27-2004]
   B.   Accessory uses permitted in addition to customary accessory uses.
      (1)   Temporary construction trailers and one sign not exceeding 100
square feet, each advertising the prime contractor, subcontractors, architect,
financing institution and similar data for the period of construction beginning
with the issuance of a construction permit and concluding with the issuance of
a certificate of occupancy or one year, whichever is less, provided that said
trailer(s) and sign are on the site where construction is taking place and are
set back at least 15 feet from any street right-of-way line or property line.
      (2)   Employee cafeterias as part of a principal building or as the
entire use of a principal building, provided that the cafeteria is limited in
service to the employees of the principal use designated on the site plan as
appropriated by the Planning Board.
   C.   Bulk requirements for individual uses.
[Amended 10-12-1987 by Ord. No. 13-1987]
      (1)   Minimum lot area: 80,000 square feet.
      (2)   Minimum lot frontage: 300 feet.
      (3)   Minimum front setback: 100 feet.
      (4)   Minimum side yard: 50 feet.
      (5)   Minimum rear yard: 75 feet.
      (6)   Maximum coverage: 70%.
      (7)   Maximum building height for principal structure only: 42 feet.
   D.   Bulk requirements for industrial parks.
      (1)   Minimum tract size: six acres.
      (2)   Minimum lot size: 65,000 square feet.
      (3)   Minimum lot frontage: 200 feet.
      (4)   Minimum setback: 75 feet; internal: 50 feet.
      (5)   Minimum side yard: 50 feet; internal: 35 feet.
      (6)   Minimum rear yard: 75 feet; internal: 35 feet.
      (7)   Maximum coverage (tract): 75%.
   E.   General requirements.
      (1)   Any principal building may contain more than one use or
organization. Any lot may contain more than one principal building, provided
that the total building coverage specified for the district is not exceeded and
that the following building separation requirements are met:
         (a)   All principal buildings shall be separated by a minimum of 25
feet, provided that such separation is to be used solely for pedestrian
circulation.
         (b)   All principal buildings shall be separated by a minimum of 50
feet when such separation is to be used for parking or vehicular circulation.
      (2)   At least 50 feet adjacent to any exterior street line and 30 feet
adjacent to any exterior lot line shall not be used for parking and shall be
planted and maintained in lawn area, ground cover or landscaped with evergreen
shrubbery and shall be separated from the parking area by poured concrete,
Belgian block or suitable curbing as determined by the Town Engineer and
Planning Board during site plan review.
      (3)   No merchandise, products, waste equipment or similar material or
objects shall be displayed or stored outside except for outdoor storage of
mobile equipment.
      (4)   All portions of the property not utilized by buildings or paved
surfaces shall be landscaped utilizing combinations such as landscaped fencing,
shrubbery, lawn area, ground cover, rock formations, contours, existing foliage
and the planting of conifers and/or deciduous trees native to the area in order
to either maintain or reestablish the tone of the vegetation in the area and
lessen the visual impact of the structures and paved areas. The established
grades on any site shall be planted for both aesthetic and drainage purposes.
The grading plan, drainage facilities and landscaping shall be coordinated to
prevent erosion and silting as well as assuring that the capacity of any
natural or manmade drainage system is sufficient to handle the water generated
and anticipated both from the site and contributing upstream areas.
      (5)   All buildings shall be compatibly designed, whether constructed all
at one time or in stages over a period of time. All building walls facing any
street or residential district line shall be suitably finished for aesthetic
purposes.
      (6)   A minimum buffer area of 100 feet in width shall be provided along
any common property line within a residential district and shall be planted as
stipulated in §
175-91. In those cases where a portion of a lot abuts a public street, a
distance equivalent to the footage between the street center line and the edge
of the street right-of-way shall be deducted from the required buffer width
along that portion.
[Amended 10-12-1987 by Ord. No. 13-1987]
      (7)   Minimum off-street loading.
         (a)   Each activity shall provide for off-street loading and unloading
with adequate ingress and egress from streets and provide such areas at the
side or rear of the building. Each space shall be at least 15 feet by 40 feet,
and one space shall be provided for every 8,000 square feet of gross floor area
or fraction thereof in each building. There shall be no loading or unloading
from the street.
         (b)   Loading area requirements may be met by combining the floor
areas of several activities taking place under one roof and applying the above
ratios.
         (c)   There shall be at least one trash and garbage pickup location
provided by each building which shall be separated from the parking spaces by
either a location within the building or in a pickup location outside the
building. The trash and/or garbage shall be stored in a steel-like, totally
enclosed container located in a manner to be obscured from view from parking
areas, streets and adjacent residential uses or zoning districts by a fence,
wall, planting or combination of the three. If located within the building the
doorway may serve both the loading and trash/garbage functions. If a container
is used for trash/garbage functions and is located outside the building, it may
be located adjacent to or within the general loading area(s), provided that the
container in no way interferes with or restricts loading and unloading
functions.
         (d)   All off-street loading areas shall be lighted.
      (8)   Where the proposed development is proposed on any lot which abuts
or is across a public street from an active agricultural use, the development
shall incorporate a fifty-foot planted buffer or a one-hundred-foot planted
buffer where the property abuts an Agricultural Production (AP) Zone in
accordance with §
175-91 in addition to the required building setback standards. This buffer
shall be required on the property line(s) of the lot which abuts or is across a
public street from the active agricultural use or the AP Zone. The applicant
shall, as a condition of preliminary approval and prior to filing an
application for final approval, place on record a deed creating a perpetual
conservation easement over the buffer area as defined in this section, where
said lot abuts an AP Zone.
[Added 11-27-1989 by Ord. No. 40-1989]
      (9)   No nonresidential use in the M-1 District shall be located on a
parcel of less than one acre unless served by a centralized wastewater
treatment plant.
[Added 6-28-1993 by Ord. No. 13-1993]
§ 175-158. Multi-Use District.
[Amended 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   A.   The following uses are permitted in the M-2 Zoning District:
      (1)   Single-family detached/two-family dwellings and nonresidential uses
as permitted in the R-1 Zoning District.
[Amended 9-28-2009 by Ord. No. 15-2009]
      (2)    33 Offices, office buildings and retail and service uses, subject
to the following:
[Amended 10-12-1987 by Ord. No. 13-1987]
         (a)   Minimum lot size: 10,000 square feet.
         (b)   Minimum lot width: 75 feet.
         (c)   Minimum front yard setback: 20 feet.
         (d)   Minimum side yard: 10 feet.
         (e)   Minimum rear yard: 20 feet.
         (f)   Maximum coverage: 75%.
         (g)   Maximum height: 30 feet.
         (h)   A planted twenty-foot buffer, as stipulated in §
175-91, shall be provided in addition to the required building setbacks when
the site abuts a residential use.
      (3)   Light industrial uses permitted in the AP/CLI Zoning District
subject to the bulk requirements for individual uses for District M-1.
[Amended 10-12-1987 by Ord. No. 13-1987]
   B.   The following are conditional uses in the M-2 District:
      (1)   Mixed use projects consisting of certain residential, i.e., single-
family attached and multifamily units, commercial and office uses, subject to
the following:
         (a)   Bulk requirements.
[Amended 10-12-1987 by Ord. No. 13-1987]
            [1]   Minimum tract size: three acres.
            [2]   Minimum frontage: 150 feet.
            [3]   Minimum building setback from tract perimeter: 25 feet,
planted as stipulated in §
175-91.
            [4]   Maximum coverage: 60%.
            [5]   Maximum height: 35 feet.
         (b)   Distance requirements.
[Amended 10-12-1987 by Ord. No. 13-1987]
            [1]   Residential buildings shall conform to the distance
requirements for similar uses in the RR Zoning Districts.
            [2]   A nonresidential or mixed use building shall in no case be
located closer to another building than 30 feet or the height of the building,
whichever is greater.
         (c)   Maximum density shall be four units per acre for single-family
attached units and multifamily units. In no event may any of the units contain
more than two bedrooms.
[Amended 10-12-1987 by Ord. No. 13-1987; 12-27-1999 by Ord. No. 35-1999]
         (d)   Nonresidential use may comprise 25% of the total floor area of
the project with no reduction in total units required. Nonresidential use may
be increased to 50% of the total floor area only through a reduction in units
as follows: 1 dwelling unit shall be eliminated for every 1,000 square feet of
nonresidential use over the twenty-five-percent base. (A three-acre parcel may
include 36 attached dwellings at 1,200 square feet each and, therefore, 10,800
square feet of nonresidential use. The maximum nonresidential use would be
21,600 square feet with 26 dwellings.)
         (e)   All open areas shall be suitably landscaped and shall include
appropriate recreational facilities, both active and passive.
         (f)   The design of the development shall include safe, convenient and
attractive pedestrian access as follows:
            [1]   Between the tract's residential uses and the tract's
nonresidential uses.
            [2]   Between the tract's uses and off-site commercial
opportunities.
            [3]   Between the tract's uses and off-site existing or proposed
mass transit opportunities and community facilities.
         (g)   This section has been designed to permit maximum flexibility to
applicants in the design of a unique type of development. The Board shall
review all plans with the view to providing the Town of Hammonton with the best
feasible project in terms of economic, social and aesthetic impacts. All
elements in §§
175-62,
175-63,
175-91,
175-92 and
175-150B(4) and other relevant sections shall be part of such evaluation.
[Amended 10-12-1987 by Ord. No. 13-1987]
   C.   No nonresidential use in the M-2 District shall be located on a parcel
of less than one acre unless served by a centralized wastewater treatment
plant.
[Added 6-28-1993 by Ord. No. 13-1993]
   D.   Additional permitted use. Within the M-2 District, age-restricted
affordable housing pursuant to and in compliance with N.J.A.C. 5:93-1 et seq.
shall be a permitted use. A density of 10 residential age-restricted units per
acre shall be permitted, provided that the property is served by a centralized
wastewater treatment plan. With the exception of specific units made available
to on-site building superintendents, all residential units built pursuant to
this subsection shall be age-restricted and affordable.
[Added 11-15-1999 by Ord. No. 24-1999  34  ]
   E.   The M2A District is hereby designated as Lot 1 in Block 2605. The M2A
District shall exclusively permit age-restricted affordable housing pursuant to
and in compliance with N.J.A.C. 5:93-1 et seq. A density of 10 residential age-
restricted units per acre shall be permitted, provided that the property is
served by a centralized wastewater treatment plant. With the exception of
specific units made available to on-site building superintendents, all
residential units built pursuant to this subsection shall be age-restricted and
affordable.
[Added 11-15-1999 by Ord. No. 24-1999  35  ]
   F.   Age-restricted affordable housing in the M-2 zone shall be subject to
the following bulk requirements:
[Added 11-15-1999 by Ord. No. 24-1999  36  ]
      (1)   Minimum tract size: two acres.
      (2)   Minimum frontage: 150 feet.
      (3)   Minimum building setback from tract perimeter: feet.  37  
      (4)   Maximum coverage: 60%.
      (5)   Maximum height: 35 feet.
 
Notes
33 33.   Editor's Note: Former Subsection A(2), regarding single-family attached/
   multifamily dwelling units, was repealed 12-27-1999 by Ord. No. 35-1999.
   34.   Editor's Note: Section 3 of this article also provided that "Residential
34 buildings shall also conform to the distance requirements for similar uses in the
   R-3 Zoning Districts."
   35.   Editor's Note: Section 3 of this article also provided that "Residential
35 buildings shall also conform to the distance requirements for similar uses in the
   R-3 Zoning Districts."
   36.    Editor's Note: Section 3 of this article also provided that "Residential
36 buildings shall also conform to the distance requirements for similar uses in the
   R-3 Zoning Districts."
37 37.   Editor's Note: This subsection was included as adopted by the Town of
   Hammonton.
§ 175-158.1. Inclusionary Development Zone.
[Added 12-19-2016 by Ord. No. 012-2016]
   A.   Purpose and intent.
      1.   The Town of Hammonton recognizes the need for affordable housing
that can be offered as rentals for the target population who require smaller,
more reasonably priced accommodations such as one-, two- and three-bedroom
living facilities. It is the intent of this section to create a realistic
opportunity for the construction of a portion of the low- and moderate-income
housing obligation of the Town of Hammonton under New Jersey's Fair Housing
Act, N.J.S.A. 52:27D-301 et seq.; the rules of the New Jersey Council on
Affordable Housing, N.J.A.C. 5:93-1 et seq. (the "Rules"); and the Mount Laurel
Doctrine.
      2.   This section shall apply specifically to the existing rental
development along 12th Street (Route 54) on Block 1201, Lots 5 & 5.01 (the
"Property"), as shown on the concept plan prepared by Duffy Dolcy McManus &
Roesch, dated October 15, 2015 ("Concept Plan"), attached as Exhibit "A".
      3.   This section acknowledges that 52 apartments currently exist on the
property, and that it is the intent of this section to control development on
the property for an additional 84 rental units (as defined herein) for a total
no greater than 136 rental units. This section creates a IDZ implementing the
Concept Plan referenced above, designed to increase an existing rental
development to a total of up to 136 rental units, with a 15% set-aside of any
new units that are constructed to be designated as affordable rentals that will
be governed by controls on affordability that will terminate in accordance with
the applicable Uniform Housing Affordability Controls, N.J.A.C. 5:80-26.1 et
seq. ("UHAC") requirements and the Rules.
   B.   General provisions. Because this section provides specialized
regulations for housing types, land use, improvements, site planning, and
building design within the IDZ, the standards and requirements of this section
supersede and replace all conflicting provisions in the Town of Hammonton
Developmental Ordinance and Zoning Ordinance, except for the stormwater
management regulations found in Article XVII, the air quality, fire management,
fish and wildlife, historic and cultural preservation, water quality, and
wetlands regulations found in Article XII and Pinelands Development Credit
regulations found in Article XIII of the Town of Hammonton Land Development
Ordinance. Specifically, the following provisions of the Town of Hammonton
Development Ordinances are applicable to the IDZ Zone: 1) Article XVII; 2) §
175-89(B)(1); 3) §
175-107(A); and 4) §
175-145(E)(12)(a). All ordinances of the Town of Hammonton that are
inconsistent with the provisions of this section are superseded by the
provisions of this section.
   C.   Permitted uses. The following uses are permitted in the IDZ Zoning
District.
      1.   All uses permitted in the H-B Highway Business Zoning District.
      2.   Dwelling Unit/Apartment, Multiple -Family.
   D.   Accessory uses. The following accessory uses are permitted in the IDZ
Zoning District.
      1.   All accessory uses permitted in the H-B Highway Business Zoning
District.
      2.   In multi-family development, accessory uses may include:
         a.   Private, passive or active recreational facilities, including,
but not limited to, a community building.
         b.   Stormwater facilities.
         c.   Signage subject to §
175-161(D)(4).
         d.   Fences and hedges subject to §§
175-98 and
175-137.
         e.   Parking subject to the New Jersey Residential Site Improvements
Standards ("RSIS").
         f.   Other accessory uses and structures normally considered
incidental to apartment and/or multifamily buildings, i.e., refuse enclosures,
sheds for maintenance equipment and HVAC units.
         g.   Except as set forth herein, all accessory uses and structures
shall be permitted within the setback areas for principal buildings and comply
with §
175-87.
   E.   Signs. Signs for the multi-family residential development shall conform
to §
175-161D(4), except that sign setbacks shall be no less than 15 feet from a
right of way.
   F.   Bulk standards related to non-residential development shall be the same
as those established in the H-B Highway Business Zoning District.
   G.   Bulk standards related to multi-family residential development:
      1.   Maximum residential density. 12 dwelling units per gross acre. This
section acknowledges that there are currently 52 existing apartment units on
the property. The maximum number of new units permissible in the zone is 84
units. The total maximum number of all units shall be no greater than 136
units.
      2.   Maximum impervious coverage: 75%
      3.   Minimum front yard setback for principal buildings: 65 feet
      4.   Minimum side yard setback for principal buildings: 40 feet
      5.   Minimum rear yard setback for principal buildings: 20 feet
      6.   Minimum parking setback: 10 feet (between buildings and parking
areas)
      7.   Maximum building height: 45 feet or 3 stories
      8.   Minimum space between buildings: No building shall be closer than 50
feet to any other building.
      9.   Common open space. 15% of the gross tract area. All common open
space shall be set aside as permanent common open space to be owned and/or
maintained by the property owners or the management entity of the multifamily
buildings.
      10.   Recreation area. A clubhouse or community building with a minimum
size of 2,800 sf. and a tot lot shall be provided. Additional recreational
activities may be provided. All recreational activities shall be subordinated
to the residential character of the development, and no advertising shall be
permitted. Architectural elevations and floor plans shall be provided at the
time of application for site plan review for the clubhouse or community
building.
      11.   On-site parking and site access.
         a.   Parking shall be regulated by New Jersey Residential Site
Improvement Standards (RSIS).
         b.   On-site parking facilities shall be limited to passenger vehicles
of permanent residents and their guests. Storage of trucks, boats, trailers,
etc., shall be prohibited.
         c.   Design controls applicable for on-site parking facilities are set
forth in the site plan and subdivision regulations found in §
175-118 except that in order to maintain the character of the existing
community curbing is not required.
         d.   Sidewalks shall be provided to reasonably connect the residential
units to the parking area and shall be consistent with the Concept Plan.
         e.   A secondary ingress/egress shall be provided on Commence Way.
         f.   Community Building. Parking spaces shall be no closer than five
feet to the building. The drive aisle shall be no closer than 15 feet to the
street line except for the access driveway.
      12.   Landscaping. Landscaping shall conform to §
175-136.
      13.   Lighting. Lighting shall conform to §
175-112, which includes the requirement to design lighting to prevent glare
upon surrounding properties.
      14.   Refuse storage. The refuse storage areas shall be suitably located
and screened and arranged for access and ease of collection and shall not be
part of, restrict or occupy any parking aisle. Refuse storage structures may be
erected in the side and rear yard areas only, and the required setback shall be
1/2 that required for principal buildings.
      15.   Buffer. The buffer area shall be provided in accordance with the
requirements of §
175-91, except that storm drainage facilities may be located within the buffer
area. The buffers shall be located along all side and rear lot lines. The width
of the buffer shall be a minimum of 20 feet.
      16.   Building Design. The design of the new buildings and units shall be
similar in appearance and style as the rendering attached as Exhibit "B".
      17.   Affordable Housing Requirements.
         a.   Fifteen percent (15%) of all new units constructed shall be
provided as affordable housing units. The affordable housing units shall be
constructed as rentals.
         b.   Affordable units shall comply with the New Jersey Barrier-Free
Subcode accessibility requirements, N.J.A.C. 5:23.7, as required by the New
Jersey Fair Housing Act, N.J.S.A. 52:27D-301, et seq.
         c.   The affordable housing units shall be developed and rented in
accordance with the applicable UHAC and COAH regulations adopted as of the date
of the adoption of this section.
         d.   The affordable housing units shall be dispersed in various
buildings throughout the multi-family development. The affordable units shall
be phased consistent with N.J.A.C. 5:93-5.6(d).
         e.   Consistent with UHAC, the developer (or its agent) may act as the
administrative agent to be responsible for the administering of the affordable
housing program and reporting to the Municipal Housing Liaison or the Town's
designated affordable housing entity.
         f.   Controls on affordability shall expire in accordance with the
applicable UHAC and COAH regulations adopted as of the date of the adoption of
this section.
   H.   Rehabilitation requirements for existing five buildings.
      1.   In conjunction with the new construction of the multi-family
residential development contemplated under this section provision, the five
existing multi-family residential buildings shall be rehabilitated to conform
as much as practicable in light of the requirement for the elimination of cost-
generative features. The rehabilitation of the existing buildings shall be
phased with the new construction. For purposes of this section, rehabilitation
shall mean cosmetic and architectural design features to the existing buildings
exterior that complement the new construction style. The five existing
buildings after rehabilitation shall look substantially similar to the
elevation attached hereto as Exhibit "C".
      2.   The existing five buildings on the property shall be rehabilitated
in accordance with the following phasing schedule:
 
New Building Certificate of Occupancy  Required Completion of Rehabilitation of
(CO) Issued                            Existing Five Buildings
Building #1                            0
Building #2                            1 of the existing buildings completed
Building #3                            3 of the existing buildings completed
Building #4                            5 of the existing buildings completed
 
      A Certificate of Occupancy shall not be issued for any of the new
buildings constructed unless and until the corresponding number of existing
buildings, in accordance with the chart above, have been completely
rehabilitated. Notwithstanding the foregoing, deviations from the phasing
schedule shall be permitted upon application to the Planning Board for good
cause, so long as the rehabilitation of the existing buildings is completed
before the last Certificate of Occupancy is issued for the new construction.
   I.   Cost-Generation and Development Review Process. The Planning Board
shall conduct its review of any multi-family residential development
application in the IDZ Zoning District in accordance with N.J.A.C. 5:93-10 et
seq.
§ 175-159. Recreation Zone.
[Added 12-14-1998 by Ord. No. 30-1998]
   A.   The following uses are permitted in the REC Recreation Zoning District:
      (1)   Active and passive public recreation facilities, including but not
limited to athletic fields, tennis courts, basketball courts, swimming pools,
bike trails, street hockey rinks, skating facilities and nature trails, and
associated community centers.
      (2)   Public playgrounds, conservation areas and parks.
      (3)   Golf courses, miniature golf and golf driving ranges.
   B.   The following are permitted accessory uses in the REC Recreation Zoning
District:
      (1)   Fences and walls.
      (2)   Signs, subject to §
175-161.
      (3)   Off-street parking, subject to §
175-118.
   C.   The following bulk standards shall apply to all uses in the REC
Recreation Zoning District:
      (1)   Minimum lot size: 10 acres.
      (2)   Maximum height: 35 feet.
§ 175-160. Building Types.
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011; amended 6-17-2019 by Ord. No. 14-2019]
   A.   General standards for any new construction or building addition in each
Downtown District:
      (1)   Bulk.
         (a)   New structures shall be designed in sections between 15 feet and
35 feet in width along the street frontage. Sections can be expressed through
architecturally articulated bays, variations in setback , window patterns,
changes in material, and other similarly effective techniques. Minor variations
may be considered to adjust for lot frontage and lot geometry.
         (b)   Eave lines and roof lines shall vary between building sections
in height or setback from the street.
         (c)   The maximum length of a horizontal facade or side wall without
relief shall be 100 feet in Downtown Districts. Relief can be expressed as
setbacks, open space passages between buildings, recessed courtyards or
similarly significant architectural breaks to reduce the length of continuous
horizontal facades or side walls.
         (d)   The maximum length of any roofline in Downtown Districts shall
be 60 feet. In cases where individual buildings are longer than 60 feet, the
roofline shall be set back a minimum of 15 feet for 15 to 35 feet of the facade
length beyond the 60- foot roofline.
         (e)   Three-story structures shall differentiate between the ground
level and upper levels, in addition to the third floor setback, using setbacks,
changes in materials, bands or other linear ornamentation.
         (f)   Connected assemblages of multiple buildings, such as townhomes,
shall be no greater than 175 feet without a break for a side yard setback as
required by that building type.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2754.jpg]
 
      (2)   Building heights.
         (a)   Building heights shall be measured in both stories and feet.
         (b)   The ground story of a building is the first floor of a building
that is level to or elevated above grade. The upper stories of a building begin
at the first floor above the ground story. Building types constructed with
pitched roofs with dormers have regulations that allow an additional story, if
located within the roof structure.
         (c)   When measuring by feet, building heights shall be measured to
both the eave line and roof line, for buildings with pitched roofs, and to the
roof line for all other buildings.
         (d)   For sloped sites, the grade level shall be measured from the
average point of the slope on any side of the building perimeter that includes
an entrance to the structure.
         (e)   Ornamental tower elements associated with religious institutions
are exempt from maximum building height requirements.
      (3)   Doors and windows.
         (a)   All buildings shall include front doors and windows facing the
street: no blank walls are permitted facing the street at the ground story.
         (b)   The minimum area of window and door openings on any wall shall
be 30% of the area of the wall. For commercial uses or walls facing streets,
the glazed area must be greater than 70% with a maximum sill height of 2' 6"
above sidewalk grade.
         (c)   Side walls that face public ways, or which are set back a
minimum of five feet from a lot line, must have windows and may have doors.
         (d)   Every street-facing ground-level business and residence must
have a separate entry. Live-work buildings must have one total entrance.
Buildings located on the corner parcel of any block are encouraged to place
primary entrances on secondary streets or at the corner.
      (4)   Driveways.
         (a)   Parking shall be accessed by rear alleys or rear lanes where
available. Parking pads and garages that must be accessed from the front of a
lot should be located at the rear of the lot.
         (b)   Driveway width at the access point shall be a minimum of 12 feet
between the front lot line and the front facade of the building. The maximum
width shall be 15 feet for one lane and 25 feet for a two lane driveway. In the
case of state highways, the provisions of the current New Jersey State Highway
Access Code shall apply.
         (c)   Shared driveways between two properties, which minimize curb
cuts and impervious surfaces, are permitted. This shall be accomplished by
initiating an irrevocable offer of cross-easement between the abutting
properties. The owners of the involved properties shall submit, with their
application for special exception, a site plan showing joint use and location
of the shared driveway.
      (5)   Porches, stoops, and other encroachments.
         (a)   Porches shall be no less than six feet deep. Front porches, not
including steps from the porch to a walkway at grade, may extend up to 10 feet
into front yards, provided they are no closer than four feet to any property
line.
         (b)   These dimensions also apply to porches facing corner lot lines.
         (c)   Stoops may encroach into the front setback area of cottage
houses, single houses, townhouses, and twins if their highest point is not
higher than 42 inches above sidewalk level.
         (d)   Other encroachments, such as bay windows, balconies, or
colonades shall provide a minimum of eight feet of clearance over a public
sidewalk or right of way. Encroachments shall also be no greater than 16 feet
in width and two feet in depth.
         (e)   Overhanging encroachments may go beyond the property line only
into the public right-of-way, not into an adjoining property. Easements are
required for any encroachment into public right-of-way.
      (6)   Frontage.
         (a)   In downtown zones, at least 50% of the building's front facade
at ground level must be located along the front setback line. Buildings in D4
must have a frontage percentage of at least 75%.
      (7)   Entrances.
         (a)   The main entrance of every building must directly face a street
or a civic space. The residential or office component of a downtown building
with ground-floor retail frontage may be located to the rear or side of the
building if all setback requirements are followed.
         (b)   Every street-facing ground-level business and residence should
have a separate entry.
      (8)   Ground floor elevation.
         (a)   For buildings with retail uses, the ground floor should be at
sidewalk level. If the ground floor use is not retail, the floor level may be
elevated if access is not restricted according to ADA requirements.
      (9)   Story heights.
         (a)   The ground floor floor-to-floor height of any building with
commercial or mixed uses shall be no more than 18 feet tall. Buildings that are
primarily residential or live-work shall have a ground floor floor-to-floor
height of no more than 14 feet tall.
         (b)   Each story above the ground story must have a floor-to-floor
height of eight to 12 feet. Top stories must have a floor-to-floor height of
eight to 12 feet tall as measured from the finished floor level to the bottom
of the structure above.
      (10)   Single-story buildings.
         (a)   Ground-story residential use in one-story buildings is limited
to the single family detached house and cottage house types, as well as
accessory buildings or structures where residential use is permitted.
      (11)   HVAC.
         (a)   HVAC equipment shall not be visible from streets or public
parks.
      (12)   Parking.
         (a)   Parking as a sole primary use shall not be permitted unless the
facility (lot or structure) is publicly owned.
         (b)   All parking for residential development shall be in accordance
with Residential Site Improvement Standards ("RSIS").
         (c)   All non-residential parking shall be in accordance with the Town
of Hammonton Land Development Code, Institute of Transportation Engineers
Parking Generation Manual or alternative documented sources.
         (d)   The parking spaces required may be reduced when two or more
establishments share the same parking area, whether on the same lot or abutting
lots. Shared parking or offsite parking strategies are described in §
175-118.
      (13)   Agricultural buffers.
         (a)   Where the proposed building type is proposed on any lot which
abuts or is across a public street from an active agricultural use, the
development shall incorporate a 50-foot planted buffer or a 100-foot planted
buffer where the property abuts an Agricultural Production (AP) Zone in
accordance with §
175-91 in addition to the required building setback standards. This buffer
shall be required on the property line(s) of the lot which abuts or is across a
public street from the active agricultural use or the Agricultural Production
(AP) Zone. The applicant shall, as a condition of preliminary approval and
prior to filing an application for final approval, place on record a deed
creating a perpetual conservation easement over the buffer area as defined in
this section, where said lot abuts an Agricultural Production (AP) Zone. This
subsection applies to all permitted and conditional uses other than single-
family residential uses on existing lots.
      (14)   Upper floor residence.
         (a)   Dwelling units on the second and third floors of buildings used
primarily for non-residential purposes. No more than six upper floor residences
shall be allowed in one building.
   B.   Permitted building types for Downtown Districts and Gateway Districts.
      (1)   General. Allowable building types are defined for each Downtown
District and Gateway District in §
175-160. A single building may host more than one use.
      (2)   Allowable building types. The allowable building types for Downtown
Districts and Gateway Districts are:
         •   Apron Shopfront (see §
175-160.B.(5))
         •   Box Building (see §
175-160.B.(6))
         •   Civic Building (see §
175-160.B.(7))
         •   Cottage House (see §
175-160.B.(8))
         •   Downtown Building (see §
175-160.B.(9))
         •   Liner Building (see §
175-160.B.(10))
         •   Live/Work Building (see §
175-160.B.(11))
         •   Loft Building (see §
175-160.B.(12))
         •   Pad Commerce (see §
175-160.B.(13))
         •   Podium Building (see §
175-160.B.(14))
         •   Single House (see §
175-160.B.(15))
         •   Special Industry (see §
175-160.B.(16))
         •   Strip Commerce (see §
175-160.B.(17))
         •   Townhouse (see §
175-160.B.(18))
         •   Twin House (see §
175-160.B.(19))
         •   Accessory Structure (see §
175-160.B.(20))
      (3)   Building types across zone boundaries. Building types should be
selected so that buildings of compatible scale and arrangement relate front-to-
front across streets and district boundaries or side-to-side across lot lines.
Building types of contrasting scale and arrangement are best placed back-to-
back, with alleys or rear lot lines acting as transitions.
      (4)   Permitted building types by district. The permitted building types
for each Downtown District and Gateway District are summarized in Figure 160B
below. For allowable uses in each building type, by district, see "Permitted
Uses" charts in §
175-154.1 through §
175-154.7.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2756.jpg]
 
      (5)   Apron shopfront. Apron shopfront buildings are typically commercial
properties which have been converted from existing single family homes. The
"apron" is created when commercial design elements are added to the ground
floor space between the original structure and sidewalk. This evolution allows
a property owner to add or increase commercial floor area and street presence
without demolishing an existing structure. Some ground floor area can remain as
residential space or as access to residential space above, as long as
commercial and residential uses have separate, dedicated entrances.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2758.jpg]
 
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2760.jpg]
 
[c]   Specifications.
                                                  [AS]
                                                  Apron Shopfront
1.   Lot Width (max for DT4 / all other        50 ft / no max
districts)
2.   Lot Depth (max)                           125 ft, except if in DT2 Zone
                                                  then no max
3.   Footprint Area (min/max)                  1,000 / 2,000 sq ft
4.   Building Width (min/max)                  25 / 50 ft
                                           DT1    –           GW1 –
                                           DT2    90% incl. ex. GW2 –
                                                  bldg.
5.   Lot Coverage (max %)               DT3    90% incl. ex. GW3 –
                                                  bldg.
                                           DT4    90% incl. ex.    –
                                                  bldg.
                                           DT1    –           GW1 –
6.   Lot Size (min)                     DT2    10,000 sf     GW2 –
                                           DT3    2,500 sf      GW3 –
                                           DT4    800 sf           –
                                           DT1    –           GW1 –
              A.   Front (min/max)      DT2    5 ft / no max GW2 –
                                           DT3    3 ft/ no max  GW3 –
                                           DT4    0 / 0 ft         –
                                           DT1    –           GW1 –
              B.   Side (min/max)       DT2    0 ft / no max GW2 –
                                           DT3    0 ft / no max GW3 –
                                           DT4    0 / 10 ft        –
                                           DT1    –           GW1 –
7.   Setbacks                           DT2    rear wall of  GW2 –
                                                  ex. bldg.
              C.   Rear (min/max)       DT3    rear wall of  GW3 –
                                                  ex. bldg.
                                           DT4    rear wall of     –
                                                  ex. bldg.
                                           DT1    –           GW1 –
              D.   Corner Setback (min/ DT2    10 ft / no    GW2 –
              max)                                max
                                           DT3    5 ft / no max GW3 –
                                           DT4    0 / 10 ft        –
 
                                                 DT1 –        GW1 –
                                                 DT2 1 / 12 - 1 GW2 –
             A.   Stories / Height                / 12
             in Feet (min-max)                   DT3 1 / 12 - 1 GW3 –
                                                     / 12
8.   Height                                   DT4 1 / 12 - 1    –
                                                     / 12
                                                 DT1 –        GW1 –
             B.   Height of first story (min/ DT2 9 / 12 ft  GW2 –
             max)                                DT3 9 / 12 ft  GW3 –
                                                 DT4 9 / 12 ft     –
             A.   Location                        Rear
                                                     Adjacent Lot. This access
                                                     requirement shall be
                                                     satisfied if the owner of
                                                     the subject property
             B.   Access, Mid Block Lot           enters into a parking and/
                                                     or access easement with
                                                     the adjacent lot owner
                                                     which allows access to the
9.   Parking                                      subject property.
                                                     Adjacent Lot or Side
                                                     Street. This access
                                                     requirement shall be
                                                     satisfied if the owner of
             C.   Access, Corner Lot              the subject property
                                                     enters into a parking and/
                                                     or access easement with
                                                     the adjacent lot owner
                                                     which allows access to the
                                                     subject property.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3209.png]
 
      (6)   Box building. A large, free-standing building type, generally with
a flat roof covering a single floor of one single use. Box buildings can be
completely or partially circumnavigated by automobile within their own lot.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2764.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2766.jpg]
 
      (7)   Civic building. A building that contains public or civic uses of
special significance to residents, employees, or visitors. Civic buildings are
used for the following purposes: community services, day care, education,
government, places of worship, or social services. Civic buildings do not
include retail buildings, residential buildings, or buildings with private
offices.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2769.jpg]
 
[c]   Specifications.
                                                   [CB]
                                                   Civic Building
1.   Lot Width (max)                         no max.
2.   Lot Depth (max)                         155 ft
3.   Footprint Area (min/max)                no min / 9,000 sq ft
4.   Building Width (min/max)                no min / 100 ft
                                            DT1 70%            GW1 –
5.   Lot Coverage (max %)                DT2 70%            GW2 –
                                            DT3 80%            GW3 –
                                            DT4 –               –
                                            DT1 10,000 sf      GW1 –
6.   Lot Size (min)                      DT2 10,000 sf      GW2 –
                                            DT3 2,500 sf       GW3 –
                                            DT4 –               –
                                            DT1 20 ft / no max GW1 –
              A.   Front (min/max)       DT2 20 ft / no max GW2 –
                                            DT3 10 ft/ no max  GW3 –
                                            DT4 –               –
                                            DT1 10 ft / no max GW1 –
              B.   Side (min/max)        DT2 10 ft / no max GW2 –
                                            DT3 0 ft / no max  GW3 –
7.   Setbacks                            DT4 –               –
                                            DT1 30 ft / no max GW1 –
              C.   Rear (min/max)        DT2 20 ft / no max GW2 –
                                            DT3 0 ft / no max  GW3 –
                                            DT4 –               –
                                            DT1 10 ft / no max GW1 –
              D.   Corner Setback (min/maDT2 10 ft / no max GW2 –
                                            DT3 0 ft / no max  GW3 –
                                            DT4 –               –
 
                                                 DT1 1 / 35 - 2 GW1 –
                                                     / 35
             A.   Stories / Height            DT2 1 / 35 - 2 GW2 –
             in Feet (min-max)                       / 35
                                                 DT3 2 / 35 - 3 GW3 –
8.   Height                                       / 35
                                                 DT4 –           –
                                                 DT1 12 / 18 ft GW1 –
             B.   Height of first story (min/ DT2 12 / 18 ft GW2 –
             max)                                DT3 12 / 18 ft GW3 –
                                                 DT4 –           –
             A.   Location                        Rear, Side
                                                     Along Side Property Line,
                                                     Adjacent Lot. This access
                                                     requirement shall be
                                                     satisfied if the owner of
             B.   Access, Mid Block Lot           the subject property
                                                     enters into a parking and/
                                                     or access easement with
                                                     the adjacent lot owner
                                                     which allows access to the
9.   Parking                                      subject property.
                                                     Adjacent Lot or Side
                                                     Street. This access
                                                     requirement shall be
                                                     satisfied if the owner of
             C.   Access, Corner Lot              the subject property
                                                     enters into a parking and/
                                                     or access easement with
                                                     the adjacent lot owner
                                                     which allows access to the
                                                     subject property.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3211.png]
 
      (8)   Cottage house. A variant of the single family detached house, with
a lower allowable height and smaller side and front setbacks. It is intended
for smaller lots and to be occupied by residential use, although some may be
converted to small shops or galleries.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2773.jpg]
 
                                                [CH]
                                                Cottage House
1.   Lot Width (max)                         no max
2.   Lot Depth (max)                         120 ft
3.   Footprint Area (min/max)                800 / 1,500 sq ft
4.   Building Width (min/max)                20 / 35 ft
                                            DT1 50%            GW1 –
5.   Lot Coverage (max %)                DT2 50%            GW2 –
                                            DT3 50%            GW3 –
                                            DT4 –               –
                                            DT1 10,000 sf      GW1 –
6.   Lot Size (min)                      DT2 10,000 sf      GW2 –
                                            DT3 10,000 sf      GW3 –
                                            DT4 –               –
                                            DT1 15 ft / no max GW1 –
              A.   Front (min/max)       DT2 10 ft / no max GW2 –
                                            DT3 3 ft/ no max   GW3 –
                                            DT4 –               –
                                            DT1 5 ft / no max  GW1 –
              B.   Side (min/max)        DT2 5 ft / no max  GW2 –
                                            DT3 3 ft / no max  GW3 –
7.   Setbacks                            DT4 –               –
                                            DT1 10 ft / no max GW1 –
              C.   Rear (min/max)        DT2 10 ft / no max GW2 –
                                            DT3 10 ft / no max GW3 –
                                            DT4 –               –
                                            DT1 5 ft / no max  GW1 –
              D.   Corner Setback (min/maDT2 5 ft / no max  GW2 –
                                            DT3 3 ft / no max  GW3 –
                                            DT4 –               –
 
                                                 DT1 –        GW1 –
                                                 DT2 1 / 24 - 2 GW2 –
             A.   Stories / Height                / 24
             in Feet (min-max)                   DT3 1 / 24 - 2 GW3 –
                                                     / 24
8.   Height                                   DT4 1 / 24 - 2    –
                                                     / 24
                                                 DT1 –        GW1 –
             B.   Height of first story (min/ DT2 9 / 12 ft  GW2 –
             max)                                DT3 9 / 12 ft  GW3 –
                                                 DT4 9 / 12 ft     –
             A.   Location                        Side or Read yard
9.   ParkiB.   Access, Mid Block Lot           Front, Shared Drive or
                                                     Rear Alley
             C.   Access, Corner Lot              Side Street or Rear Alley
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3213.png]
 
      (9)   Downtown building. A multi-story building with multiple dwellings
or offices in upper stories and retail or office uses on the ground floor.
Residential uses may not be placed on the ground floor. Often, these buildings
have common walls on one or both side lot lines.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2777.jpg]
 
                                                  [DB]
                                                  Downtown Building
1.   Lot Width (max for DT4 / all other        100 ft / no max
districts)
2.   Lot Depth (max)                           120 ft
3.   Footprint Area (min/max)                  no min / 7,000 sq ft
4.   Building Width (min/max)                  no min / 100 ft
                                           DT1    –          GW1 –
5.   Lot Coverage (max %)               DT2    75%          GW2 –
                                           DT3    90%          GW3 75%
                                           DT4    100%            –
                                           DT1    –          GW1 –
6.   Lot Size (min)                     DT2    10,000 sf    GW2 –
                                           DT3    2,500 sf     GW3 20,000 sf
                                           DT4    800 sf          –
                                           DT1    –          GW1 –
                                           DT2    0 ft / no    GW2 –
              A.   Front (min/max)             max
                                           DT3    0 ft/ no max GW3 5 ft / no
                                                                   max
                                           DT4    0 / 0 ft        –
                                           DT1    –          GW1 –
                                           DT2    5 / 20 ft    GW2 –
              B.   Side (min/max)       DT3    0 ft / no    GW3 10 / 20 ft
                                                  max
                                           DT4    0 / 10 ft       –
7.   Setbacks                           DT1    –          GW1 –
                                           DT2    15 ft / no   GW2 –
                                                  max
              C.   Rear (min/max)       DT3    15 ft / no   GW3 10 / 20 ft
                                                  max
                                           DT4    0 ft / no       –
                                                  max
                                           DT1    –          GW1 –
              D.   Corner Setback (min/ DT2    5 / 20 ft    GW2 –
              max)                         DT3    0 ft / no    GW3 10 / 20 ft
                                                  max
                                           DT4    0 / 10 ft       –
 
                                                 DT1 –        GW1 –
                                                 DT2 2 / 35 - 3 GW2 –
             A.   Stories / Height                / 35
             in Feet (min-max)                   DT3 2 / 35 - 3 GW3 2 / 35 - 3
                                                     / 35           / 35
8.   Height                                   DT4 2 / 35 - 3    –
                                                     / 35
                                                 DT1 –        GW1 –
             B.   Height of first story (min/ DT2 12 / 16 ft GW2 –
             max)                                DT3 12 / 16 ft GW3 12 / 18 ft
                                                 DT4 12 / 16 ft    –
             A.   Location                        Rear
                                                     Adjacent Lot, Alley. This
                                                     access requirement shall
                                                     be satisfied if the owner
                                                     of the subject property
             B.   Access, Mid Block Lot           enters into a parking and/
                                                     or access easement with
                                                     the adjacent lot owner
                                                     which allows access to the
9.   Parking                                      subject property.
                                                     Adjacent Lot or Side
                                                     Street. This access
                                                     requirement shall be
                                                     satisfied if the owner of
             C.   Access, Corner Lot              the subject property
                                                     enters into a parking and/
                                                     or access easement with
                                                     the adjacent lot owner
                                                     which allows access to the
                                                     subject property.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3215.png]
 
      (10)   Liner building. Liner buildings are new buildings constructed
between parking garages (or other large structures with blank walls) and the
street. They add walkable urban character to the street and are typically mixed
in use.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2781.jpg]
   [c]   Specifications.
                                               [LB]
                                               Liner Building
1.   Lot Width (max)                        no max
2.   Lot Depth (max)                        140 ft
3.   Footprint Area (min/max)               no min / 15,000 sq ft
4.   Building Width (min/max)               25 / 100 ft
                                           DT1 –           GW1 –
5.   Lot Coverage (max %)               DT2 –           GW2 –
                                           DT3 90%           GW3 75%
                                           DT4 –              –
                                           DT1 –           GW1 –
6.   Lot Size (min)                     DT2 –           GW2 –
                                           DT3 2,500 sf      GW3 20,000 sf
                                           DT4 –              –
                                           DT1 –           GW1 –
              A.   Front (min/max)      DT2 –           GW2 –
                                           DT3 0 ft/ no max  GW3 15 ft / no max
                                           DT4 –              –
                                           DT1 –           GW1 –
              B.   Side (min/max)       DT2 –           GW2 –
                                           DT3 0 / 20 ft     GW3 0 / 20 ft
7.   Setbacks                           DT4 –              –
                                           DT1 –           GW1 –
              C.   Rear (min/max)       DT2 –           GW2 –
                                           DT3 5 ft / no max GW3 20 ft / no max
                                           DT4 –              –
                                           DT1 –           GW1 –
              D.   Corner Setback (min/ DT2 –           GW2 –
              max)                         DT3 0 / 20 ft     GW3 0 / 20 ft
                                           DT4 –              –
 
                                                   DT1 –      GW1 –
               A.   Stories / Height            DT2 –      GW2 –
               in Feet (min-max)                   DT3 2 / 35 - GW3 2 / 35 - 3
                                                       3 / 35       / 35
   8.   Height                               DT4 –         –
                                                   DT1 –      GW1 –
               B.   Height of first story (min/ DT2 –      GW2 –
               max)                                DT3 12 / 16  GW3 12 / 18 ft
                                                       ft
                                                   DT4 –         –
               A.   Location                        Rear Structure
                                                       Adjacent Lot. This
                                                       access requirement
                                                       shall be satisfied if
                                                       the owner of the
9.   ParkingB.   Access, Mid Block Lot           subject property enters
                                                       into a parking and/or
                                                       access easement with
                                                       the adjacent lot owner
                                                       which allows access to
                                                       the subject property.
               C.   Access, Corner Lot              Side Street
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3217.png]
 
      (11)   Live/work building. A building type variant that combines elements
of a downtown building and townhouse, in that living space is joined with work
space, retail space and/or professional space that is related to the livelihood
of the building's occupants. All of these uses may occupy any story of the
building. A live/work building may include one unit or multiple units, and may
be an attached or detached building.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2785.jpg]
   [c]   Specifications.
                                                [LW]
                                                Live/work Building
1.   Lot Width (max)                         no max
2.   Lot Depth (max)                         no max
3.   Footprint Area (min/max)                800 / 2,400 sq ft max
4.   Building Width (min/max)                25 / 50 ft max
                                            DT1 –            GW1 –
5.   Lot Coverage (max %)                DT2 75%            GW2 –
                                            DT3 90%            GW3 –
                                            DT4 –               –
                                            DT1 –            GW1 –
6.   Lot Size (min)                      DT2 10,000 sf      GW2 –
                                            DT3 2,500 sf       GW3 –
                                            DT4 –               –
                                            DT1 –            GW1 –
              A.   Front (min/max)       DT2 10 ft / no max GW2 –
                                            DT3 0 ft/ no max   GW3 –
                                            DT4 –               –
                                            DT1 –            GW1 –
              B.   Side (min/max)        DT2 0 ft / no max  GW2 –
                                            DT3 0 ft / no max  GW3 –
7.   Setbacks                            DT4 –               –
                                            DT1 –            GW1 –
              C.   Rear (min/max)        DT2 5 ft / no max  GW2 –
                                            DT3 5 ft / no max  GW3 –
                                            DT4 –               –
                                            DT1 –            GW1 –
              D.   Corner Setback (min/maDT2 0 ft / no max  GW2 –
                                            DT3 0 ft / no max  GW3 –
                                            DT4 –               –
 
                                                 DT1 –        GW1 –
                                                 DT2 2 / 35 - 3 GW2 –
             A.   Stories / Height                / 35
             in Feet (min-max)                   DT3 2 / 35 - 3 GW3 –
8.   Height                                       / 35
                                                 DT4 –           –
                                                 DT1 –        GW1 –
             B.   Height of first story (min/ DT2 9 / 12 ft  GW2 –
             max)                                DT3 9 / 12 ft  GW3 –
                                                 DT4 –           –
             A.   Location                        Rear
                                                     Adjacent Lot, Alley. This
                                                     access requirement shall
                                                     be satisfied if the owner
                                                     of the subject property
9.   ParkiB.   Access, Mid Block Lot           enters into a parking and/
                                                     or access easement with
                                                     the adjacent lot owner
                                                     which allows access to the
                                                     subject property.
             C.   Access, Corner Lot              Side Street, Alley
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3219.png]
 
      (12)   Loft building. A detached building type that was formerly used as,
or has been built to resemble, an industrial factory or mill. Loft buildings
contain multiple dwellings above and beside each other, multiple offices above
and beside each other, and sometimes both. This building type occupies most of
its lot width and is placed close to the sidewalk with parking hidden behind
it.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2789.jpg]
 
   [c]   Specifications.
                                                [LB]
                                                Loft Building
1.   Lot Width (max)                         no max
2.   Lot Depth (max)                         no max
3.   Footprint Area (min/max)                4,000 / 8,000 sq ft
4.   Building Width (min/max)                40 / 100 ft
                                            DT1 –            GW1 –
5.   Lot Coverage (max %)                DT2 75%            GW2 –
                                            DT3 90%            GW3 –
                                            DT4 –               –
                                            DT1 –            GW1 –
6.   Lot Size (min)                      DT2 10,000 sf      GW2 –
                                            DT3 10,000 sf      GW3 –
                                            DT4 –               –
                                            DT1 –            GW1 –
              A.   Front (min/max)       DT2 10 ft / no max GW2 –
                                            DT3 5 ft/ no max   GW3 –
                                            DT4 –               –
                                            DT1 –            GW1 –
              B.   Side (min/max)        DT2 10 ft / no max GW2 –
                                            DT3 10 ft / no max GW3 –
7.   Setbacks                            DT4 –               –
                                            DT1 –            GW1 –
              C.   Rear (min/max)        DT2 15 ft / no max GW2 –
                                            DT3 15 ft / no max GW3 –
                                            DT4 –               –
                                            DT1 –            GW1 –
              D.   Corner Setback (min/maDT2 10 ft / no max GW2 –
                                            DT3 10 ft / no max GW3 –
                                            DT4 –               –
 
                                                 DT1 –        GW1 –
                                                 DT2 2 / 35 - 3 GW2 –
             A.   Stories / Height                / 35
             in Feet (min-max)                   DT3 2 / 35 - 3 GW3 –
8.   Height                                       / 35
                                                 DT4 –           –
                                                 DT1 –        GW1 –
             B.   Height of first story (min/ DT2 10 / 16 ft GW2 –
             max)                                DT3 10 / 16 ft GW3 –
                                                 DT4 –           –
             A.   Location                        Rear
                                                     Adjacent Lot, Alley. This
                                                     access requirement shall
                                                     be satisfied if the owner
                                                     of the subject property
             B.   Access, Mid Block Lot           enters into a parking and/
                                                     or access easement with
                                                     the adjacent lot owner
                                                     which allows access to the
9.   Parking                                      subject property.
                                                     Adjacent Lot or Side
                                                     Street. This access
                                                     requirement shall be
                                                     satisfied if the owner of
             C.   Access, Corner Lot              the subject property
                                                     enters into a parking and/
                                                     or access easement with
                                                     the adjacent lot owner
                                                     which allows access to the
                                                     subject property.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3221.png]
 
      (13)   Pad commerce. A self-contained, single-use lot with a commercial
building designed to serve automobile-based uses and services, and which can be
completely or partially circumnavigated by automobile. Pad commerce is not a
preferred building type, so new pad commerce buildings are to be limited and
should only be allowed in lower-density Character Districts with adequate lot
dimensions.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2793.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2795.jpg]
      (14)   Podium building. Podium buildings are buildings with a small
footprint on the ground level, with the rest of the lot devoted to parking
spaces and auto circulation; and larger floors on the second floor (and higher
floors if applicable) above all or some of the parking spaces. This option
would be accessed from the front of the lot, with a maximum 42 feet of ground
floor facade frontage not enclosed and occupied.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2799.jpg]
 
   [c]   Specifications.
                                                [PB]
                                                Podium Building
1.   Lot Width (max)                         no max
2.   Lot Depth (max)                         120 ft
3.   Footprint Area (min/max)                3,600 / 12,000 sf
4.   Building Width (min/max)                60 / 100 sf
                                            DT1 –           GW1 –
5.   Lot Coverage (max %)                DT2 –           GW2 –
                                            DT3 90%           GW3 90%
                                            DT4 –              –
                                            DT1 –           GW1 –
6.   Lot Size (min)                      DT2 –           GW2 –
                                            DT3 10,000 sf     GW3 20,000 sf
                                            DT4 –              –
                                            DT1 –           GW1 –
              A.   Front (min/max)       DT2 –           GW2 –
                                            DT3 0 ft/ no max  GW3 5 ft / no max
                                            DT4 –              –
                                            DT1 –           GW1 –
              B.   Side (min/max)        DT2 –           GW2 –
                                            DT3 0 ft / no max GW3 10 / 20 ft
7.   Setbacks                            DT4 –              –
                                            DT1 –           GW1 –
              C.   Rear (min/max)        DT2 –           GW2 –
                                            DT3 0 ft / no max GW3 10 / 20 ft
                                            DT4 –              –
                                            DT1 –           GW1 –
              D.   Corner Setback (min/maDT2 –           GW2 –
                                            DT3 0 ft / no max GW3 10 / 20 ft
                                            DT4 –              –
 
                                                   DT1 –      GW1 –
               A.   Stories / Height            DT2 –      GW2 –
               in Feet (min-max)                   DT3 2 / 35 - GW3 2 / 35 - 3
                                                       3 / 35       / 35
   8.   Height                               DT4 –         –
                                                   DT1 –      GW1 –
               B.   Height of first story (min/ DT2 –      GW2 –
               max)                                DT3 12 / 16  GW3 12 / 16 ft
                                                       ft
                                                   DT4 –         –
               A.   Location                        Rear Side (below deck)
                                                       Adjacent Lot, Front
                                                       (limited). This access
                                                       requirement shall be
                                                       satisfied if the owner
                                                       of the subject property
9.   ParkingB.   Access, Mid Block Lot           enters into a parking
                                                       and/or access easement
                                                       with the adjacent lot
                                                       owner which allows
                                                       access to the subject
                                                       property.
               C.   Access, Corner Lot              Adjacent, Side, Front
                                                       (limited)
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3223.png]
 
      (15)   Single house. A residential-scale building physically detached
from other buildings or portions of buildings. However, it does not have to be
used exclusively for single family residential occupation and can host
commercial or multi-family users.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2801.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2803.jpg]
      (16)   Special industry. A low-rise, detached building type with single
or multiple industrial tenants on the ground floor. Related office uses may be
placed on any floor. Typically, these buildings have limited "work yard" and
parking areas between them and their side or rear property lines. Special
industry buildings should only be allowed in lower- density Character Districts
with adequate lot dimensions and access to transportation infrastructure.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2805.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2807.jpg]
      (17)   Strip commerce. A low-rise building with single or multiple retail
or office tenants side-by-side on the ground floor. Residential uses may not be
placed on the ground floor. Typically, these buildings have limited parking
area between the facade and the right-of-way. Parking can be accessed directly
from the highway, but a preferred strategy of shared access with neighboring
parcels is preferred. New strip commerce buildings are to be limited and should
only be allowed in lower-density Character Districts with adequate lot
dimensions.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2809.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2812.jpg]
      (18)   Townhouse. A dwelling unit that is one of a series of dwelling
units in a short row, which is attached by a common fireproof and sound-
resistant wall to one or more similar adjacent dwelling units. Homes that
occupy the corner lot, or which are located at the end of any row of similar
dwelling units, have two front yards and may have a private rear yard.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2814.jpg]
 
   [c]   Specifications.
                                                [TH]
                                                Town House
1.   Lot Width (max)                         no max
2.   Lot Depth (max)                         no max
3.   Footprint Area (min/max)                800 / 1,200 sq ft
4.   Building Width (min/max)                15 / 50 ft
                                            DT1 –            GW1 –
5.   Lot Coverage (max %)                DT2 75%            GW2 –
                                            DT3 75%            GW3 –
                                            DT4 –               –
                                            DT1 –            GW1 –
6.   Lot Size (min)                      DT2 10,000 sf      GW2 –
                                            DT3 10,000 sf      GW3 –
                                            DT4 –               –
                                            DT1 –            GW1 –
              A.   Front (min/max)       DT2 10 ft / no max GW2 –
                                            DT3 5 ft/ no max   GW3 –
                                            DT4 –               –
                                            DT1 –            GW1 –
              B.   Side (min/max)        DT2 0 / 10 ft      GW2 –
                                            DT3 0 / 10 ft      GW3 –
7.   Setbacks                            DT4 –               –
                                            DT1 –            GW1 –
              C.   Rear (min/max)        DT2 –            GW2 –
                                            DT3 5 ft / no max  GW3 –
                                            DT4 5 / 20 ft         –
                                            DT1 –            GW1 –
              D.   Corner Setback (min/maDT2 0 / 10 ft      GW2 –
                                            DT3 0 / 10 ft      GW3 –
                                            DT4 –               –
 
                                                 DT1 –        GW1 –
                                                 DT2 2 / 35 - 3 GW2 –
             A.   Stories / Height                / 35
             in Feet (min-max)                   DT3 2 / 35 - 3 GW3 –
8.   Height                                       / 35
                                                 DT4 –           –
                                                 DT1 –        GW1 –
             B.   Height of first story (min/ DT2 9 / 12 ft  GW2 –
             max)                                DT3 9 / 12 ft  GW3 –
                                                 DT4 –           –
             A.   Location                        Rear
                                                     Adjacent Lot, Alley. This
                                                     access requirement shall
                                                     be satisfied if the owner
                                                     of the subject property
9.   ParkiB.   Access, Mid Block Lot           enters into a parking and/
                                                     or access easement with
                                                     the adjacent lot owner
                                                     which allows access to the
                                                     subject property.
             C.   Access, Corner Lot              Side Street, Alley
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3225.png]
 
      (19)   Twin house. A semi-detached building that consists of two dwelling
units that abut along a property line. A twin building type is a variant of a
townhouse building type, but has one small side yard per each of the two
dwelling units and a large front yard.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2818.jpg]
 
   [c]   Specifications.
                                       [TW]
                                       Twin House
1.   Lot Width (max)                no max
2.   Lot Depth (max)                no max
3.   Footprint Area (min/max)       800 / 2,400 sq ft (total for both
                                       units)
4.   Building Width (min/max)       30 / 50 ft (total for both units)
                                   DT1 60%                              GW1 –
5.   Lot Coverage (max %)       DT2 60%                              GW2 –
                                   DT3 60%                              GW3 –
                                   DT4 –                                 –
                                   DT1 5,000 sf per lot / 10,000 sf for GW1 –
                                       both lots
                                   DT2 5,000 sf per lot / 10,000 sf for GW2 –
6.   Lot Size (min)                 both lots
                                   DT3 5,000 sf per lot / 10,000 sf for GW3 –
                                       both lots
                                   DT4 –                                 –
                                   DT1 15 ft / no max                   GW1 –
              A.   Front (min/maDT2 15 ft / no max                   GW2 –
                                   DT3 5 ft/ no max                     GW3 –
                                   DT4 –                                 –
                                   DT1 0 ft / no max                    GW1 –
              B.   Side (min/maxDT2 0 ft / no max                    GW2 –
                                   DT3 0 ft / no max                    GW3 –
7.   Setbacks                   DT4 –                                 –
                                   DT1 5 ft / no max                    GW1 –
              C.   Rear (min/maxDT2 5 ft / no max                    GW2 –
                                   DT3 5 ft / no max                    GW3 –
                                   DT4 –                                 –
                                   DT1 0 ft / no max                    GW1 –
              D.   Corner (min/ DT2 0 ft / no max                    GW2 –
              max)                 DT3 0 ft / no max                    GW3 –
                                   DT4 –                                 –
 
                                                  DT1 2 / 35 - 3 / 35 GW1 –
             A.   Stories / Height             DT2 2 / 35 - 3 / 35 GW2 –
             in Feet (min-max)                    DT3 2 / 35 - 3 / 35 GW3 –
8.   Height                                    DT4 –                –
                                                  DT1 9 / 12 ft       GW1 –
             B.   Height of first story (min/maDT2 9 / 12 ft       GW2 –
                                                  DT3 9 / 12 ft       GW3 –
                                                  DT4 –                –
             A.   Location                         Rear
9.   ParkiB.   Access, Mid Block Lot            Street, Alley
             C.   Access, Corner Lot               Side Street, Alley
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3227.png]
 
      (20)   Accessory structure. A building or structure that requires a
footing and is customarily associated with and is subordinate and incidental to
a principal building or structure, and that is located on the same tax lot.
This includes but is not limited to accessory dwelling units, garages,
carports, doghouses, sheds, free-standing air-conditioning units, non-portable
swimming pools, tennis courts and other similar structures. Any accessory
building or structure attached to the principal building or structure shall be
considered a part of that principal building or structure, and may be accessed
by an alley if the principal building has frontage along an accepted street.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3229.png]
 
         (c)   Permitted locations. Building types that can be occupied by one
or more dwelling units are permitted one accessory structure on the lot in
addition to the main building. This shall include live-work, townhouse, cottage
house, and single house building types. Twins may share an accessory structure
party wall.
         (d)   Bulk standards. Additional bulk standards are as follows:
            1.   Footprint - The building coverage for a detached accessory
structure may not be larger than the building coverage of the principal
structure.
            2.   Height - The maximum height for a detached accessory structure
containing dwelling units in a Downtown or Gateway District is 18 feet or the
cornice line of the main building, whichever is lower. For those that do not
contain dwelling units, see §
175-87C.
            3.   Setbacks - See §
175-87D.
         (e)   Location of entrances. One main entrance may be placed on the
alley or access road that the accessory structure is located on. If the size,
orientation, or design of the structure does not allow this, the entrance to
the dwelling unit may be located on an alternate facade. This would apply to
units that do not have occupied space on the ground, and are accessed by an
entrance from a balcony or deck.
         (f)   Parking. Any accessory building or structure attached to the
principal building or structure shall be considered part of that principal
building or structure for the calculation of all parking requirements.
         (g)   Special regulatory standards. Where an accessory structure is
created and the principal use is residential, the construction shall comply
fully with the requirements of the New Jersey Residential Site Improvement
Standards (RSIS, N.J.A.C. 5:21-3 et seq.). All standards of that code will
apply to the creation of an accessory structure in a new building or an
addition.
§ 175-161. Signs.
[Amended 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
   A.   No sign may be placed on or attached to a building or erected
independently for any purpose other than to advertise a permitted business or
use conducted on the same premises. No billboards shall be erected or replaced.
   B.   No sign shall be erected, altered or replaced which is not in
accordance with the standards established in this chapter. The erection of any
sign shall require a construction permit. No sign of any type shall be
permitted to obstruct driving vision, traffic signals, traffic direction and
identification signs, other places of business or other signs or windows of the
building on which they are located. No sign shall be attached to trees, fence
posts, stumps, utility poles or other signs, but shall be freestanding or
attached to buildings in an approved manner.
      (1)   Animated, flashing and illusionary signs, except for warning or
safety, signs using mechanical or electrical devices to revolve, flash or
display movement or the illusion of movement or which change physical position
by any movement or rotation or give the visual impression of such movement or
rotation are prohibited.
      (2)   Except as provided in Subsection B(13) below, no outdoor, off-site
commercial advertising sign shall be permitted.
[Amended 4-10-1989 by Ord. No. 7-1989; 7-28-1997 by Ord. No. 10-1997; 11-28-
2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
      (3)   Freestanding signs. Signs shall be supported by one or more columns
or uprights which are firmly embedded in the ground. Exposed guy wires, chains
or other connections shall not be made in permanent support of the freestanding
signs.
      (4)   Height. No freestanding or attached sign shall be higher at any
point than the roofline of the building, except that no sign shall exceed any
lesser height if particularly specified in Article XIII. In addition, no
attached sign shall project into or hang over a street right-of-way, and no
sign shall project beyond a building in a manner placing it above an area
traversed by motor vehicles, such as but not limited to driveways and parking
areas. Where signs project beyond a building facade or wall over a pedestrian
way, the lowest portion of the sign shall be at least eight feet above the
walkway.
      (5)   Illuminated signs shall be so arranged as to reflect the light and
glare away from adjoining premises and away from adjoining highways. No sign
with red, green or blue illumination in a beam, beacon or flashing form
resembling an emergency light shall be erected in any location. Illuminated
signs shall comply with the appropriate state uniform construction codes.
      (6)   Information and direction signs. Street number designations, postal
boxes, on-site directional and parking signs, warning signs and signs posting
property as "private property," "no hunting" or similar signs are permitted in
all zones but are not to be considered in calculating sign area. No such sign
shall exceed two square feet in area.
      (7)   Maintenance. Signs shall be constructed of durable materials,
maintained in good condition and not allowed to become dilapidated.
      (8)   Real estate signs. Two signs temporarily advertising the sale,
rental or lease of the premises or portion thereof shall be permitted. Such
sign shall not exceed nine square feet on each of two sides and shall be
removed at the expense of the advertiser within 15 days after the termination
or completion of the matter or business being advertised. "Sold" signs shall be
permitted between the signing of the contract of sale and 15 days after the
legal closing. All such signs do not require a construction permit.
      (9)   Sign area. Sign area shall be measured around the outside edges of
a framed or enclosed sign or by the area utilized by isolated words and/or
symbols, including the background, whether open or enclosed, but said area
shall not include any supporting framework and bracing incidental to the
display itself.
      (10)   Signs and sign structures. Signs and sign structure of all types
shall be located to allow a clear, unobstructed line of sight for 300 feet from
the stop line of any intersection of streets and/or driveways.
      (11)   Signs with two exposures. Signs with two exposures shall be
measured for area by using the surface areas of one side of the sign only. Both
sides may be used.
      (12)   Wall fascia or attached signs. Wall fascia or attached signs shall
be firmly attached to the exterior wall of a building and shall not project
more than 15 inches from the building.
      (13)   Any existing sign which does not conform to Subsection B(1) above
shall be removed immediately. Any existing sign which does not conform to
Subsection B(2) above shall be removed no later than December 5, 1996.
[Amended 7-28-1997 by Ord. No. 10-1997]
   C.   Permitted signs. The following signs are permitted for uses as
specified in Article XIII of this chapter for the various zoning districts.
   D.   Zoning Districts.
      (1)   The following signs are permitted in the Preservation Area
District:
         (a)   Official public safety and information signs displaying road
names, numbers and safety directions.
         (b)   On-site signs advertising the sale or rental of the premises,
provided that:
            [1]   The area on one side of any such sign shall not exceed 12
square feet.
            [2]   No more than one sign is located on any parcel of land held
in common ownership.
         (c)   On-site identification signs for schools, churches, hospitals or
similar public service institutions, provided that:
            [1]   The size of any such sign shall not exceed 12 square feet.
[2] No more than one sign is placed on any single property.
         (d)   Trespassing signs or signs indicating the private nature of a
road, driveway or premises, and signs prohibiting or otherwise controlling
fishing or hunting, provided that the size of such signs does not exceed 12
square feet.
         (e)   On-site professional, home occupation or name signs indicating
the profession and/or activity and/or name of the occupant of the dwelling,
provided that:
            [1]   The size of any such sign shall not exceed 12 square feet.
            [2]   No more than one sign is permitted for any individual parcel
of land.
         (f)   On-site business or advertising signs, provided that:
            [1]   No more than two signs are located on any one premises or on
the premises leased or utilized by any one business establishment.
            [2]   The total area of such signs shall not exceed 20 square feet
per side, with the maximum height to the top of the sign not to exceed 15 feet
from ground level.
         (g)   Temporary signs advertising political parties or candidates for
election, provided that the size of any such sign does not exceed four square
feet.
         (h)   Temporary on- and off-site signs advertising civil, social or
political gatherings and activities, provided that the size of such signs does
not exceed four square feet.
         (i)   All other temporary on-site signs, provided that the size of any
such sign does not exceed 32 square feet, it is set back at least 20 feet from
the street line or property line, at the discretion of the Building Inspector,
and said sign is removed, at the owner's expense, within 30 days after it is
erected. No more than two such signs shall be erected on any parcel of property
within a calendar year (January 1 to December 31). Should one sign be erected
for more than 30 days, this shall be considered the second sign for the purpose
of this subsection.
[Added 9-9-1985 by Ord. No. 13-1985]
      (2)   All residential districts.
         (a)   Home professions: one professional sign or nameplate not more
than one square foot in area. One such sign shall be allowed for each permitted
use or dwelling unit.
         (b)   Development sign advertising residential construction. Such
signs shall be not larger than 128 square feet in area, shall be limited in
number to one for each street frontage and shall be located on the subject
premises. Development signs shall be removed within 20 days after occupation of
the last house in the subdivision.
         (c)   Contractor's or mechanic's sign, not greater than six square
feet in area. One such sign shall be allowed for each street frontage and shall
be removed promptly upon completion of work.
         (d)   Temporary sign limited to signs advertising activities of civic,
political or religious organizations. Such signs shall be limited to 12 square
feet in area and shall require a permit. Such permit shall run for 30 days and
may be renewed once for another period of 30 days. Six months shall elapse
between permits issued to any one organization.
         (e)   In residence districts where townhouses and garden apartments
are permitted, one identification sign indicating the name and rental
information for an apartment house or group of apartments. Such signs shall be
not greater than 35 square feet in area and a maximum of 12 feet on any side.
      (3)   (Reserved).
      (4)   H-B Highway Business District.
         (a)   Attached signs: one unlighted or lighted sign on each principal
building facade with at least 200 feet of street frontage. The total area on
the sign shall not exceed 10% of the area of the face of the wall upon which
such sign is attached or 75 square feet, whichever is smaller. Where the
building(s) is (are) designed for rear or side entrances, one unlighted sign
may be attached flat against the building at the rear and side entrances, each
sign not to exceed an area equivalent to 1/2 that of the front of the building.
Where more than one use occupies a building, a sign not exceeding eight square
feet identifying the name of the use may also be attached at the entrance.
         (b)   Freestanding signs: one unlighted or lighted freestanding sign
for each principal building or shopping center.
         (c)   Height: 35 feet or the height of the principal building,
whichever is shorter.
         (d)   Setback: at least 30 feet from any street or lot line.
         (e)   Area: 100 square feet.
         (f)   Temporary on-site signs, provided that the size of any such sign
does not exceed 32 square feet, it is set back at least 10 feet from the street
line or property line, at the discretion of the Building Inspector, and said
sign is removed, at the owner's expense, within 30 days after it is erected. No
more than two such signs shall be erected on any parcel of property within a
calendar year (January 1 to December 31). Should one sign be erected for more
than 30 days, this shall be considered the second sign for the purpose of this
subsection.
[Added 9-9-1985 by Ord. No. 13-1985]
      (5)   M-1 Industrial District. Each principal building may have one
lighted or unlighted sign, either freestanding or attached.
         (a)   If freestanding:
            [1]   Height: 15 feet.
            [2]   Setback: at least 50 feet from all street lines and lot
lines.
            [3]   Area: 50 square feet.
         (b)   If attached to the building:
            [1]   Height: no higher than the roofline.
            [2]   Area: 10% of the front wall or 75 square feet, whichever is
smaller.
         (c)   Temporary on-site signs, provided that the size of any such sign
does not exceed 32 square feet, it is set back at least 20 feet from the street
line or property line, at the discretion of the Building Inspector, and said
sign is removed, at the owner's expense within 30 days after it is erected. No
more than two such signs shall be erected on any parcel of property within a
calendar year (January 1 to December 31). Should one sign be erected for more
than 30 days, this shall be considered the second sign for the purpose of this
subsection.
[Added 9-9-1985 by Ord. No. 13-1985]
      (6)   M2 Multi-Use District.
         (a)   Attached signs: one unlighted or lighted sign on each principal
building major facade. The total area of the sign shall not exceed 10% of the
wall to which it is attached or 50 square feet, whichever is less.
         (b)   Freestanding signs: one unlighted or lighted freestanding sign
for each principal building.
         (c)   Height: 15 feet maximum.
         (d)   Setback: at least 20 feet from any street or property line.
         (e)   Area: 50 square feet.
         (f)   Temporary on-site signs, provided that the size of any such sign
does not exceed 32 square feet when associated with an office, office building,
retail or service use; does not exceed eight square feet when associated with a
residential use; is set back at least 20 feet from the street line or property
line, at the discretion of the Building Inspector; and said sign is removed, at
the owner's expense, within 30 days after it is erected. No more than two such
signs shall be erected on any parcel of property within a calendar year
(January 1 to December 31). Should one sign be erected for more than 30 days,
this shall be considered the second sign for the purpose of this subsection.
[Added 9-9-1985 by Ord. No. 1985-13; amended 2-24-1986 by Ord. No. 4-1986]
      (7)   Downtown Districts or Gateway Districts.
[Added 11-28-2011 by Ord. No. 23-2011]
         (a)   General sign provisions in these districts.
            [1]   Where the building(s) is (are) designed for rear or side
entrances, one unlighted sign not to exceed an area equivalent to 1/2 that of
the sign on the front of the building.
         (b)   Address sign.
            [1]   Intent. The intent of regulating address signs is to protect
public safety by ensuring the visibility of street addresses from the street.
Their sizes, colors, and materials are also regulated to preserve or improve
the aesthetic quality of the place in which they are located.
            [2]   Diagram.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2824.jpg]
            [3]   Specifications.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2826.jpg]
            [4]   Zone application.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2828.jpg]
            [5]   Components.
               [a]   Address signs typically consist of either a panel or
individual numbers and letters applied to a building wall.
            [6]   General provisions.
               [a]   Address sign numerals applied to commercial, multifamily
residential buildings, institutional, office, or industrial buildings shall be
between four and ten inches tall. Address sign numerals applied to individual
dwelling units shall be at least two inches tall.
               [b]   Address signs shall be easily visible by using colors or
materials that contrast with their background.
               [c]   Address signs shall not be incorporated into other signs
except in the case of address numerals placed on the valance of awning signs.
               [d]   Address signs shall be constructed of durable materials.
Tape and paper shall not be used to create address signs.
            [7]   Placement.
               [a]   Address signs must be placed in a conspicuous location on
the front of the building, preferably on the primary entrance or above it.
            [8]   Permitted quantities and dimensions.
               [a]   Refer to table [3] for permitted quantities and dimensions
and diagram [2] for an illustration of dimension features.
               [b]   In the event of conflict or inconsistency, specifications
in [6] General Provisions shall apply.
            [9]   Conditions.
               [a]   Reserved.
         (c)   Awning sign.
            [1]   Intent. The intent of regulating awning signs is to ensure
proper dimensioning and placement on the building – with respect to existing
architectural features – to maintain or improve public safety as well as the
aesthetic qualities of the place in which they are located. Awning signs are
also regulated to ensure that they are made of durable materials and are fixed
or replaced if damaged.
            [2]   Diagram.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2830.jpg]
 
            [3]   Specifications.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2832.jpg]
 
            [4]   Zone application.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2834.jpg]
 
            [5]   Permitted components.
               [a]   Awning sign types with the following components are
permitted:
                  i.   Shed and patio awnings with or without signbands
                  ii.   Long dome awnings with or without signbands
                  iii.   Dome awnings with or without signbands or marquee
                  iv.   Marquee awnings
                  v.   Gable awnings
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2836.jpg]
 
               [b]   The following awning sign type components are prohibited:
                  i.   Box awnings
                  ii.   Waterfall and multilevel waterfall awnings
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2838.jpg]
 
            [6]   General provisions.
               [a]   Awning signs shall contain the business name, logo, and
street address. Awning signs shall not contain a list of services or products,
promotional messages, slogans, address information, operating hours, or contact
information.
               [b]   The height of the valance of an awning sign shall not
exceed 12 inches.
               [c]   Letters, numbers, and graphics may be printed only on the
valance portion of the awning sign and must be between five to ten inches in
height and cover no more than 70% of the valance area. A logo may be printed on
the flat surfaces of a shed awning sign. The size of the logo shall not exceed
more than 50% of the area of the flat surface.
               [d]   Awning signs shall be made of a high-quality canvas, woven
acrylic, or similar material. Vinyl, plastic, mylar, and other shiny or glossy
materials are prohibited. "Egg crate" undersides to awning signs are
prohibited.
               [e]   Awning signs shall not be internally illuminated or
backlit.
               [f]   Awning signs shall be colored or patterned so as to match
or complement the architecture or the brand of the business.
               [g]   Where multiple awning signs are present on a single
building (i.e. for multiple retail tenants in a shopping center), awning signs
shall be coordinated in terms of scale, colors, materials, and placement.
               [h]   Torn or damaged awning signs shall be repaired or replaced
immediately.
            [7]   Placement.
               [a]   Awning signs shall not obscure architectural features such
as pilasters, friezes, roof eaves, roofs, etc. Where possible, they shall be
contained within a storefront window bay. Awning signs that span continuously
across the entire face of the building's facade are discouraged.
               [b]   Awning signs shall not extend beyond the width of the
building or tenant space. Awning signs shall not project above the roof line or
extend into the floor above.
               [c]   No portion of an awning sign shall be less than seven feet
above the surface over which it projects or project more than four feet into a
public right-of-way.
            [8]   Permitted quantities and dimensions.
               [a]   Refer to table [3] for permitted quantities and dimensions
and diagram [2] for an illustration of dimension features.
               [b]   In the event of conflict or inconsistency, specifications
in (6) General provisions shall apply.
            [9]   Conditions.
               [a]   Reserved.
         (d)   Entrance canopy.
            [1]   Intent. The intent of regulating entrance canopies is to
ensure durability and to prevent any risk to public health and safety.
Furthermore, entrance canopies are regulated to permit adequate clearance above
the public right- of-way and to ensure proper dimensioning and placement on the
building with respect to existing architectural features.
            [2]   Diagram.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2840.jpg]
 
            [3]   Specifications.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2842.jpg]
 
            [4]   Zone application.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2844.jpg]
 
            [5]   Components.
               [a]   Entrance canopies consist of a canopy of canvas, cloth, or
other materials whose shape is supported by a framework of rods and held up by
posts secured to the ground. The canopy may consist of a flat front and
valances.
            [6]   General provisions.
               [a]   Entrance canopies shall be made of canvas, cloth, or other
similar materials and of fiberglass, plastic or non-ferrous metals. In no case
shall entrance canopies include wood or wood products, masonite, or similar
materials.
            [7]   Placement.
               [a]   In all cases where an entrance canopy is placed upon,
attached to, or forming any part of any building and such awning, entrance
canopy or shelter canopy projects over a sidewalk, or similar place where the
public is accustomed to walk, the rigid or metal parts for any such awning
entrance canopy or shelter canopy shall have a clearance of not less than seven
feet from the sidewalk elevations, and any non-rigid valance of any such
awning, entrance canopy or shelter canopy shall have a clearance of not less
than six and one-half feet from sidewalk elevation.
               [b]   All entrance canopies shall be attached to a building. No
supports shall exist beyond the setback line between the canopy and the
sidewalk or ground below.
               [c]   Entrance canopies shall not extend more than eight feet
from the face of the building on which it is attached.
               [d]   The name, logo, and street address of the establishment
shall be placed on face or sides of canopy in letters no taller than eight
inches. Entrance canopies shall not contain a list of services or products,
promotional messages, slogans, address information, operating hours, or contact
information.
               [e]   Entrance canopies installed with sidewalk illumination
systems shall direct light downward.
            [8]   Permitted quantities and dimensions.
               [a]   Refer to table [3] for permitted quantities and dimensions
and diagram [2] for an illustration of dimension features.
               [b]   In the event of conflict or inconsistency, specifications
in (6) General provisions shall apply.
            [9]   Conditions.
               [a]   Reserved.
         (e)   Marquee.
            [1]   Intent. The intent of regulating marquees is to prevent any
risk to public health and safety. Furthermore, marquees are regulated to permit
adequate clearance above the public right-of-way and to ensure proper
dimensioning and placement on the building with respect to existing
architectural features.
            [2]   Diagram.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2846.jpg]
 
            [3]   Specifications.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2848.jpg]
 
            [4]   Zone application.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2850.jpg]
 
            [5]   Components.
               [a]   Marquees are typically structural features of buildings.
Their components and materials can vary considerably. Anchors, bolts, and
supporting rods are part of the interior of marquees. Signs, typically in the
form of channel letters, are affixed to marquees.
            [6]   General provisions.
               [a]   All marquees, including anchors, bolts, supporting rods
and braces thereof, shall be constructed of incombustible materials and shall
be designed by a structural engineer and approved by the Building Inspector.
               [b]   No portion of a marquee shall be less than ten feet above
the sidewalk.
               [c]   No marquee shall be permitted to extend closer to the curb
line than three feet.
               [d]   No marquee shall be wider than the entrance of the
building plus two feet on each side thereof.
               [e]   Where an entrance consists of multiple adjacent doors, the
multiple doors shall be treated as one single entrance.
               [f]   Marquees shall be supported solely by the building to
which they are attached and no columns or posts shall be used as supports in
the required front yard or street right-of-way.
               [g]   Message boards are permitted as part of marquees.
               [h]   A projecting sign may be placed above a marquee.
            [7]   Placement.
               [a]   Marquees shall only be located above the main entrance of
a building.
            [8]   Permitted quantities and dimensions.
               [a]   Refer to table [3] for permitted quantities and dimensions
and diagram [2] for an illustration of dimension features.
               [b]   In the event of conflict or inconsistency, specifications
in (6) General Provisions shall apply.
            [9]   Conditions.
               [a]   Reserved.
         (f)   Message board.
            [1]   Intent. The intent of regulating message boards is to prevent
any nuisance or risk to public safety and health from illuminated messages.
Furthermore, the dimensions of message boards are regulated so that they are
proportionate with the sign framework in which they are installed.
            [2]   Diagram.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2852.jpg]
 
            [3]   Specifications.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2854.jpg]
 
            [4]   Zone application.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2856.jpg]
 
            [5]   Components.
               [a]   Message board signs are classified into the following
construction types:
                  i.   Non-electronic message boards. Letters are individually
attached to a surface within a transparent display case.
                  ii.   Electronic message boards. A sign with a fixed or
changing message composed of a series of lights that may be changed through
electronic means. Electronic message boards shall be prohibited.
            [6]   General provisions.
               [a]   One message board is permitted for each business or
institution.
               [b]   Message boards shall be permitted on monument signs and
pylon signs. The area of message boards shall not exceed 80% of the area of the
monument sign, pylon sign, or marquee on which it is installed.
               [c]   Non-electronic message boards are permitted to be
internally- illuminated or illuminated by ground mounted lights. No lighting
shall be oriented to create glare or distraction to the motoring public or
residential uses.
               [d]   Maximum of four lines of copy; letter heights one inch for
each 50 feet of visibility; letter width to height ratio 0.7.
               [e]   No imitation of traffic signs, no use of the words "STOP,"
"YIELD,""TURN" or "WARNING."
            [7]   Placement.
               [a]   Message boards shall be placed at 90 degrees to traffic
flow, to maximize their visibility to passing traffic.
            [8]   Permitted quantities and dimensions.
               [a]   Refer to table [3] for permitted quantities and dimensions
and diagram [2] for an illustration of dimension features.
               [b]   In the event of conflict or inconsistency, specifications
located in [6] General provisions shall apply.
            [9]   Conditions.
               [a]   When located within 150 feet of a residentially-used lot
in a residential zone, any part of a message board shall be oriented so that no
portion of the sign face is visible from an existing or permitted principal
structure on that lot.
               [b]   The message board shall be turned off between the hours of
10 p.m. and 6 a.m.
               [c]   Message boards may not be located within the sight
triangle of any street or driveway.
         (g)   Monument sign.
            [1]   Intent. The intent of regulating the dimensions and
appearance of monument signs is to preserve or improve public safety as well as
the aesthetic qualities of the places in which they exist. Regulations also
ensure that the messages on monument signs are clear and not cluttered by
excessive information.
            [2]   Diagram.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2858.jpg]
 
            [3]   Specifications.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2860.jpg]
 
            [4]   Zone application.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2862.jpg]
 
            [5]   Permitted components.
               [a]   Monument signs typically consist of a solid structural
base with a framework of the same material. Monument signs have a message area
that consists of an illuminated cabinet, if the sign is internally-
illuminated, or individual letters that are internally- or externally-
illuminated.
               [b]   Primary tenant or development name. Usually the largest
name or logo appearing on a freestanding sign, and placed at the very top.
               [c]   Secondary tenants. Smaller signs located below the primary
tenant.
               [d]   Street address. Number and street name required for all
monument signs.
            [6]   General provisions.
               [a]   Monument signs for businesses or shopping centers shall be
permitted where the primary street frontage is greater than 50 feet and where
the setback to the main building includes a driveway or surface parking lot.
One monument sign is permitted per street frontage, with the exception that no
monument sign is permitted on the same frontage as a pylon sign.
               [b]   Nonresidential uses in residential zones are permitted one
monument sign per street frontage.
               [c]   The base of the sign shall be landscaped. Landscaping
shall not obscure text. Landscaping shall not block sight lines of the driveway
or circulation aisles.
               [d]   Monument signs shall be limited to the name of the
business and street address, with an optional logo and/ or message board. Other
messages, including but not limited to list of services or products, phone
numbers, sales or promotions, and slogans, are prohibited unless included
within the message board.
               [e]   Monument signs for shopping centers with more than one
tenant shall be limited to a maximum of five business names, including the name
of the retail center, if it has one.
               [f]   Monument signs shall use between five to ten percent of
its area for address identification. Letters and numbers shall be at least six
inches high and be legible from the street.
               [g]   Monument signs shall be internally illuminated with letter
cutouts on an opaque background, or with directed external lighting shielded to
prevent glare.
               [h]   Monument signs shall be designed to match or complement
the colors and architectural features of the adjacent building. Incorporate
similar architectural elements at top, sides or base to frame the sign.
Monument signs shall include a cap.
               [i]   If a monument sign contains listings for multiple tenants,
the information shall be presented in a clear and consistent manner. Color,
font size, and style should be coordinated across a monument sign.
               [j]   If a monument sign is intended to be seen primarily by
motorists, letter size shall be such that a motorist would not need to slow
down drastically to read the contents of the sign.
               [k]   Message boards are permitted as part of monument signs.
            [7]   Placement.
               [a]   Monument signs shall be placed at the entrance to parking
lots or driveways, perpendicular to the street. Monument signs shall not block
sight lines at the driveway or circulation aisles.
               [b]   No portion of the monument sign shall be located within
the public right-of-way. All parts of monument signs shall be located at least
five feet from any property line.
               [c]   No portion of the monument sign shall be located within
sight triangle encroachment areas as defined in §
175-127.
            [8]   Permitted quantities and dimensions.
               [a]   Refer to table [3] for permitted quantities and dimensions
and diagram [2] for an illustration of dimension features.
               [b]   In the event of conflict or inconsistency, specifications
in (6) General provisions shall apply.
            [9]   Conditions.
               [a]   Reserved.
         (h)   Nameplate.
            [1]   Intent. The intent of regulating the sizes, colors, and
materials of nameplates is to preserve or improve public safety, as well as the
aesthetic quality of the place in which they are located.
            [2]   Diagram.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2864.jpg]
 
            [3]   Specifications.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2866.jpg]
 
            [4]   Zone application.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2868.jpg]
 
            [5]   Components.
               [a]   Nameplates typically consist of either a panel or
individual letters applied to a building wall.
            [6]   General provisions.
               [a]   One nameplate shall be permitted per address.
               [b]   Nameplates shall not exceed three square feet in display
area.
               [c]   Nameplates shall be constructed of durable materials. Tape
and paper shall not be used to create nameplates.
               [d]   Nameplates shall include the address number and street in
letters at least six inches in height if a separate address sign is not
provided.
            [7]   Placement.
               [a]   Nameplates shall be attached to the wall within ten feet
of an entrance to the building.
            [8]   Permitted quantities and dimensions.
               [a]   Refer to table [3] for permitted quantities and dimensions
and diagram [2] for an illustration of dimension features.
               [b]   In the event of conflict or inconsistency, specifications
in (6) General provisions shall apply.
            [9]   Conditions.
               [a]   Reserved.
         (i)   Outdoor display case.
            [1]   Intent. The intent of regulating outdoor display cases is to
protect public health and safety by ensuring that their content is maintained
and kept current. Furthermore, the dimensions of outdoor display cases are
regulated so that they do not clutter the facades of the buildings on which
they are mounted.
            [2]   Diagram.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2870.jpg]
 
            [3]   Specifications.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2872.jpg]
 
            [4]   Zone application.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2875.jpg]
 
            [5]   Components.
               [a]   Outdoor display cases consist of lockable metal or wood
framed cabinet with transparent windows mounted onto a building wall.
            [6]   General provisions.
               [a]   One outdoor display case is permitted per every 20 feet of
frontage.
               [b]   Each outdoor display case shall not exceed a total area of
six square feet.
               [c]   Outdoor display cases are permitted to be illuminated in
order for their contents to be visible in the dark.
               [d]   The contents of outdoor display cases shall be maintained
and kept current. Faded, torn, and outdated contacts shall be removed and
replaced immediately.
               [e]   Theaters are permitted to have greater quantities and
dimensions of outdoor display cases at the discretion of the Planning Board.
            [7]   Placement.
               [a]   Outdoor display cases shall be attached to the building
walls nearest to the main entrance.
               [b]   Outdoor display cases shall not be attached to storefront
windows.
            [8]   Permitted quantities and dimensions.
               [a]   Refer to table [3] for permitted quantities and dimensions
and diagram [2] for an illustration of dimension features.
               [b]   In the event of conflict or inconsistency, specifications
in (6) General provisions shall apply.
            [9]   Conditions.
               [a]   Reserved.
         (j)   Projecting/blade sign.
            [1]   Intent. The intent of regulating the dimensions and lighting
of projecting signs is to preserve or improve public safety as well as the
aesthetic qualities of the place in which they are located and to ensure
adequate clearance above the public right-of-way.
            [2]   Diagram.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2877.jpg]
 
            [3]   Specifications.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2879.jpg]
 
            [4]   Zone application.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2881.jpg]
 
            [5]   Permitted components.
               [a]   Components of projecting signs include the letters,
background, lighting, and an optional logo. The simplest projecting signs
consist of letters only, mounted directly on a panel. Projecting signs are
classified into the following construction types:
                  i.   Cut out letters. Letters are individually attached on a
panel. Shall be externally lit.
                  ii.   Flat panel. The letters are printed or etched on same
surface as the background, which is then affixed to the wall. Must be lit
externally.
                  iii.   Box or cabinet. The letters are printed or etched on a
box, deep enough to house internal lighting. The box shall be translucent, and
the letters are silhouetted; or the box shall be opaque and only the letters
are translucent.
            [6]   General provisions.
               [a]   Businesses shall be permitted one projecting sign where
its primary frontage is no more than five feet from the front setback line.
Businesses that have a secondary frontage on another street that is no more
than two feet from the side setback line shall be permitted to have one
additional projecting sign on that facade.
               [b]   Projecting signs shall be on a single plane and project at
a 90 degree angle from the face of the building. Signs may be double-sided.
               [c]   Projecting signs shall be permitted only for businesses
that have a primary entrance on the ground floor.
               [d]   Text and graphics on the projecting sign shall be limited
to the name and logo of the business only. Slogans or text advertising products
or services are permitted if letters are not more than three inches in height
and take up no more than 25% of the area of the sign. Address labels, operating
hours and contact information are prohibited.
               [e]   Internally illuminated projecting signs shall be
prohibited unless the cabinet has an opaque background with letter cut outs.
Lighting elements shall not be visible and shall be contained within the
maximum depth of six inches.
               [f]   Mounting hardware, such as supports and brackets, may be
simple and unobtrusive or be highly decorative, but must complement the design
of the sign, the building, or both.
               [g]   For buildings with multiple signs (e.g., for multiple
retail tenants in a shopping center), mounting hardware or sign shapes, sizes
and colors shall be coordinated.
            [7]   Placement.
               [a]   Projecting signs shall not extend beyond the top of the
roof line.
               [b]   On multi-story buildings, projecting signs shall not
extend above the bottom of the second floor window sills, unless placed above a
marquee sign.
               [c]   No portion of a projecting sign shall be less than eight
feet above the surface over which it projects or project more than four feet
from the wall on which it is attached into a public right-of-way.
            [8]   Permitted quantities and dimensions.
               [a]   Refer to table [3] for permitted quantities and dimensions
and diagram [2] for an illustration of dimension features.
               [b]   In the event of conflict or inconsistency, specifications
in (6) General provisions shall apply.
            [9]   Conditions.
               [a]   Reserved.
         (k)   Pylon sign.
            [1]   Intent. The intent of regulating the dimensions and
appearance of pylon signs is to preserve or improve public safety as well as
the aesthetic qualities of the place in which they are located. Regulations
also ensure that the messages on pylon signs are clear and not cluttered by
excessive information.
            [2]   Diagram.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2883.jpg]
 
            [3]   Specifications.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2885.jpg]
 
            [4]   Zone application.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2887.jpg]
 
            [5]   Permitted components.
               [a]   Primary tenant or development name. Usually the largest
name or logo appearing on a freestanding sign, and placed at the very top.
               [b]   Secondary tenants. Smaller signs located below the primary
tenant.
               [c]   Street address. Number and street name required for all
pylon signs.
               [d]   Message board. Some uses may employ a message board with
electronic or manual changeable letters to advertise events, sales, or
attractions that occur for a limited time.
            [6]   General provisions.
               [a]   Pylon signs supported by a single pole or three or more
supporting poles are not permitted. Only pylon signs supported by two
supporting pylons are permitted.
               [b]   Pylon signs shall be permitted only for businesses or
shopping centers where the primary street frontage is greater than 50 feet and
permits on- street parking, and where the main building setback includes a
driveway or surface parking lot. One pylon sign is permitted per lot. Where a
development has a secondary street frontage, a monument sign shall be used on
that frontage.
               [c]   The base of the sign shall be landscaped. Landscaping
shall not block sight lines of the driveway or circulation aisles.
               [d]   No portion of the pylon sign shall be located on or above
the public right-of-way.
               [e]   Pylon signs shall maintain a minimum seven feet clearance
from the bottom of the sign (not including supports) to the ground, unless
enough landscaping is provided to prevent people from walking underneath it.
               [f]   To ease in visibility, pylon signs shall be limited only
to the name and street address of the business, with an optional logo and/or
message board. Other messages, including but not limited to list of services or
products, phone numbers, sales or promotions, and slogans, are prohibited
unless included within the message board.
               [g]   Pylon signs for retail centers with more than one tenant
shall be limited to a maximum of five business names, including the name of the
retail center, if it has one.
               [h]   Pylon signs shall use between five to ten percent of its
area for address identification. Letters and numbers shall be at least six
inches high and be legible from the street.
               [i]   Pylon signs are permitted to be internally illuminated
with letter cutouts on an opaque background.
               [j]   Pylon signs are permitted to be externally illuminated
provided that the light is directed toward the sign.
               [k]   Pylon signs shall be designed to match or complement the
colors and architectural features of the adjacent building. Incorporate similar
architectural elements at top, sides or base to frame the sign.
               [l]   If a pylon sign contains listings for multiple tenants,
the information shall be presented in a clear and consistent manner. Color,
font size, and style should be coordinated across a pylon sign.
               [m]   Message boards are permitted as part of pylon signs.
            [7]   Placement.
               [a]   Pylon signs shall be placed at the entrance to parking
lots or driveways, perpendicular to the street. Pylon signs shall not block
sight lines at the driveway or circulation aisles.
               [b]   Landscaping shall not block sight lines of the driveway or
circulation aisles.
               [c]   No portion of pylon signs shall be located on or above the
public right- of-way. All parts of pylon signs shall be located at least five
feet from any property line.
            [8]   Permitted quantities and dimensions.
               [a]   Refer to table [3] for permitted quantities and dimensions
and diagram [2] for an illustration of dimension features.
               [b]   In the event of conflict or inconsistency, specifications
in (6) General provisions shall apply.
            [9]   Conditions.
               [a]   Reserved.
         (l)   Roof sign.
            [1]   Intent. The intent of regulating roof signs is to prohibit
them.
            [2]   Diagram.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2889.jpg]
 
            [3]   Specifications.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2891.jpg]
 
            [4]   Zone application.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2893.jpg]
 
            [5]   Components.
               [a]   Roof-mounted signs are any signs mounted above the
roofline of any structure, and typically feature:
                  i.   externally illuminated flat panel;
                  ii.   internally illuminated letters or images.
               [b]   Any component above a building's roof line is prohibited.
            [6]   General provisions.
               [a]   Roof signs are prohibited.
            [7]   Placement.
               [a]   Roof signs are prohibited.
            [8]   Permitted quantities and dimensions.
               [a]   Refer to table [3] for permitted quantities and dimensions
and diagram [2] for an illustration of dimension features.
               [b]   In the event of conflict or inconsistency, specifications
in (6) General provisions shall apply.
            [9]   Conditions.
               [a]   Reserved.
         (m)   Temporary sign, banner.
            [1]   Intent. The intent of regulating temporary banner signs is to
protect public safety by ensuring that they are removed after a specified time
period. Furthermore, the dimensions of temporary banner signs are regulated to
prevent the signs from cluttering or obscuring the building facade.
            [2]   Diagram.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2895.jpg]
 
            [3]   Specifications.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2897.jpg]
 
            [4]   Zone application.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2899.jpg]
 
            [5]   Components.
               [a]   Banners typically consist of a large printed sign, usually
on a weather durable material like vinyl, to achieve the same kind of
visibility as most wall-mounted signs. Because of its light weight it can be
attached to nearly any surface where a more permanent wall sign would be
difficult or impossible to mount, such as on highly decorated or ornate
surfaces or on fences.
            [6]   General provisions.
               [a]   Banners must be temporary, and shall not be used in place
of or in addition to other forms of permanent signage.
               [b]   Banners shall only be permitted to announce events of
limited occurrence or duration such as sales, grand openings, or change of
tenant; or for public functions or fundraising events for charitable,
educational, civic, religious, or similar purposes.
               [c]   Banners may be in place no longer than 30 days in a
calendar year. Days do not necessarily need to be consecutive.
               [d]   Banner signs shall not exceed six feet in height or 16
feet in width, with a maximum area of 32 square feet. Banners shall not be
wider than the building on which it is applied.
               [e]   Only one banner is permitted to be displayed at a time.
               [f]   "For sale" or "for lease" signs for buildings or space
within buildings are exempt from the time limit, but shall be removed before or
upon sale or lease.
               [g]   Banners shall be constructed of durable materials that can
sustain winds and inclement weather.
            [7]   Placement.
               [a]   Banners for commercial and industrial uses shall be
located on the building. Banners for public and institutional uses may be
located on the building or on premises.
            [8]   Permitted quantities and dimensions.
               [a]   Refer to table [3] for permitted quantities and dimensions
and diagram [2] for an illustration of dimension features.
               [b]   In the event of conflict or inconsistency, specifications
in (6) General provisions shall apply.
            [9]   Conditions.
               [a]   Reserved.
         (n)   Temporary sign, freestanding.
            [1]   Intent. The intent of regulating temporary freestanding signs
is to protect public safety by ensuring that they are removed after a specified
time period. The dimensions of temporary freestanding signs are regulated to
ensure adequate clearance from other pedestrian obstructions along the public
right- of-way.
            [2]   Diagram.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2901.jpg]
 
            [3]   Specifications.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2903.jpg]
 
            [4]   Zone application.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2905.jpg]
 
            [5]   Components.
               [a]   A freestanding, double-sided temporary sign placed at the
entrance to a business in a primarily pedestrian environment. They are
convenient to move and store and be placed outside on a day-to-day basis, and
removed at the close of business each day.
            [6]   General provisions.
               [a]   One A-Frame sign (also known as sandwich board) shall be
permitted for each business. A-Frame signs should be made of high quality
materials and be weather durable. A-Frame signs shall not exceed 42 inches in
height or 26 inches in width.
            [7]   Placement.
               [a]   Freestanding temporary signs shall be placed in front of
business property only.
               [b]   Freestanding temporary signs shall not be placed more than
five feet from other pedestrian obstructions.
               [c]   Freestanding temporary signs shall be stored inside when
the business is not open or when the sign is not in use. A-Frame signs shall
also be stored inside during high winds or other weather conditions that might
pose a hazard to public safety.
               [d]   No portion of the temporary sign shall be located within
site triangle encroachment areas as defined in §
175-127.
            [8]   Permitted quantities and dimensions.
               [a]   Refer to table [3] for permitted quantities and dimensions
and diagram [2] for an illustration of dimension features.
               [b]   In the event of conflict or inconsistency, specifications
in (6) General provisions shall apply.
            [9]   Conditions.
               [a]   Reserved.
         (o)   Temporary sign, window.
            [1]   Intent. The intent of regulating temporary window signs is to
protect public safety by ensuring that they are removed after a limited time
period. The dimensions of temporary window signs are regulated to prevent
cluttering the storefront window.
            [2]   Diagram.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2907.jpg]
 
            [3]   Specifications.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2909.jpg]
 
            [4]   Zone application.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2911.jpg]
 
            [5]   Components.
               [a]   Temporary window signs typically are affixed to windows.
            [6]   General provisions.
               [a]   Temporary window signs shall be limited to no more than
20% of the area of the glass panel on which they are displayed, such that the
aggregate area of permanent and temporary window signs does not exceed 33 1/3 %
of the glass panel on which they are displayed. The area of temporary window
signs shall not be included in the calculations of the areas of permanent
window signs.
               [b]   Temporary window signs may be displayed for a maximum of
30 days in a calendar year. The days do not need to be consecutive. A "day"
shall mean any part of the day for any duration.
               [c]   "For sale" or "for lease" signs are exempt from this time
limit, but shall be removed before or upon sale or lease.
               [d]   Temporary window signs may not be illuminated.
            [7]   Placement.
               [a]   Temporary window signs shall be affixed to the interior of
the window.
            [8]   Permitted quantities and dimensions.
               [a]   Refer to table [3] for permitted quantities and dimensions
and diagram [2] for an illustration of dimension features.
               [b]   In the event of conflict or inconsistency, specifications
in (6) General provisions shall apply.
            [9]   Conditions.
               [a]   Reserved.
         (p)   Wall-mounted sign.
            [1]   Intent. The intent of regulating wall-mounted signs is to
ensure proper dimensioning and placement on the building – with respect to
existing architectural features – to maintain or improve public safety as well
as the aesthetic qualities of the place in which they are located. Lighting of
wall- mounted signs is also regulated to reduce glare.
            [2]   Diagram.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2913.jpg]
 
            [3]   Specifications. [Amended 6-17-2019 by Ord. No. 14-2019]
a. Quantity         1 per business; 2 for corner properties
b. Area             1.5 sf per linear ft of building front
c. Width            max 90% of width of building front
d. Height           max 24 in
e. Valance Height   n/a
f. Depth/Projection max 7 in
g. Clearance        min. 7 ft
h. Apex             n/a
i. Letter Height    max 18 in
 
 
            [4]   Zone application.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2917.jpg]
 
            [5]   Permitted components.
               [a]   Components of wall-mounted signs include the letters,
background, lighting, and an optional logo. The simplest wall-mounted signs
consist of letters only, mounted directly on the wall. Wall-mounted signs are
classified into the following construction types:
                  i.   Cut out letters. Letters are individually attached to
the wall or on a separate background panel, and shall be externally
illuminated.
                  ii.   Channel letters. Each letter has its own internal
lighting element, individually attached to the wall or onto a separate
background panel. The letter shall be translucent, or solid to create a backlit
"halo" effect.
                  iii.   Flat panel. The letters are printed or etched on same
surface as the background, which is then affixed to the wall and shall be lit
externally.
                  iv.   Box or cabinet. The letters are printed or etched on a
box, deep enough to house internal lighting. The box shall be translucent, and
the letters are silhouetted; or the box shall be opaque and only the letters
are translucent.
            [6]   General provisions.
               [a]   All businesses are permitted one wall-mounted sign.
Businesses may have one additional wall sign where it has a secondary street
frontage, but in no case shall a business have more than two wall-mounted signs
in total. Where a business is allowed more than one wall-mounted sign, each
sign shall be on a separate façade.
               [b]   Wall-mounted signs shall consist of the name and logo of
the business. Wall-mounted signs shall not list products, sales, or other
promotional messages. Wall signs shall not contain address information, phone
number, or other contact information.
               [c]   Height and width shall be measured using smallest
rectangle that fully encompasses the entire extent of letters, logo and
background.
               [d]   Wall-mounted signs shall not be wider than building face
or tenant space.
               [e]   Wall-mounted signs shall not project vertically above the
roof line.
               [f]   Where multiple wall-mounted signs are present on a single
building (i.e. for retail tenants in a shopping center), signage shall be
coordinated in terms of scale, placement, colors and materials.
               [g]   Wall-mounted signs shall be illuminated at least from dusk
to dawn. External lights shall be shielded from direct view to reduce glare.
               [h]   Electrical raceways, conduits and wiring shall not be
exposed. Internal lighting elements shall be contained completely within the
sign assembly or inside the wall.
            [7]   Placement.
               [a]   Wall-mounted signs shall be placed where the architectural
features suggest the best placement for signage. They shall be vertically
aligned with the center of an architectural feature such as a storefront
window, entry portal, or width of a bay or overall retail space.
               [b]   Placement of wall-mounted signs shall be compatible with
existing architectural features such as bays, openings, pilasters, etc. They
shall not interrupt or obscure these features or cause visual disharmony.
               [c]   Wall-mounted signs are not permitted above the ground
floor of buildings.
            [8]   Permitted quantities and dimensions.
               [a]   Refer to table [3] for permitted quantities and dimensions
and diagram [2] for an illustration of dimension features.
               [b]   In the event of conflict or inconsistency, specifications
in (6) General provisions shall apply.
            [9]   Conditions.
               [a]   Reserved.
         (q)   Window sign.
            [1]   Intent. The intent of regulating the dimensions of window
signs is to protect public safety by preventing cluttering of storefront
windows and maintaining visibility through storefront windows.
            [2]   Diagram.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2919.jpg]
 
            [3]   Specifications.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2921.jpg]
 
            [4]   Zone application.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2923.jpg]
 
            [5]   Permitted components.
               [a]   Window signs are classified into the following
construction types.
                  i.   Poster or placard. A sign printed on paper, cardstock or
other material, which is affixed to the window or placed against it.
                  ii.   Label applique letters. A sticker that is applied to
the window. Label appliques shall consist of individual letters or graphics
with no background.
                  iii.   Painted letters. Painted directly on the window.
                  iv.   Hanging sign. Signs that are hanging from the ceiling
behind the window. Usually these signs require electricity for illumination.
Examples include neon signs or an internally illuminated box or cabinet sign.
                  v.   Video display sign. Signs consisting of electronically
generated text and images displayed on a computer monitor, television screen,
LCD photo frame, or similar device.
                  vi.   Door sign. Signs applied to the glass portion of an
entrance doorway.
                  vii.   Neon sign.
            [6]   General provisions.
               [a]   Window signs shall not interfere with the primary function
of windows, which is to enable passersby and public safety personnel to see
through windows into premises and product displays.
               [b]   Window signs shall be no larger than 25% of the total area
of the glass panel onto which they are applied. Commercial, office, or
institutional establishments on the second floor of a two-story building are
permitted to have window signs that shall be no larger than 25% of the total
area of the glass panel onto which they are applied.
               [c]   Window signs shall be allowed to list services and/ or
products sold on the premises, or provide phone numbers, operating hours or
other messages, provided that the total aggregate area of these messages not
exceed the area utilized for the business identification.
               [d]   Merchandise or other objects that are located inside
within three feet of the window and that are not part of a commercial window
display shall be considered window signs, subject to the provisions in this
section.
               [e]   Door signs shall be no larger than 25% of the area of the
door onto which it is applied.
               [f]   Neon signs shall be no larger than two square feet. The
dimensions of neon signs shall be included in calculations of window sign
areas.
               [g]   Neon lights outlining windows are prohibited.
               [h]   Letters on window signs, including neon signs and door
signs, shall not be taller than eight inches.
               [i]   Video display signs are permitted only behind, and facing
the inside of, ground-floor windows.
               [j]   Video display signs shall be no larger than 2.5 square
feet. The dimensions of video displays shall be included in the calculations of
window sign areas.
               [k]   Video display signs shall present a static display, and
shall not change more frequently than 20 seconds, and shall not flash or
include animations other than fades, dissolves or wipes through black.
               [l]   Audio speakers or any form of sound emanating from video
display devices are prohibited.
               [m]   Except for neon signs and video display signs, where
permitted – and ambient lighting – window signs shall not be illuminated.
            [7]   Placement.
               [a]   Window signs shall be applied to, or placed facing, the
interior side of the window.
            [8]   Permitted quantities and dimensions.
               [a]   Refer to table [3] for permitted quantities and dimensions
and diagram [2] for an illustration of dimension features.
               [b]   In the event of conflict or inconsistency, specifications
in (6) General provisions shall apply.
            [9]   Conditions.
               [a]   Reserved.
§ 175-162 Affordable housing.
[Added 8-27-2018 by Ord. No. 31-2018; amended 11-19-2018 by Ord. No. 45-2018]
The purpose of this section is to provide for and regulate affordable housing
in the town.
   A.   Definitions. The following terms when used in this section shall have
the meanings given in this section:
   ACT – The Fair Housing Act of 1985, P.L. 1985, c. 222 (N.J.S.A. 52:27D-301
et seq.)
   ADAPTABLE – Constructed in compliance with the technical design standards of
the Barrier Free Sub code, N.J.A.C. 5:23-7.
   ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT – The entity designated by the town to administer
affordable units in accordance with this section, N.J.A.C. 5:93, and UHAC
(N.J.A.C. 5:80-26).
   AFFIRMATIVE MARKETING – A regional marketing strategy designed to attract
buyers and/or renters of affordable units pursuant to N.J.A.C. 5:80-26.15.
   AFFORDABILITY AVERAGE – The average percentage of median income at which new
restricted units in an affordable housing development are affordable to low-
and moderate-income households.
   AFFORDABLE – A sales price or rent level that is within the means of a low-
or moderate-income household as defined within N.J.A.C. 5:93-7.4, and, in the
case of an ownership unit, that the sales price for the unit conforms to the
standards set forth in N.J.A.C. 5:80-26.6, as may be amended and supplemented,
and, in the case of a rental unit, that the rent for the unit conforms to the
standards set forth in N.J.A.C. 5:80-26.12, as may be amended and supplemented.
   AFFORDABLE HOUSING DEVELOPMENT – A development included in or approved
pursuant to the Housing Element and Fair Share Plan or otherwise intended to
address the town's fair share obligation, and includes, but is not limited to,
an inclusionary development, a municipal construction project or a 100%
affordable housing development, group homes, residential health care facility,
extending controls and a Market to Affordable Program.
   AFFORDABLE HOUSING PROGRAM(S) – Any mechanism in a municipal Fair Share Plan
prepared or implemented to address a municipality's fair share obligation.
   AFFORDABLE UNIT – A housing unit proposed or created pursuant to the Act and
approved for crediting by the Court and/or funded through an affordable housing
trust fund.
   AGENCY – The New Jersey Housing and Mortgage Finance Agency established by
P.L. 1983, c. 530 (N.J.S.A. 55:14K-1, et seq.).
   AGE-RESTRICTED UNIT – A housing unit designed to meet the needs of, and
exclusively for, the residents of an age-restricted segment of the population
such that: 1) all the residents of the development wherein the unit is situated
are 62 years of age or older; or 2) at least 80% of the units are occupied by
one person who is 55 years of age or older; or 3) the development has been
designated by the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development as "housing for older persons" as defined in Section 807(b)(2) of
the Fair Housing Act, 42 U.S.C. § 3607.
   ALTERNATIVE LIVING ARRANGEMENTS – A structure in which households live in
distinct bedrooms, yet share kitchen and plumbing facilities, central heat and
common areas. Alternative living arrangements include, but are not limited to:
transitional facilities for the homeless; Class A, B, C, D and E boarding homes
as regulated by the State of New Jersey Department of Community Affairs;
residential health care facilities as regulated by the New Jersey Department of
Health; group homes for the developmentally disabled and mentally ill as
licensed and/or regulated by the New Jersey Department of Human Services; and
congregate living arrangements.
   CERTIFIED HOUSEHOLD – A household that has been certified by an
administrative agent as a low-income household or moderate-income household.
   DCA – The State of New Jersey Department of Community Affairs.
   DEFICIENT HOUSING UNIT – A housing unit with health and safety code
violations that requires the repair or replacement of a major system. A major
system includes weatherization, roofing, plumbing (including wells), heating,
electricity, sanitary plumbing (including septic systems), lead paint abatement
and/or load bearing structural systems.
   DEVELOPMENT – The division of a parcel of land into two or more parcels, the
construction, reconstruction, conversion, structural alteration, relocation, or
enlargement of any use or change in the use of any building or other structure,
or of any mining, excavation or landfill, and any use or change in the use of
any building or other structure, or land or extension of use of land, for which
permission may be required pursuant to N.J.S.A. 40:55D-1, et seq.
   INCLUSIONARY DEVELOPMENT – A development containing both affordable units
and market rate units. This term includes, but is not limited to: new
construction, the conversion of a non-residential structure to residential use
and the creation of new affordable units through the gut rehabilitation or
reconstruction of a vacant residential structure.
   LOW-INCOME HOUSEHOLD – A household with a total gross annual household
income equal to 50% or less of the regional median household income by
household size.
   LOW-INCOME UNIT – A restricted unit that is affordable to a low-income
household.
   MAJOR SYSTEM – The primary structural, mechanical, plumbing, electrical,
fire protection, or occupant service components of a building which include but
are not limited to, weatherization, roofing, plumbing (including wells),
heating, electricity, sanitary plumbing (including septic systems), lead paint
abatement and load bearing structural systems.
   MARKET-RATE UNITS – Housing not restricted to low- and moderate-income
households that may sell or rent at any price.
   MEDIAN INCOME – The median income by household size for the applicable
housing region, as adopted annually by COAH or a successor entity approved by
the Court.
   MODERATE-INCOME HOUSEHOLD – A household with a total gross annual household
income in excess of 50% but less than 80% of the regional median household
income by household size.
   MODERATE-INCOME UNIT – A restricted unit that is affordable to a moderate-
income household.
   MULTIFAMILY UNIT – A structure containing five or more dwelling units.
   NON-EXEMPT SALE – Any sale or transfer of ownership other than the transfer
of ownership between husband and wife; the transfer of ownership between former
spouses ordered as a result of a judicial decree of divorce or judicial
separation, but not including sales to third parties; the transfer of ownership
between family members as a result of inheritance; the transfer of ownership
through an executor's deed to a class A beneficiary and the transfer of
ownership by court order.
   RANDOM SELECTION PROCESS – A process by which currently income-eligible
households are selected for placement in affordable housing units such that no
preference is given to one applicant over another except for purposes of
matching household income and size with an appropriately priced and sized
affordable unit (e.g., by lottery).
   REGIONAL ASSET LIMIT – The maximum housing value in each housing region
affordable to a four-person household with an income at 80% of the regional
median as defined by duly adopted Regional Income Limits published annually by
COAH or a successor entity.
   REHABILITATION – The repair, renovation, alteration or reconstruction of any
building or structure, pursuant to the Rehabilitation Sub code, N.J.A.C. 5:23-
6.
   RENT – The gross monthly cost of a rental unit to the tenant, including the
rent paid to the landlord, as well as an allowance for tenant-paid utilities
computed in accordance with allowances published by DCA for its Section 8
program. In assisted living residences, rent does not include charges for food
and services.
   RESTRICTED UNIT – A dwelling unit, whether a rental unit or an ownership
unit, that is subject to the affordability controls of N.J.A.C. 5:80-26.1, as
amended and supplemented, but does not include a market-rate unit financed
under UHORP or MONI.
   UHAC – The Uniform Housing Affordability Controls set forth in N.J.A.C. 5:
80-26, et seq.
   VERY LOW-INCOME HOUSEHOLD – A household with a total gross annual household
income equal to 30% or less of the regional median household income by
household size.
   VERY LOW-INCOME UNIT – A restricted unit that is affordable to a very low-
income household.
   WEATHERIZATION – Building insulation (for attic, exterior walls and crawl
space), siding to improve energy efficiency, replacement storm windows,
replacement storm doors, replacement windows and replacement doors, and is
considered a major system for purposes of a rehabilitation program.
   B.   Applicability. The provisions of this section shall apply to all
affordable housing developments and affordable housing units that currently
exist and that are proposed to be created within the Town of Hammonton pursuant
to the town's most recently adopted Housing Element and Fair Share Plan.
   C.   Alternative living arrangements.
      (1)   The administration of an alternative living arrangement shall be in
compliance with N.J.A.C. 5:93-5.8 and UHAC, with the following exceptions:
         (a)   Affirmative marketing (N.J.A.C. 5:80-26.15), provided, however,
that the units or bedrooms may be affirmatively marketed by the provider in
accordance with an alternative plan approved by the Court.
         (b)   Affordability average and bedroom distribution (N.J.A.C. 5:80-
26.3).
      (2)   With the exception of units established with capital funding
through a 20-year operating contract with the Department of Human Services,
Division of Developmental Disabilities, alternative living arrangements shall
have at least 30 year controls on affordability in accordance with UHAC, unless
an alternative commitment is approved by the Court.
         (a)   The service provider for the alternative living arrangement
shall act as the administrative agent for the purposes of administering the
affirmative marketing and affordability requirements for the alternative living
arrangement.
   D.   Zoning:
      (1)   All Downtown Districts [§
175-154.4(DT-1), §
175-154.5(DT-2), §
175-154.6(DT-3), §
175-154.7(DT-4)]
         (a)   Any new multifamily unit development (including mixed-use
development) in the Downtown Zoning Districts (§§
175-154.4-
175-154.7) shall comply with the following:
            [1]   A minimum of 15% of the total number of units shall be set
aside as affordable housing units if the affordable units will be for rent. If
the calculation of the total number of affordable units required yields a
fraction of less than 0.5 then either a pro-rated payment in lieu or one
additional unit shall be provided. If the calculation of the total number of
affordable units required yields a fraction greater than 0.5, the obligation
shall be rounded up and the additional unit shall be provided.
            [2]   A minimum of 20% of the total number of units shall be set
aside as affordable housing units if the affordable units will be for sale. If
the calculation of the total number of affordable units required yields a
fraction of less than 0.5, then either a pro-rated payment in lieu or one
additional unit shall be provided. If the calculation of the total number of
affordable units required yields a fraction of greater than 0.5, the obligation
shall be rounded up and the additional unit shall be provided.
            [3]   The provisions of this section shall not apply to residential
expansions, additions, renovations, replacement, or any other type of
residential development that does not result in a net increase in the number of
dwellings of five or more.
            [4]   At least half of all affordable units shall be affordable to
low income households, and the remainder may be affordable to moderate income
households. Within rental developments, at least 13% of the affordable units
shall be affordable to very low income households, with the very low income
units counted as part of the low income requirement.
            [5]   The above provisions shall not be construed to require
residential or mixed-use development in a Downtown Zoning District other than
where it is already permitted.
      (2)   All Zoning Districts of the Town of Hammonton except the Downtown
Zoning Districts (§§
175-154.4-
175-154.7).
         (a)   All new multifamily unit development which includes the
development of units defined in §
175-10 as multifamily and mixed use, that contain five or more dwelling units;
and all new multifamily unit development that consists of single family
attached units as defined in §
175-10, that contain more than ten dwelling units shall comply with the
following:
            [1]   A minimum of 15% of the total number of units shall be set
aside as affordable housing units if the affordable units will be for rent. If
the calculation of the total number of affordable units required yields a
fraction of less than 0.5 then either a pro-rated payment in lieu or one
additional unit shall be provided. If the calculation of the total number of
affordable units required yields a fraction greater than 0.5, the obligation
shall be rounded up and the additional unit shall be provided.
            [2]   A minimum of 20% of the total number of units shall be set
aside as affordable housing units if the affordable units will be for sale. If
the calculation of the total number of affordable units required yields a
fraction of less than 0.5, then either a pro-rated payment in lieu or one
additional unit shall be provided. If the calculation of the total number of
affordable units required yields a fraction of greater than 0.5, the obligation
shall be rounded up and the additional unit shall be provided.
            [3]   The provisions of this section shall not apply to residential
expansions, additions, renovations, replacement, or any other type of: 1)
single family attached development that does not result in a net increase of
more than ten dwelling units; or 2) residential development, other than single
family attached, that does not result in a net increase in the number of
dwellings of five or more.
            [4]   At least half of all affordable units shall be affordable to
low income households, and the remainder may be affordable to moderate income
households. Within rental developments, at least 13% of the affordable units
shall be affordable to very low income households, with the very low income
units counted as part of the low income requirement.
            [5]   The above provisions shall not apply to single family
detached developments of up to ten dwelling units which shall be subject to the
residential development fee set forth in §
175-50.1; and to single family detached developments of more than ten dwelling
units which shall be subject to the provisions of N.J.S. 52:27D-329.9.
            [6]   The above provisions shall not be construed to require
residential or mixed-use development in a Zoning District other than where it
is already permitted.
            [7]   The above provisions shall only be applicable to those
parcels served by a centralized wastewater treatment plant.
   E.   Phasing schedule for inclusionary zoning.
      (1)   In inclusionary developments the following schedule shall be
followed:
 
Maximum Percentage of Market- Rate Minimum Percentage of Low- and Moderate-
Units Completed                    Income Units Completed
25                                 0
25 + 1                             10
50                                 50
75                                 75
90                                 100
 
   F.   New construction.
      (1)   Low/moderate split and bedroom distribution of affordable housing
units:
         (a)   The fair share obligation shall be divided equally between low-
and moderate-income units, except that where there is an odd number of
affordable housing units, the extra unit shall be a low income unit. At least
13% of all restricted rental units shall be very low income units (affordable
to a household earning 30% or less of median income). The very low income units
shall be counted as part of the required number of low income units within the
development.
         (b)   At least 25% of the obligation shall be met through rental
units, including at least half in rental units available to families.
         (c)   A maximum of 25% of the town's obligation may be met with age
restricted units. At least half of all affordable units in the town's plan
shall be available to families.
         (d)   In each affordable development, at least 50% of the restricted
units within each bedroom distribution shall be low-income units.
         (e)   Affordable developments that are not age-restricted shall be
structured in conjunction with realistic market demands such that:
            [1]   The combined number of efficiency and one-bedroom units shall
be no greater than 20% of the total low- and moderate-income units;
            [2]   At least 30% of all low- and moderate-income units shall be
two bedroom units;
            [3]   At least 20% of all low- and moderate-income units shall be
three bedroom units; and
            [4]   The remaining units may be allocated among two and three
bedroom units at the discretion of the developer.
         (f)   Affordable developments that are age-restricted shall be
structured such that the number of bedrooms shall equal the number of age-
restricted low- and moderate-income units within the inclusionary development.
This standard may be met by having all one-bedroom units or by having a two-
bedroom unit for each efficiency unit.
      (2)   Accessibility requirements:
         (a)   The first floor of all restricted townhouse dwelling units and
all restricted units in all other multistory buildings shall be subject to the
technical design standards of the Barrier Free Sub Code, N.J.A.C. 5:23-7 and
the following:
         (b)   All restricted townhouse dwelling units and all restricted units
in other multistory buildings in which a restricted dwelling unit is attached
to at least one other dwelling unit shall have the following features:
            [1]   An adaptable toilet and bathing facility on the first floor;
            [2]   An adaptable kitchen on the first floor;
            [3]   An interior accessible route of travel on the first floor;
            [4]   An adaptable room that can be used as a bedroom, with a door
or the casing for the installation of a door, on the first floor;
            [5]   If not all of the foregoing requirements in (b)[1] through
(b)[4] can be satisfied, then an interior accessible route of travel must be
provided between stories within an individual unit, but if all of the terms of
paragraphs (b)[1] through (b)[4] above have been satisfied, then an interior
accessible route of travel shall not be required between stories within an
individual unit; and
            [6]   An accessible entranceway as set forth at P.L. 2005, c. 350
(N.J.S.A. 52:27D-311a, et seq.) and the Barrier Free Sub Code, N.J.A.C. 5:23-7,
or evidence that Hammonton has collected funds from the developer sufficient to
make 10% of the adaptable entrances in the development accessible:
               [a]   Where a unit has been constructed with an adaptable
entrance, upon the request of a person with disabilities who is purchasing or
will reside in the dwelling unit, an accessible entrance shall be installed.
               [b]   To this end, the builder of restricted units shall deposit
funds within the Town of Hammonton's Affordable Housing Trust Fund sufficient
to install accessible entrances in 10% of the affordable units that have been
constructed with adaptable entrances.
               [c]   The funds deposited under paragraph (2)(b)[6][b] above
shall be used by the Town of Hammonton for the sole purpose of making the
adaptable entrance of an affordable unit accessible when requested to do so by
a person with a disability who occupies or intends to occupy the unit and
requires an accessible entrance.
               [d]   The developer of the restricted units shall submit a
design plan and cost estimate to the construction official of the Town of
Hammonton for the conversion of adaptable to accessible entrances.
               [e]   Once the construction official has determined that the
design plan to convert the unit entrances from adaptable to accessible meet the
requirements of the Barrier Free Sub Code, N.J.A.C. 5:23-7, and that the cost
estimate of such conversion is reasonable, payment shall be made to the Town's
Affordable Housing Trust Fund in care of the Town Chief Financial Officer who
shall ensure that the funds are deposited into the Affordable Housing Trust
Fund and appropriately earmarked.
               [f]   Full compliance with the foregoing provisions shall not be
required where an entity can demonstrate that it is "site impracticable" to
meet the requirements. Determinations of site impracticability shall be in
compliance with the Barrier Free Sub Code, N.J.A.C. 5:23-7.
      (3)   Design:
         (a)   In inclusionary developments, to the extent possible, low- and
moderate-income units shall be integrated with the market units.
         (b)   In inclusionary developments, low- and moderate-income units
shall have access to all of the same common elements and facilities as the
market units.
      (4)   Maximum rents and sales prices:
         (a)   In establishing rents and sales prices of affordable housing
units, the Administrative Agent shall follow the procedures set forth in UHAC,
utilizing the regional income limits established by COAH or a successor entity.
         (b)   The maximum rent for restricted rental units within each
affordable development shall be affordable to households earning no more than
60% of median income, and the average rent for restricted rental units shall be
affordable to households earning no more than 52% of median income.
         (c)   The developers and/or municipal sponsors of restricted rental
units shall establish at least one rent for each bedroom type for both low-
income and moderate-income units, provided that at least 13% of all low-and
moderate-income rental units shall be affordable to very low-income households,
earning 30% or less of the regional median household income, with such very low
income units counting toward the low income housing requirement.
         (d)   The maximum sales price of restricted ownership units within
each affordable development shall be affordable to households earning no more
than 70% of median income, and each affordable development must achieve an
affordability average of 55% for restricted ownership units; in achieving this
affordability average, moderate-income ownership units must be available for at
least three different sales prices for each bedroom type, and low-income
ownership units must be available for at least two different sales prices for
each bedroom type.
         (e)   In determining the initial sales prices and rent levels for
compliance with the affordability average requirements for restricted units
other than assisted living facilities and age-restricted developments, the
following standards shall be used:
            [1]   A studio shall be affordable to a one-person household;
            [2]   A one-bedroom unit shall be affordable to a one and one-half
person household;
            [3]   A two-bedroom unit shall be affordable to a three-person
household;
            [4]   A three-bedroom unit shall be affordable to a four and one-
half person household; and
            [5]   A four-bedroom unit shall be affordable to a six-person
household.
         (f)   In determining the initial sales prices and rents for compliance
with the affordability average requirements for restricted units in assisted
living facilities and age-restricted developments, the following standards
shall be used:
            [1]   A studio shall be affordable to a one-person household;
            [2]   A one-bedroom unit shall be affordable to a one and one-half
person household; and
            [3]   A two-bedroom unit shall be affordable to a two-person
household or to two one-person households.
         (g)   The initial purchase price for all restricted ownership units
shall be calculated so that the monthly carrying cost of the unit, including
principal and interest (based on a mortgage loan equal to 95% of the purchase
price and the Federal Reserve H.15 rate of interest), taxes, homeowner and
private mortgage insurance and condominium or homeowner association fees do not
exceed 28% of the eligible monthly income of the appropriate size household as
determined under N.J.A.C. 5:80-26.4, as may be amended and supplemented;
provided, however, that the price shall be subject to the affordability average
requirement of N.J.A.C. 5:80-26.3, as may be amended and supplemented.
         (h)   The initial rent for a restricted rental unit shall be
calculated so as not to exceed 30% of the eligible monthly income of the
appropriate size household, including an allowance for tenant paid utilities,
as determined under N.J.A.C. 5:80-26.4, as may be amended and supplemented;
provided, however, that the rent shall be subject to the affordability average
requirement of N.J.A.C. 5:80-26.3, as may be amended and supplemented.
         (i)   The price of owner-occupied low- and moderate-income units may
increase annually based on the percentage increase in the regional median
income limit for each housing region. In no event shall the maximum resale
price established by the administrative agent be lower than the last recorded
purchase price.
         (j)   The rent of low- and moderate-income units may be increased
annually based on the permitted percentage increase in the Housing Consumer
Price Index for the United States. This increase shall not exceed nine percent
in any one year. Rents for units constructed pursuant to low- income housing
tax credit regulations shall be indexed pursuant to the regulations governing
low- income housing tax credits.
   G.   Utilities.
      (1)   Affordable units shall utilize the same type of heating source as
market units within an inclusionary development.
      (2)   Tenant-paid utilities included in the utility allowance shall be
set forth in the lease and shall be consistent with the utility allowance
approved by HUD for its Section 8 program.
   H.   Occupancy standards.
      (1)   In referring certified households to specific restricted units, the
administrative agent shall, to the extent feasible and without causing an undue
delay in the occupancy of a unit, strive to:
         (a)   Provide an occupant for each bedroom;
         (b)   Provide children of different sexes with separate bedrooms;
         (c)   Provide separate bedrooms for parents and children; and
         (d)   Prevent more than two persons from occupying a single bedroom.
   I.   Control periods for restricted ownership units and enforcement
mechanisms.
      (1)   Control periods for restricted ownership units shall be in
accordance with N.J.A.C. 5:80-26.5, as may be amended and supplemented, and
each restricted ownership unit shall remain subject to the requirements of this
section for a period of at least 30 years, until Hammonton takes action to
release the unit from such requirements; prior to such action, a restricted
ownership unit shall remain subject to the requirements of N.J.A.C. 5:80-26.1,
as may be amended and supplemented.
      (2)   The affordability control period for a restricted ownership unit
shall commence on the date the initial certified household takes title to the
unit.
      (3)   Prior to the issuance of the initial certificate of occupancy for a
restricted ownership unit and upon each successive sale during the period of
restricted ownership, the administrative agent shall determine the restricted
price for the unit and shall also determine the non-restricted, fair market
value of the unit based on either an appraisal or the unit's equalized assessed
value without the restrictions in place.
      (4)   At the time of the initial sale of the unit, the initial purchaser
shall execute and deliver to the administrative agent a recapture note
obligating the purchaser (as well as the purchaser's heirs, successors and
assigns) to repay, upon the first non-exempt sale after the unit's release from
the restrictions set forth in this section, an amount equal to the difference
between the unit's non-restricted fair market value and its restricted price,
and the recapture note shall be secured by a recapture lien evidenced by a duly
recorded mortgage on the unit.
      (5)   The affordability controls set forth in this section shall remain
in effect despite the entry and enforcement of any judgment of foreclosure with
respect to restricted ownership units.
      (6)   A restricted ownership unit shall be required to obtain a
Continuing Certificate of Occupancy or a certified statement from the
Construction Official stating that the unit meets all Code standards upon the
first transfer of title following the removal of the restrictions provided
under N.J.A.C. 5:80-26.5(a), as may be amended and supplemented.
   J.   Price restrictions for restricted ownership units, homeowner
association fees and resale prices.
      (1)   Price restrictions for restricted ownership units shall be in
accordance with N.J.A.C. 5:80-26.1, as may be amended and supplemented,
including:
         (a)   The initial purchase price for a restricted ownership unit shall
be approved by the administrative agent.
         (b)   The administrative agent shall approve all resale prices, in
writing and in advance of the resale, to assure compliance with the foregoing
standards.
         (c)   The master deeds of inclusionary developments shall provide no
distinction between the condominium or homeowner association fees and special
assessments paid by low- and moderate-income purchasers and those paid by
market purchasers.
         (d)   The owners of restricted ownership units may apply to the
administrative agent to increase the maximum sales price for the unit on the
basis of anticipated capital improvements. Eligible capital improvements shall
be those that render the unit suitable for a larger household or the addition
of a bathroom.
   K.   Buyer income eligibility.
      (1)   Buyer income eligibility for restricted ownership units shall be in
accordance with N.J.A.C. 5:80-26.1, as may be amended and supplemented, such
that low-income ownership units shall be reserved for households with a gross
household income less than or equal to 50% of median income and moderate-income
ownership units shall be reserved for households with a gross household income
less than 80% of median income.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, however, the administrative agent
may, upon approval by the Town Council, and subject to the Court's approval,
permit moderate-income purchasers to buy low-income units in housing markets if
the administrative agent determines that there is an insufficient number of
eligible low-income purchasers to permit prompt occupancy of the units. All
such low-income units to be sold to moderate-income households shall retain the
required pricing and pricing restrictions for low-income units.
      (3)   A certified household that purchases a restricted ownership unit
must occupy it as the certified household's principal residence and shall not
lease the unit; provided, however, that the administrative agent may permit the
owner of a restricted ownership unit, upon application and a showing of
hardship, to lease the restricted unit to another certified household for a
period not to exceed one year.
      (4)   The administrative agent shall certify a household as eligible for
a restricted ownership unit when the household is a low-income household or a
moderate-income household, as applicable to the unit, and the estimated monthly
housing cost for the particular unit (including principal, interest, taxes,
homeowner and private mortgage insurance and condominium or homeowner
association fees, as applicable) does not exceed 33% of the household's
eligible    monthly income.
   L.   Limitations on indebtedness secured by ownership unit; subordination.
      (1)   Prior to incurring any indebtedness to be secured by a restricted
ownership unit, the owner shall apply to the administrative agent for a
determination in writing that the proposed indebtedness complies with the
provisions of this section, and the administrative agent shall issue such
determination prior to the owner incurring such indebtedness.
      (2)   With the exception of First Purchase Money Mortgages, neither an
owner nor a lender shall at any time cause or permit the total indebtedness
secured by a restricted ownership unit to exceed 95% of the maximum allowable
resale price of the unit, as such price is determined by the administrative
agent in accordance with N.J.A.C.5:80-26.6(b).
   M.   Capital improvements to ownership units.
      (1)   The owners of restricted ownership units may apply to the
administrative agent to increase the maximum sales price for the unit on the
basis of capital improvements made since the purchase of the unit. Eligible
capital improvements shall be those that    render the unit suitable for a
larger household or that adds an additional bathroom. In no event shall the
maximum sales price of an improved housing unit exceed the limits of
affordability for the larger household.
      (2)   Upon the resale of a restricted ownership unit, all items of
property that are permanently affixed to the unit or were included when the
unit was initially restricted (for example, refrigerator, range, washer, dryer,
dishwasher, wall-to-wall carpeting) shall be included in the maximum allowable
resale price. Other items may be sold to the purchaser at a reasonable price
that has been approved by the administrative agent at the time of the signing
of the agreement to purchase. The purchase of central air conditioning
installed subsequent to the initial sale of the unit and not included in the
base price may be made a condition of the unit resale provided the price, which
shall be subject to 10-year, straight-line depreciation, has been approved by
the administrative agent. Unless otherwise approved by the administrative
agent, the purchase of any property other than central air conditioning shall
not be made a condition of the unit resale. The owner and the purchaser must
personally certify at the time of closing that no unapproved transfer of funds
for the purpose of selling and receiving property has taken place at the time
of or as a condition of resale.
   N.   Control periods for restricted rental units.
      (1)   Control periods for restricted rental units shall be in accordance
with N.J.A.C. 5:80-26.11, as may be amended and supplemented, and each
restricted rental unit shall remain subject to the requirements of this section
for a period of at least 30 years, until Hammonton takes action to release the
unit from such requirements. Prior to such action, a restricted rental unit
shall remain subject to the requirements of N.J.A.C. 5:80-26.1, as may be
amended and supplemented.
      (2)   Deeds of all real property that include restricted rental units
shall contain deed restriction language. The deed restriction shall have
priority over all mortgages on the property, and the deed restriction shall be
filed by the developer or seller with the records office of the County of
Atlantic. The deed shall also identify each affordable unit by apartment number
and/or address and whether that unit is designated as a very low, low or
moderate income unit. Neither the unit nor its affordability designation shall
change throughout the term of the deed restriction. A copy of the filed
document shall be provided to the administrative agent within 30 days of the
receipt of a Certificate of Occupancy.
      (3)   A restricted rental unit shall remain subject to the affordability
controls of this section despite the occurrence of any of the following events:
         (a)   Sublease or assignment of the lease of the unit;
         (b)   Sale or other voluntary transfer of the ownership of the unit;
or
         (c)   The entry and enforcement of any judgment of foreclosure on the
property containing the unit.
   O.   Rent restrictions for rental units; leases.
      (1)   A written lease shall be required for all restricted rental units
and tenants shall be responsible for security deposits and the full amount of
the rent as stated on the lease. A copy of the current lease for each
restricted rental unit shall be provided to the administrative agent.
      (2)   No additional fees or charges shall be added to the approved rent
(except, in the case of units in an assisted living residence, to cover the
customary charges for food and services) without the express written approval
of the administrative    .
      (3)   Application fees (including the charge for any credit check) shall
not exceed 5% of the monthly rent of the applicable restricted unit and shall
be payable to the administrative agent to be applied to the costs of
administering the controls applicable to the unit as set forth in this section.
      (4)   No rent control ordinance or other pricing restriction shall be
applicable to either the market units or the affordable units in any
development in which at least 15% of the total number of dwelling units are
restricted rental units in compliance with this section.
   P.   Tenant income eligibility.
      (1)   Tenant income eligibility shall be in accordance with N.J.A.C. 5:
80-26.13, as may be amended and supplemented, and shall be determined as
follows:
         (a)   Very low-income rental units shall be reserved for households
with a gross household income less than or equal to 30% of median income.
         (b)   Low-income rental units shall be reserved for households with a
gross household income less than or equal to 50% of median income.
         (c)   Moderate-income rental units shall be reserved for households
with a gross household income less than 80% of median income.
      (2)   The administrative agent shall certify a household as eligible for
a restricted rental unit when the household is a very low-income household,
low-income household or a moderate-income household, as applicable to the unit,
and the rent proposed for the unit does not exceed 35% (40% for age-restricted
units) of the household's eligible monthly income as determined pursuant to
N.J.A.C. 5:80-26.16, as may be amended and supplemented; provided, however,
that this limit may be exceeded if one or more of the following circumstances
exists:
         (a)   The household currently pays more than 35% (40% for households
eligible for age-restricted units) of its gross household income for rent, and
the proposed rent will reduce its housing costs;
         (b)   The household has consistently paid more than 35% (40% for
households eligible for age-restricted units) of eligible monthly income for
rent in the past and has proven its ability to pay;
         (c)   The household is currently in substandard or overcrowded living
conditions;
         (d)   The household documents the existence of assets with which the
household proposes to supplement the rent payments; or
         (e)   The household documents reliable anticipated third-party
assistance from an outside source such as a family member in a form acceptable
to the administrative agent and the owner of the unit.
      (3)   The applicant shall file documentation sufficient to establish the
existence of the circumstances in (1)(a) through (2)(e) above with the
administrative agent, who shall counsel the household on budgeting.
   Q.   Municipal housing liaison.
      (1)   The Town of Hammonton shall appoint a specific municipal employee
to serve as a Municipal Housing Liaison responsible for administering the
affordable housing program, including affordability controls, the Affirmative
Marketing Plan, monitoring and reporting, and, where applicable, supervising
any contracted administrative agent. Hammonton shall adopt an section creating
the position of Municipal Housing Liaison. Hammonton shall adopt a Resolution
appointing a Municipal Housing Liaison. The Municipal Housing Liaison shall be
appointed by the governing body and may be a full or part time municipal
employee. The Municipal Housing Liaison shall be approved by the Court and
shall be duly qualified through a training program sponsored by Affordable
Housing Professionals of New Jersey before assuming the duties of Municipal
Housing Liaison.
      (2)   The Municipal Housing Liaison shall be responsible for oversight
and administration of the affordable housing program for Hammonton, including
the following responsibilities which may not be contracted out to the
administrative agent:
         (a)   Serving as Hammonton's primary point of contact for all
inquiries from the state, affordable housing providers, administrative agents
and interested households;
         (b)   Monitoring the status of all restricted units in Hammonton's
Fair Share Plan;
         (c)   Compiling, verifying and submitting annual monitoring reports as
may be required by the Court;
         (d)   Coordinating meetings with affordable housing providers and
administrative agents, as needed; and
         (e)   Attending continuing education opportunities on affordability
controls, compliance monitoring and affirmative marketing at least annually and
more often as needed.
      (3)   Subject to the approval of the Court, the Town of Hammonton shall
designate one or more administrative agent(s) to administer newly constructed
affordable units in accordance with UHAC. An Operating Manual for each
affordable housing program shall be provided by the administrative agent(s) to
be adopted by resolution of the governing body and subject to approval of the
Court. The Operating Manual(s) shall be available for public inspection in the
office of the Town Clerk, in the office of the Municipal Housing Liaison, and
in the office(s) of the administrative agent(s). The Municipal Housing Liaison
shall supervise the contracting administrative agent(s).
   R.   Administrative agent. The administrative agent shall be an independent
entity serving under contract to and reporting to the municipality. For new
sale and rental developments, all of the fees of the administrative agent shall
be paid by the owners of the affordable units for which the services of the
administrative agent are required. For resale's, single family homeowners and
condominium homeowners shall be required to pay 3% of the sales price for
services provided by the administrative agent related to the resale of their
homes. That fee shall be collected at closing and paid directly to the
administrative agent. The administrative agent shall perform the duties and
responsibilities of an administrative agent as set forth in UHAC, including
those set forth in Sections 5:80-26.14,16 and 18 thereof, which include:
      (1)   Affirmative marketing:
         (a)   Conducting an outreach process to affirmatively market
affordable housing units in accordance with the Affirmative Marketing Plan of
the Town of Hammonton and the provisions of N.J.A.C. 5:80-26.15; and
         (b)   Providing counseling or contracting to provide counseling
services to low- and moderate-income applicants on subjects such as budgeting,
credit issues, mortgage qualification, rental lease requirements, and landlord/
tenant law.
      (2)   Household certification:
         (a)   Soliciting, scheduling, conducting and following up on
interviews with interested households;
         (b)   Conducting interviews and obtaining sufficient documentation of
gross income and assets upon which to base a determination of income
eligibility for a low- or moderate-income unit;
         (c)   Providing written notification to each applicant as to the
determination of eligibility or non-eligibility;
         (d)   Requiring that all certified applicants for restricted units
execute a certificate substantially in the form, as applicable, of either the
ownership or rental certificates set forth in Appendices J and K of N.J.A.C. 5:
80-26.1 et seq.;
         (e)   Creating and maintaining a referral list of eligible applicant
households living in the housing region and eligible applicant households with
members working in the housing region where the units are located; and
         (f)   Employing a random selection process as provided in the
Affirmative Marketing Plan of the Town of Hammonton when referring households
for certification to affordable units.
      (3)   Affordability controls:
         (a)   Furnishing to attorneys or closing agents forms of deed
restrictions and mortgages for recording at the time of conveyance of title of
each restricted unit;
         (b)   Creating and maintaining a file on each restricted unit for its
control period, including the recorded deed with restrictions, recorded
mortgage and note, as appropriate;
         (c)   Ensuring that the removal of the deed restrictions and
cancellation of the mortgage note are effectuated and properly filed with the
Atlantic County Register of Deeds or County Clerk's office after the
termination of the affordability controls for each restricted unit;
         (d)   Communicating with lenders regarding foreclosures; and
         (e)   Ensuring the issuance of Continuing Certificates of Occupancy or
certifications pursuant to N.J.A.C. 5:80-26.10.
      (4)   Resale's and re-rentals:
         (a)   Instituting and maintaining an effective means of communicating
information between owners and the administrative agent regarding the
availability of restricted units for resale or re-rental; and
         (b)   Instituting and maintaining an effective means of communicating
information to low- and moderate-income households regarding the availability
of restricted units for resale or re-rental.
      (5)   Processing requests from unit owners:
         (a)   Reviewing and approving requests for determination from owners
of restricted units who wish to take out home equity loans or refinance during
the term of their ownership that the amount of indebtedness to be incurred will
not violate the terms of this section;
         (b)   Reviewing and approving requests to increase sales prices from
owners of restricted units who wish to make capital improvements to the units
that would affect the selling price, such authorizations to be limited to those
improvements resulting in additional bedrooms or bathrooms and the depreciated
cost of central air conditioning systems;
         (c)   Notifying the municipality of an owner's intent to sell a
restricted unit; and
         (d)   Making determinations on requests by owners of restricted units
for hardship waivers.
      (6)   Enforcement:
         (a)   Securing annually from the municipality a list of all affordable
housing units for which tax bills are mailed to absentee owners, and notifying
all such owners that they must either move back to their unit or sell it;
         (b)   Securing from all developers and sponsors of restricted units,
at the earliest point of contact in the processing of the project or
development, written acknowledgment of the requirement that no restricted unit
can be offered, or in any other way committed, to any person, other than a
household duly certified to the unit by the administrative agent;
         (c)   The posting annually in all rental properties, including two-
family homes, of a notice as to the maximum permitted rent together with the
telephone number of the administrative agent where complaints of excess rent or
other charges can be made;
         (d)   Sending annual mailings to all owners of affordable dwelling
units, reminding them of the notices and requirements outlined in N.J.A.C. 5:
80-26.18(d)4;
         (e)   Establishing a program for diverting unlawful rent payments to
the municipality's Affordable Housing Trust Fund; and
         (f)   Creating and publishing a written operating manual for each
affordable housing program administered by the Administrative Agent, to be
approved by the Town Council and the Court, setting forth procedures for
administering the affordability controls.
      (7)   Additional responsibilities:
         (a)   The administrative agent shall have the authority to take all
actions necessary and appropriate to carry out its responsibilities hereunder.
         (b)   The administrative agent shall prepare monitoring reports for
submission to the Municipal Housing Liaison in time to meet any monitoring
requirements and deadlines imposed by the Court.
         (c)   The administrative agent shall attend continuing education
sessions on affordability controls, compliance monitoring, and affirmative
marketing at least annually and more often as needed.
   S.   Affirmative marketing requirements.
      (1)   The Town of Hammonton shall adopt by resolution an Affirmative
Marketing Plan, subject to approval of the Court that is compliant with
N.J.A.C. 5:80-26.15, as may be amended and supplemented.
      (2)   The Affirmative Marketing Plan is a regional marketing strategy
designed to attract buyers and/or renters of all majority and minority groups,
regardless of race, creed, color, national origin, ancestry, marital or
familial status, gender, affectional or sexual orientation, disability, age or
number of children to housing units which are being marketed by a developer,
sponsor or owner of affordable housing. The Affirmative Marketing Plan is
intended to target those potentially eligible persons who are least likely to
apply for affordable units in that region. In addition, as a result of the
Settlement Agreement with FSHC, the Affirmative Marketing Plan shall require
the notification of the New Jersey State NAACP, Mishap, the NAACP Atlantic City
and Cape May Branches, FSHC, and the Latino Action Network of affordable
housing opportunities. It is a continuing program that directs marketing
activities toward Housing Region 6 and is required to be followed throughout
the period of restriction.
      (3)   The Affirmative Marketing Plan shall provide a regional preference
for all households that live and/or work in Housing Region 6, comprised of
Atlantic Cape May, Cumberland and Salem Counties.
      (4)   The municipality has the ultimate responsibility for adopting the
Affirmative Marketing Plan and for the proper administration of the Affirmative
Marketing Program, including initial sales and rentals and resales and re-
rentals. The Administrative Agent designated by the Town of Hammonton shall
implement the Affirmative Marketing Plan to assure the affirmative marketing of
all affordable units.
      (5)   In implementing the Affirmative Marketing Plan, the administrative
agent shall provide a list of counseling services to low- and moderate-income
applicants on subjects such as budgeting, credit issues, mortgage
qualification, rental lease requirements, and landlord/tenant law.
      (6)   The Affirmative Marketing Plan shall describe the media to be used
in advertising and publicizing the availability of housing. In implementing the
Affirmative Marketing Plan, the administrative agent shall consider the use of
language translations where appropriate.
      (7)   The affirmative marketing process for available affordable units
shall begin at least four months (120 days) prior to the expected date of
occupancy.
      (8)   Applications for affordable housing shall be available in several
locations, including, at a minimum, the County Administration Building and/or
the County Library for each county within the housing region; the municipal
administration building and the municipal library in the municipality in which
the units are located; and the developer's rental office. Pre-applications
shall be emailed or mailed to prospective applicants upon request.
      (9)   The costs of advertising and affirmative marketing of the
affordable units shall be the responsibility of the developer, sponsor or
owner.
   T.   Enforcement of affordable housing regulations.
      (1)   Upon the occurrence of a breach of any of the regulations governing
the affordable unit by an owner, developer or tenant, the municipality shall
have all remedies provided at law or equity, including but not limited to
foreclosure, tenant eviction, a requirement for household recertification,
acceleration of all sums due under a mortgage, recuperation of any funds from a
sale in violation of the regulations, injunctive relief to prevent further
violation of the regulations, entry on the premises, and specific performance.
      (2)   After providing written notice of a violation to an owner,
developer or tenant of a low- or moderate-income unit and advising the owner,
developer or tenant of the penalties for such violations, the municipality may
take the following action(s) against the owner, developer or tenant for any
violation that remains uncured for a period of 60 days after service of the
written notice:
         (a)   The municipality may file a court action pursuant to N.J.S.A.
2A:58-11 alleging a violation or violations of the regulations governing the
affordable housing unit. If the owner, developer or tenant is adjudged by the
Court to have violated any provision of the regulations governing affordable
housing units the owner, developer or tenant shall be subject to one or more of
the following penalties, at the discretion of the Court:
            [1]   A fine of not more than $500.00 per day or imprisonment for a
period not to exceed 90 days, or both, provided that each and every day that
the violation continues or exists shall be considered a separate and specific
violation of these provisions and not a continuation of the initial offense; In
the case of an owner who has rented a low- or moderate-income unit in violation
of the regulations governing affordable housing units, payment into the City of
Linwood Affordable Housing Trust Fund of the gross amount of rent illegally
collected;
            [2]   In the case of an owner who has rented a low- or moderate-
income unit in violation of the regulations governing affordable housing units,
payment of an innocent tenant's reasonable relocation costs, as determined by
the Court.
         (b)   The municipality may file a court action in the Superior Court
seeking a judgment that would result in the termination of the owner's equity
or other interest in the unit, in the nature of a mortgage foreclosure. Any
such judgment shall be enforceable as if the same were a judgment of default of
the First Purchase Money Mortgage and shall constitute a lien against the low-
or moderate-income unit.
            [1]   The judgment shall be enforceable, at the option of the
municipality, by means of an execution sale by the Sheriff, at which time the
low- and moderate-income unit of the violating owner shall be sold at a sale
price which is not less than the amount necessary to fully satisfy and pay off
any First Purchase Money Mortgage and prior liens and the costs of the
enforcement proceedings incurred by the municipality, including attorney's
fees. The violating owner shall have his right to possession terminated as well
as his title conveyed pursuant to the Sheriffs sale.
            [2]   The proceeds of the Sheriffs sale shall first be applied to
satisfy the First Purchase Money Mortgage lien and any prior liens upon the
low- and moderate-income unit. The excess, if any, shall be applied to
reimburse the municipality for any and all costs and expenses incurred in
connection with either the court action resulting in the judgment of violation
or the Sheriffs sale. In the event that the proceeds from the Sheriffs sale are
insufficient to reimburse the municipality in full as aforesaid, the violating
owner shall be personally responsible for the full extent of such deficiency,
in addition to any and all costs incurred by the municipality in connection
with collecting such deficiency. In the event that a surplus remains after
satisfying all of the above, such surplus, if any, shall be placed in escrow by
the municipality for the owner and shall be held in such escrow for a maximum
period of two years or until such earlier time as the owner shall make a claim
with the municipality for such. Failure of the owner to claim such balance
within the two-year period shall automatically result in a forfeiture of such
balance to the municipality. Any interest accrued or earned on such balance
while being held in escrow shall belong to and shall be paid to the
municipality, whether such balance shall be paid to the owner or forfeited to
the municipality.
            [3]   Foreclosure by the municipality due to violation of the
regulations governing affordable housing units shall not extinguish the
restrictions of the regulations governing affordable housing units as the same
apply to the low- and moderate-income unit. Title shall be conveyed to the
purchaser at the Sheriffs sale, subject to the restrictions and provisions of
the regulations governing the affordable housing unit. The owner determined to
be in violation of the provisions of this plan and from whom title and
possession were taken by means of the Sheriffs sale shall not be entitled to
any right of redemption.
            [4]   If there are no bidders at the Sheriffs sale, or if
insufficient amounts are bid to satisfy the First Purchase Money Mortgage and
any prior liens, the municipality may acquire title to the low- and moderate-
income unit by satisfying the First Purchase Money Mortgage and any prior liens
and crediting the violating owner with an amount equal to the difference
between the First Purchase Money Mortgage and any prior liens and costs of the
enforcement proceedings, including legal fees and the maximum resale price for
which the low- and moderate-income unit could have been sold under the terms of
the regulations governing affordable housing units. This excess shall be
treated in the same manner as the excess which would have been realized from an
actual sale as previously described.
            [5]   Failure of the low- and moderate-income unit to be either
sold at the Sheriffs sale or acquired by the municipality shall obligate the
owner to accept an offer to purchase from any qualified purchaser which may be
referred to the owner by the municipality, with such offer to purchase being
equal to the maximum resale price of the low- and moderate-income unit as
permitted by the regulations governing affordable housing units.
            [6]   The owner shall remain fully obligated, responsible and
liable for complying with the terms and restrictions of governing affordable
housing units until such time as title is conveyed from the owner.
   U.   Appeals. Appeals from all decisions of an administrative agent
appointed pursuant to this section shall be filed in writing with the Court.
ARTICLE XIV Penalties; Enforcement; Duration of Variances
§ 175-163. Violations and penalties.
   A.   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be subject to a fine not exceeding $500 and/or imprisonment in
the county jail for a term not exceeding 90 days. Each and every violation of
this chapter and each day that a violation of this chapter continues shall be
deemed to be a separate and distinct violation thereof.
   B.   Any corporation or partnership which conceals the names of the
stockholders owning 10% or more of its stock, or of the individual partners
owning a ten-percent-or-greater interest in the partnership, as the case may
be, shall be subject to a fine of $1,000 to $10,000 which shall be recovered in
the name of the town in any court of record in the state in a summary manner
pursuant to the Penalty Enforcement Law (N.J.S.A. 2A:58-1 et seq.).
   C.   If before final subdivision approval has been granted, any person
transfers or sells or agrees to transfer or sell, except pursuant to an
agreement expressly conditioned on final subdivision approval, as owner or
agent, any land which forms a part of a subdivision for which town approval is
required by ordinance pursuant to this act, such person shall be subject to a
penalty not to exceed $1,000, and each lot disposition so made may be deemed a
separate violation.
§ 175-164. Enforcement.
   A.   The penalties set forth in §
175-163 shall not be the exclusive remedy available and nothing in this chapter
shall prevent the application for and obtaining of injunctive relief as set
forth below.
   B.   In case any building or structure is erected, constructed, altered,
repaired, converted or maintained or any building, structure or land is used in
violation of this chapter or of any other ordinance or other regulation made
under authority conferred hereby, the proper local authorities of the town or
an interested party, in addition to other remedies, may institute any
appropriate action or proceedings to prevent such unlawful erection,
construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair, conversion, maintenance or
use, to restrain, correct or abate such violation, to prevent the occupancy of
said building, structure or land, to prevent any illegal act, conduct, business
or use in or about such premises.
   C.   Civil actions.
      (1)   In addition to the foregoing, the town may institute and maintain a
civil action:
         (a)   For injunctive relief.
         (b)   To set aside and invalidate any conveyance made pursuant to a
contract of sale and before final subdivision approval has been granted if a
certificate of compliance has not been issued in accordance with N.J.S.A. 40:
55D-56.
      (2)   In any action, the transferee, purchaser or grantee shall be
entitled to a lien upon the portion of the land from which the subdivision was
made that remains in the possession of the developer or his assigns or
successors to secure the return of any deposits made or purchase price paid
and, also, a reasonable search fee, survey expense and title closing expense,
if any. Any such action must be brought within two years after the date of the
recording of the instrument of transfer, sale or conveyance of said land or
within six years if unrecorded.
   D.   Neither the Planning Board, Zoning Board of Adjustment nor the Town
Council shall approve the application of any corporation or partnership which
does not comply with this chapter.
   E.   The Planning Board or Zoning Board of Adjustment, as the case may be,
may by resolution rescind a prior resolution approving a subdivision or site
plan if the applicant fails to comply with the conditions of said approving
resolution or if another referring authority imposes conditions contrary to the
original resolution.
§ 175-165. Duration of variances.
   A.   Any variance granted under this chapter by the Planning Board or Zoning
Board of Adjustment if not commenced shall be automatically null and void upon
the expiration of the time period set forth hereunder, unless the Board
granting such variance specifically restricts or allows a length of time
varying from that mandated by this section, by expressly stating same in the
resolution thereof.
   B.   When a variance is granted by the Zoning Board of Adjustment pursuant
to §
175-28C and D and such application is not in conjunction with a subdivision,
site plan or conditional use approval in accordance with §
175-28B, then the successful applicant must, within one year from the date of
such favorable determination, commence development as approved. If the
successful applicant has not commenced development within the above-mentioned
year, said variance is automatically null and void unless said applicant shall
receive from the Zoning Board of Adjustment a renewal not to exceed one year of
the determination. If at the end of the extension an applicant has not
commenced development, that variance is automatically null and void and may not
be further renewed.
   C.   When a variance is granted by the Zoning Board of Adjustment in
conjunction with subdivision, site plan or conditional use approval pursuant to
§
175-28B, or when the Planning Board grants a variance in conjunction with
subdivision, site plan or conditional use approval pursuant to §
175-19G(1)(a), then the duration of any variance so granted shall be the time
period, including any period of extension or suspension set forth in §§
175-81 through
175-85 for the protection of subdivision and site plan approval, and in §
175-59 for conditional use approval. If the successful applicant does not
commence development within the time limits set forth for the protection of
such approvals, then any variance so granted in conjunction therewith shall be
automatically null and void unless said applicant shall receive from the Board
reviewing the application a renewal not to exceed one year of the
determination. If at the end of the extension the applicant has not commenced
development, the variance is automatically null and void and may not be further
renewed.
ARTICLE XV Outstanding Permits, Approvals and Variances
§ 175-166. Effect on outstanding permits, approvals and variances.
   Nothing in this chapter shall require any change in a building permit, site
plan or zoning variance which was approved before the enactment of this chapter
but is in violation of this chapter, provided that construction based on such a
building permit shall have been started within the effective period of the
permit but not to exceed one year from the effective date of this chapter and,
in the case of a site plan or variance, a building permit shall have been
issued within 90 days following the effective date of this chapter. In all
instances, the project shall be continuously pursued to completion, otherwise
said approvals and permits shall be void.
ARTICLE XVI Repealer; Severability; When Effective
§ 175-167. Repealer.
   All ordinances or parts of ordinances which are inconsistent with the
provisions of this chapter are hereby repealed to the extent of such
inconsistency. Upon the adopting of this chapter according to law, all
previously adopted subdivision, site plan and zoning ordinances and their
amendments are repealed.
§ 175-168. Severability.
   Should any section or provision of this chapter be declared by the courts to
be unconstitutional or invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of
the chapter as a whole or any part thereof other than the part so declared to
be unconstitutional or invalid.
§ 175-169. When effective; filing with county; amendments.
   A.   This chapter shall take effect 20 days after the first publication
thereof after final passage as provided by law.
   B.   The zoning, subdivision and site plan review powers of this chapter or
any revision or amendment thereto shall not take effect until a copy thereof
shall be filed with the County Planning Board. The Secretary of the County
Planning Board shall, within 10 days of the date of receipt of a written
request for copies of any such ordinance, make such available to any party so
requesting the same with said Secretary's certification that said copies are
true copies and that all filed amendments are included. A reasonable charge may
be made by the County Planning Board for said copies.
   C.   In amending this order, the Town Master Plan or any other ordinance
regulating the use of land, the town shall comply with all the regulations of
N.J.A.C. 7:50-3.45.
ARTICLE XVII Stormwater Management
[Added 8-28-2023 by Ord. No. 14-2023]
§ 175-170. Scope and purpose.
   A.   Policy Statement. Flood control, groundwater recharge, erosion control
and pollutant reduction shall be achieved using stormwater management measures,
including green infrastructure best management practices (BMPs) and
nonstructural stormwater management strategies. Green infrastructure BMPs and
low impact development should be utilized to meet the goal of maintaining
natural hydrology to reduce stormwater runoff volume, reduce erosion, encourage
infiltration and groundwater recharge, and reduce pollution. Green
infrastructure BMPs and low impact development should be developed based upon
physical site conditions and the origin, nature and the anticipated quantity,
or amount, of potential pollutants. Multiple stormwater management BMPs may be
necessary to achieve the established performance standards for water quality,
quantity, and groundwater recharge contained in this article.
   B.   Purpose. The purpose of this article is to establish minimum stormwater
management requirements and controls as authorized by the Pinelands Protection
Act (N.J.S.A. 13:18A-1 et seq.) and consistent with the Pinelands Comprehensive
Management Plan (CMP) (N.J.A.C. 7:50-1.1 et seq.) and the New Jersey Department
of Environmental Protection (NJDEP) Stormwater Management Regulations (N.J.A.C.
7:8-1.1 et seq.). The standards in this article are intended to minimize the
adverse impact of stormwater runoff on water quality and water quantity, to
facilitate groundwater recharge, and to control and minimize soil erosion,
stream channel erosion, sedimentation and pollution associated with stormwater
runoff. Moreover, Pinelands Area resources are to be protected in accordance
with the anti-degradation policies contained in the New Jersey Surface Water
Quality Standards (N.J.A.C. 7:9B-1.1 et seq.). Additionally, this article is
intended to ensure the adequacy of existing and proposed culverts and bridges
and to protect public safety through the proper design and operation of
stormwater BMPs. If there are any conflicts between a provision required by the
Pinelands CMP and a provision required by the NJDEP, the Pinelands CMP
provision shall apply.
   C.   Applicability.
      (1)   The terms "development," "major development" and "minor
development" are defined in §
175-171 in accordance with the Pinelands CMP (N.J.A.C. 7:50-2.11) and differ
from the definitions of "development" and "major development" contained in the
NJDEP Stormwater Management Regulations (N.J.A.C. 7:8-1.2).
      (2)   This article shall apply within the Pinelands Area to all major
development, and to minor development meeting the following criteria:
         (a)   Development involving the construction of four or fewer dwelling
units;
         (b)   Development involving any non-residential use and resulting in
an increase of greater than 1,000 square feet of regulated motor vehicle
surfaces; and
         (c)   Development involving the grading, clearing, or disturbance of
an area in excess of 5,000 square feet within any five-year period. For
development meeting this criterion, the stormwater management standards for
major development set forth in this article shall apply.
      (3)   This article shall apply to all development meeting the criteria of
(2) above that is undertaken by Hammonton Town.
      (4)   Except as provided in §
175-179, the exemptions, exceptions, applicability standards, and waivers of
strict compliance contained in the NJDEP Stormwater Management Regulations at
N.J.A.C. 7:8-1.1 et seq. shall not apply within the Pinelands Area.
   D.   Compatibility with other permit and ordinance requirements.
      (1)   Development approvals issued pursuant to this article are to be
considered an integral part of development approvals and do not relieve the
applicant of the responsibility to secure required permits or approvals for
activities regulated by any other applicable code, rule, act, or ordinance. In
their interpretation and application, the provisions of this article shall be
held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public health,
safety, and general welfare.
      (2)   This article is not intended to interfere with, abrogate, or annul
any other ordinances, rule or regulation, statute, or other provision of law
except that, where any provision of this article imposes restrictions different
from those imposed by any other ordinance, rule or regulation, or other
provision of law, the more restrictive provisions or higher standards shall
control.
      (3)   In the event that a regional stormwater management plan(s) is
prepared and formally adopted pursuant to N.J.A.C. 7:8-1.1 et seq. for any
drainage area(s) or watershed(s) of which Hammonton Town is a part, the
stormwater provisions of such a plan(s) shall be adopted by Hammonton Town
within one year of the adoption of a Regional Stormwater Management Plan
(RSWMP) as an amendment to an Areawide Water Quality Management Plan. Local
ordinances proposed to implement the RSWMP shall be submitted to the Pinelands
Commission for certification within six months of the adoption of the RSWMP per
N.J.A.C. 7:8 and the Pinelands CMP.
§ 175-171. Definitions.
For the purpose of this article, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meanings stated herein unless their use in the text
of this article clearly demonstrates a different meaning. When not inconsistent
with the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words
used in the plural number include the singular number, and words used in the
singular number include the plural number. The word "shall" is always mandatory
and not merely directory. The definitions below are the same as or based on the
corresponding definitions in the NJDEP Stormwater Management Rules at N.J.A.C.
7:8-1.2 unless otherwise defined in the Pinelands CMP at N.J.A.C. 7:50-2.11 in
which case the definition corresponds to the CMP definition.
   COMPACTION — The increase in soil bulk density.
   CONTRIBUTORY DRAINAGE AREA — The area from which stormwater runoff drains to
a stormwater management measure, not including the area of the stormwater
management measure itself.
   COUNTY REVIEW AGENCY — An agency designated by the County Commissioners to
review municipal stormwater management plans and implementing ordinance(s). The
county review agency may either be:
      (1)   A county planning agency; or
      (2)   A county water resource association created under N.J.S.A 58:16A-
55.5, if the ordinance or resolution delegates authority to approve,
conditionally approve, or disapprove municipal stormwater management plans and
implementing ordinances.
   DESIGN ENGINEER — A person professionally qualified and duly licensed in New
Jersey to perform engineering services that may include, but not necessarily be
limited to, development of project requirements, creation and development of
project design and preparation of drawings and specifications.
   DEVELOPMENT — The change of or enlargement of any use or disturbance of any
land, the performance of any building or mining operation, the division of land
into two or more parcels, and the creation or termination of rights of access
or riparian rights including, but not limited to:
      (1)   A change in type of use of a structure or land;
      (2)   A reconstruction, alteration of the size, or material change in the
external appearance of a structure or land;
      (3)   A material increase in the intensity of use of land, such as an
increase in the number of businesses, manufacturing establishments, offices or
dwelling units in a structure or on land;
      (4)   Commencement of resource extraction or drilling or excavation on a
parcel of land;
      (5)   Demolition of a structure or removal of trees;
      (6)   Commencement of forestry activities;
      (7)   Deposit of refuse, solid or liquid waste or fill on a parcel of
land;
      (8)   In connection with the use of land, the making of any material
change in noise levels, thermal conditions, or emissions of waste material; and
      (9)   Alteration, either physically or chemically, of a shore, bank, or
flood plain, seacoast, river, stream, lake, pond, wetlands or artificial body
of water.
      In the case of development on agricultural land, i.e. lands use for an
agricultural use or purpose as defined at N.J.A.C. 7:50-2.11, development
means: any activity that requires a State permit, any activity reviewed by the
County Agricultural Board (CAB) and the State Agricultural Development
Committee (SADC), and municipal review of any activity not exempted by the
Right to Farm Act, N.J.S.A. 4:1C-1 et seq.
   DISTURBANCE — The placement or reconstruction of impervious surface or motor
vehicle surface, or exposure and/or movement of soil or bedrock or clearing,
cutting, or removing of vegetation. Milling and repaving is not considered
disturbance for the purposes of this definition.
   DRAINAGE AREA — A geographic area within which stormwater runoff, sediments,
or dissolved materials drain to a particular receiving waterbody or to a
particular point along a receiving waterbody.
   ENVIRONMENTALLY CRITICAL AREA — An area or feature which is of significant
environmental value, including but not limited to: stream corridors, natural
heritage priority sites, habitats of endangered or threatened species, large
areas of contiguous open space or upland forest, steep slopes, and well head
protection and groundwater recharge areas. Habitats of endangered or threatened
species are identified using the NJDEP Landscape Project as approved by the
NJDEP Endangered and Nongame Species Program.
   EROSION — The detachment and movement of soil or rock fragments by water,
wind, ice, or gravity.
   GREEN INFRASTRUCTURE — A stormwater management measure that manages
stormwater close to its source by:
      (1)   Treating stormwater runoff through infiltration into subsoil;
      (2)   Treating stormwater runoff through filtration by vegetation or
soil; or
      (3)   Storing stormwater runoff for reuse.
   HIGH POLLUTANT LOADING AREAS — Areas in industrial and commercial
developments where solvents and/or petroleum products are loaded/unloaded,
stored, or applied, areas where pesticides are loaded/unloaded or stored; areas
where hazardous materials are expected to be present in greater than
"reportable quantities" as defined by the United States Environmental
Protection Agency (EPA) at 40 CFR 302.4; areas where recharge would be
inconsistent with NJDEP approved remedial action work plan or landfill closure
plan and areas with high risks for spills of toxic materials, such as gas
stations and vehicle maintenance facilities.
   HUC-11 or HYDROLOGIC UNIT CODE 11 — An area within which water drains to a
particular receiving surface water body, also known as a subwatershed, which is
identified by an 11-digit hydrologic unit boundary designation, delineated
within New Jersey by the United States Geological Survey.
   HUC 14 or HYDROLOGIC UNIT CODE 14 — An area within which water drains to a
particular receiving surface water body, also known as a subwatershed, which is
identified by a 14-digit hydrologic unit boundary designation, delineated
within New Jersey by the United States Geological Survey.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE — Any surface that has been compacted or covered with a
layer of material so that it prevents, impedes or slows infiltration or
absorption of fluid, including stormwater directly into the ground, and results
in either reduced groundwater recharge or increased stormwater runoff
sufficient to be classified as impervious in Urban Areas by the United States
Department of Agriculture, Natural Resources Conservation Service Title 210 -
Engineering, 210-3-1 - Small Watershed Hydrology (WINTR-55) Version 1.0,
incorporated herein by reference, as amended and supplemented, available with
user guide and tutorials at http://www.wsi.nrcs.usda.gov/products/W2Q/H&H/
Tools_Models/WinTr55.html or at Natural Resources Conservation Service, 220
Davidson Avenue, Somerset, NJ 08873. Such surfaces may have varying degrees of
permeability.
   INFILTRATION — The process by which water seeps into the soil from
precipitation.
   MAJOR DEVELOPMENT — Any division of land into five or more lots; any
construction or expansion of any housing development of five or more dwelling
units; any construction or expansion of any commercial or industrial use or
structure on a site of more than three acres; or any grading, clearing or
disturbance of an area in excess of 5,000 square feet.
   MINOR DEVELOPMENT — All development other than major development.
   MOTOR VEHICLE — Land vehicles propelled other than by muscular power, such
as automobiles, motorcycles, autocycles, and low speed vehicles. For the
purposes of this definition, motor vehicle does not include farm equipment,
snowmobiles, all-terrain vehicles, motorized wheelchairs, go-carts, gas
buggies, golf carts, ski-slope grooming machines, or vehicles that run only on
rails or tracks.
   MOTOR VEHICLE SURFACE — Any pervious or impervious surface that is intended
to be used by "motor vehicles" and/or aircraft, and is directly exposed to
precipitation including, but not limited to, driveways, parking areas, parking
garages, roads, racetracks, and runways.
   NEW JERSEY STORMWATER BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP) MANUAL or BMP MANUAL —
The manual maintained by the NJDEP providing, in part, design specifications,
removal rates, calculation methods, and soil testing procedures approved by the
NJDEP as being capable of contributing to the achievement of the stormwater
management standards specified in this article. The BMP Manual is periodically
amended by the NJDEP as necessary to provide design specifications on
additional best management practices and new information on already included
practices reflecting the best available current information regarding the
particular practice and the NJDEP's determination as to the ability of that
best management practice to contribute to compliance with the standards
contained in this article. Alternative stormwater management measures, removal
rates, or calculation methods may be utilized, subject to any limitations
specified in this article, provided the design engineer demonstrates to the
municipality, in accordance with § 175-172F. and N.J.A.C. 7:8-5.2(g), that the
proposed measure and its design will contribute to achievement of the design
and performance standards established by this article.
   NUTRIENT — A chemical element or compound, such as nitrogen or phosphorus,
which is essential to and promotes the development of organisms.
   PERMEABILITY — The rate at which water moves through a unit area of soil,
rock, or other material at hydraulic gradient of one.
   PERSON — An individual, corporation, public agency, business trust,
partnership, association, two or more persons having a joint or common
interest, or any other legal entity.
   POLLUTANT — Any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, filter
backwash, sewage, garbage, refuse, oil, grease, sewage sludge, munitions,
chemical wastes, biological materials, medical wastes, radioactive substance
(except those regulated under the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (42
U.S.C. §§ 2011 et seq.)), thermal waste, wrecked or discarded equipment, rock,
sand, cellar dirt, industrial, municipal, agricultural, and construction waste
or runoff, or other residue discharged directly or indirectly to the land,
ground waters or surface waters of the State, or to a domestic treatment works.
"Pollutant" includes both hazardous and nonhazardous pollutants.
   RECHARGE — The amount of water from precipitation that infiltrates into the
ground and is not evapotranspired.
   REGULATED MOTOR VEHICLE SURFACE — Any of the following, alone or in
combination:
      (1)   A net increase in motor vehicle surface; and/or
      (2)   The total area of motor vehicle surface that is currently receiving
water quality treatment either by vegetation or soil, by an existing stormwater
management measure, or by treatment at a wastewater treatment plant, where the
water quality treatment will be modified or removed.
   SEASONAL HIGH WATER TABLE — The level below the natural surface of the
ground to which water seasonally rises in the soil in most years.
   SEDIMENT — Solid material, mineral or organic, that is in suspension, is
being transported, or has been moved from its site of origin by air, water or
gravity as a product of erosion.
   SITE — The lot or lots upon which development is to occur or has occurred.
   SOIL — All unconsolidated mineral and organic material of any origin.
   SOURCE MATERIAL — Any material(s) or machinery, located at an industrial
facility, that is directly or indirectly related to process, manufacturing or
other industrial activities, which could be a source of pollutants in any
industrial stormwater discharge to groundwater. Source materials include, but
are not limited to, raw materials; intermediate products; final products; waste
materials; by-products; industrial machinery and fuels, and lubricants,
solvents, and detergents that are related to process, manufacturing, or other
industrial activities that are exposed to stormwater.
   STORMWATER — Water resulting from precipitation (including rain and snow)
that runs off the land's surface, is transmitted to the subsurface, or is
captured by separate storm sewers or other sewage or drainage facilities, or
conveyed by snow removal equipment.
   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT BMP — An excavation or embankment and related areas
designed to retain stormwater runoff. A stormwater management BMP may either be
normally dry (that is, a detention basin or infiltration system), retain water
in a permanent pool (a retention basin), or be planted mainly with wetland
vegetation (most constructed stormwater wetlands).
   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT MEASURE — Any practice, technology, process, program,
or other method intended to control or reduce stormwater runoff and associated
pollutants, or to induce or control the infiltration or groundwater recharge of
stormwater or to eliminate illicit or illegal non-stormwater discharges into
stormwater conveyances.
   STORMWATER RUNOFF — Water flow on the surface of the ground or in storm
sewers, resulting from precipitation.
   WATERS OF THE STATE — The ocean and its estuaries, all springs, streams,
wetlands, and bodies of surface or groundwater, whether natural or artificial,
within the boundaries of the State of New Jersey or subject to its
jurisdiction.
   WETLANDS or WETLAND — Lands which are inundated or saturated by water at a
magnitude, duration and frequency sufficient to support the growth of
hydrophytes. Wetlands include lands with poorly drained or very poorly drained
soils as designated by the National Cooperative Soils Survey of the Soil
Conservation Service of the United States Department of Agriculture. Wetlands
include coastal wetlands and inland wetlands, including submerged lands. The
"New Jersey Pinelands Commission Manual for Identifying and Delineating
Pinelands Area Wetlands--a Pinelands Supplement to the Federal Manual for
Identifying and Delineating Jurisdictional Wetlands," dated January, 1991, as
amended, may be utilized in delineating the extent of wetlands based on the
definitions of wetlands and wetlands soils contained in N.J.A.C. 7:50-2.11,
6.3, 6.4 and 6.5.
   WETLAND TRANSITION AREA — An area within 300 feet of any wetland.
§ 175-172. Stormwater management requirements.
A.   Stormwater management measures for development regulated under this
article shall be designed to provide erosion control, groundwater recharge,
stormwater runoff quantity control and stormwater runoff quality treatment in
accordance with this article.
   (1)   Major development shall meet the minimum design and performance
standards for erosion control established under the Soil Erosion and Sediment
Control Act, N.J.S.A. 4:24-39 et seq., and implementing rules at N.J.A.C. 2:90
and 16:25A.
   (2)   All development regulated under this article shall meet the minimum
design and performance standards for groundwater recharge, stormwater runoff
quality, and stormwater runoff quantity at § 175-172O., P., and Q. by
incorporating green infrastructure as provided at § 175-172N.
B.   All development regulated under this article shall incorporate a
maintenance plan for the stormwater management measures in accordance with §
175-178.
C.   Stormwater management measures shall avoid adverse impacts of concentrated
flow on habitat for threatened and endangered species in accordance with
N.J.A.C. 7:8-5.2(c) and N.J.A.C. 7:50-6.27 and 6.33.
D.   Tables 1, 2, and 3 below summarize the ability of stormwater best
management practices identified and described in the New Jersey Stormwater BMP
Manual to satisfy the green infrastructure, groundwater recharge, stormwater
runoff quality and stormwater runoff quantity standards specified in § 175-
172N., O., P., and Q. When designed in accordance with the most current version
of the New Jersey Stormwater BMP Manual and this article, the stormwater
management measures found in Tables 1, 2, and 3 are presumed to be capable of
providing stormwater controls for the design and performance standards as
outlined in the tables below. Upon amendments of the New Jersey Stormwater BMP
Manual to reflect additions or deletions of BMPs meeting these standards, or
changes in the presumed performance of BMPs designed in accordance with the New
Jersey Stormwater BMP Manual, the NJDEP shall publish in the New Jersey
Registers a notice of administrative change revising the applicable table. The
most current version of the BMP Manual can be found on the NJDEP website at:
https://njstormwater.org/bmp_manual2.htm.
E.   Where the BMP tables at N.J.A.C. 7:8-5.2(f) differ with Tables 1, 2 and 3
below due to amendment, the BMP Tables at N.J.A.C. 7:8-5.2(f) shall take
precedence, except that in all cases the lowest point of infiltration must
maintain a minimum separation of two (2) feet to seasonal high water table as
required by § 175-172H.(2) unless otherwise noted.
 
 
   175:360   2024 S-13
§ 175-172   LAND DEVELOPMENT   § 175-172
   Table 1: Green Infrastructure BMPs for Groundwater Recharge, Stormwater
Runoff
   Quality, and/or Stormwater Runoff Quantity
                 Stormwater                                     Minimum
Best Management  Runoff Quality   Stormwater Runoff Groundwater Separation from
Practice         TSS Removal Rate Quantity          Recharge    Seasonal High
                 (percent)                                      Water Table
                                                                (Feet)
Cistern          0                Yes               No          --
Dry Well(a)      0                No                Yes         2
Grass Swale      50 or less       No                No          2(e)
                                                                1(f)
Green Roof       0                Yes               No          --
Manufactured                                                    Dependent upon
Treatment Device 50 or 80         No                No          the device
(a), (g)
Pervious Paving  80               Yes               Yes(b)      2(b)
System(a)                                           No(c)       2(c)
Small-Scale                                         Yes(b)      2(b)
Bioretention     80 or 90         Yes               No(c)       1(c)
Basin(a)
Small-Scale
Infiltration     80               Yes               Yes         2
Basin(a)
Small Scale Sand 80               Yes               Yes         2
Filter(a)
Vegetative       60-80            No                No          --
Filter Strip
 
 
 
   175:361   2024 S-13
§ 175-172   HAMMONTON CODE   § 175-172
   Table 2: Green Infrastructure BMPs for Stormwater Runoff Quantity
   (or for Groundwater Recharge and/or Stormwater Runoff Quality with a
   Variance from N.J.A.C. 7:8-5.3)
 
                Stormwater Runoff                               Minimum
Best Management Quality TSS       Stormwater Runoff Groundwater Separation from
Practice        Removal Rate      Quantity          Recharge    Seasonal High
                (percent)                                       Water Table
                                                                (Feet)
Bioretention    80 or 90          Yes               Yes(b)      2(b)
System                                              No(c)       1(c)
Infiltration    80                Yes               Yes         2
Basin
Sand Filter(b)  80                Yes               Yes         2
Standard
Constructed     90                Yes               No          2(i)
Wetland
Wet Pond(d)     50-90             Yes               No          2(i)
 
   Table 3: BMPs for Groundwater Recharge, Stormwater Runoff Quality, and/or
   Stormwater Runoff Quantity only with a Variance from N.J.A.C. 7:8-5.3
 
                 Stormwater                                     Minimum
Best Management  Runoff Quality   Stormwater Runoff Groundwater Separation from
Practice         TSS Removal Rate Quantity          Recharge    Seasonal High
                 (percent)                                      Water Table
                                                                (Feet)
Blue Roof        0                Yes               No          N/A
Extended         40-60            Yes               No          2
Detention Basin
Manufactured                                                    Dependent upon
Treatment Device 50 or 80         No                No          the device
(h)
Sand Filter(c)   80               Yes               No          2
Subsurface       90               No                No          2
Gravel Wetland
 
   175:362   2024 S-13
§ 175-172   LAND DEVELOPMENT   § 175-172
 
                Stormwater Runoff                               Minimum
Best Management Quality TSS       Stormwater Runoff Groundwater Separation from
Practice        Removal Rate      Quantity          Recharge    Seasonal High
                (percent)                                       Water Table
                                                                (Feet)
Wet Pond        50-90             Yes               No          2(i)
 
 
Footnotes to Tables 1, 2, and 3:
(a)   Subject to the applicable contributory drainage area limitation specified at
§ 175-172N.(2).
(b)   Designed to infiltrate into the subsoil.
(c)   Designed with underdrains, where stormwater percolates into the underdrain
through the soils and is not directed to the underdrain by an outlet control
structure.
(d)   Designed to maintain at least a ten-foot wide area of native vegetation
along at least 50 percent of the shoreline and to include a stormwater runoff
retention component designed to capture stormwater runoff for beneficial reuse,
such as irrigation.
(e)   Designed with a slope of less than two percent.
(f)   Designed with a slope of equal to or greater than two percent.
(g)   Manufactured treatment devices that meet the definition of green
infrastructure at § 175-171.
(h)   Manufactured treatment devices that do not meet the definition of green
infrastructure at § 175-171.
(i)   The top elevation of the impermeable layer or liner must maintain this two-
foot minimum separation to the seasonal high water table.
 
F.   An alternative stormwater management measure, alternative removal rate,
and/or alternative method to calculate the removal rate may be used if the
design engineer demonstrates the capability of the proposed alternative
stormwater management measure and/or the validity of the alternative rate or
method to the municipality. A copy of any approved alternative stormwater
management measure, alternative removal rate, and/or alternative method to
calculate the removal rate shall be provided to the NJDEP and the Pinelands
Commission in accordance with § 175-174B. Alternative stormwater management
measures may be used to satisfy the requirements at § 175-172N. only if the
measures meet the definition of green infrastructure at § 175-171. Alternative
stormwater management measures that function in a similar manner to a BMP
listed at § 175-172N.(2) are subject to the contributory drainage area
limitation specified at § 175-172N.(2) for that similarly functioning BMP.
Alternative stormwater management measures approved in accordance with this
subsection that do not function in a similar manner to any BMP listed at § 175-
172N.(2) shall have a contributory drainage area less than or equal to two and
one-half acres, except for alternative stormwater management measures that
function similarly to cisterns, grass swales, green roofs, standard constructed
wetlands, vegetative filter strips, and wet ponds, which are not subject to a
contributory drainage area limitation. Alternative measures that function
similarly to standard constructed wetlands or wet ponds shall not be used for
compliance with the stormwater runoff quality standard unless a variance in
accordance with § 175-179 is granted from § 175-172N.
   175:363   2024 S-13
§ 175-172   HAMMONTON CODE   § 175-172
G.   Hydraulic impacts.
   (1)   For all major development, groundwater mounding analysis shall be
required for purposes of assessing the hydraulic impacts of mounding of the
water table resulting from infiltration of stormwater runoff from the maximum
storm designed for infiltration. The mounding analysis shall provide details
and supporting documentation on the methodology used. Groundwater mounds shall
not cause stormwater or groundwater to breakout to the land surface or cause
adverse impacts to adjacent water bodies, wetlands, or subsurface structures,
including, but not limited to, basements and septic systems. Where the mounding
analysis identifies adverse impacts, the stormwater management measure shall be
redesigned or relocated, as appropriate.
   (2)   For all applicable minor development, a design engineer's
certification that each green infrastructure stormwater management measure will
not adversely impact basements or septic systems of the proposed development
shall be required.
H.   Design standards for stormwater management measures are as follows:
   (1)   Stormwater management measures shall be designed to take into account
the existing site conditions, including, but not limited to, environmentally
critical areas; wetlands; wetland transition areas; flood-prone areas; slopes;
depth to seasonal high water table; soil type, permeability, and texture;
drainage area and drainage patterns; and the presence of solution-prone
carbonate rocks (limestone);
   (2)   Stormwater management measures designed to infiltrate stormwater shall
be designed, constructed, and maintained to provide a minimum separation of at
least two feet between the elevation of the lowest point of infiltration and
the seasonal high water table;
   (3)   Stormwater management measures designed to infiltrate stormwater shall
be sited in suitable soils verified by testing to have permeability rates
between one and 20 inches per hour. A factor of safety of two shall be applied
to the soil's permeability rate in determining the infiltration measure's
design permeability rate. If such soils do not exist on the parcel proposed for
development or if it is demonstrated that it is not practical for engineering,
environmental, or safety reasons to site the stormwater infiltration measure(s)
in such soils, the stormwater infiltration measure(s) may be sited in soils
verified by testing to have permeability rates in excess of 20 inches per hour,
provided that stormwater is routed through a bioretention system prior to
infiltration. Said bioretention system shall be designed, installed, and
maintained in accordance with the New Jersey Stormwater BMP Manual;
   (4)   The use of stormwater management measures that are smaller in size and
distributed spatially throughout a parcel, rather than the use of a single,
larger stormwater management measure shall be required;
   (5)   Methods of treating stormwater prior to entering any stormwater
management measure shall be incorporated into the design of the stormwater
management measure to the maximum extent practical;
   175:364   2024 S-13
§ 175-172   LAND DEVELOPMENT   § 175-172
   (6)   To avoid sedimentation that may result in clogging and reduction of
infiltration capability and to maintain maximum soil infiltration capacity, the
construction of stormwater management measures that rely upon infiltration
shall be managed in accordance with the following standards:
      (a)   No stormwater management measure shall be placed into operation
until its drainage area has been completely stabilized. Instead, upstream
runoff shall be diverted around the measure and into separate, temporary
stormwater management facilities and sediment basins. Such temporary facilities
and basins shall be installed and utilized for stormwater management and
sediment control until stabilization is achieved in accordance with N.J.A.C. 2:
90;
      (b)   If, for engineering, environmental, or safety reasons, temporary
stormwater management facilities and sediment basins cannot be constructed on
the parcel in accordance with (a) above, the stormwater management measure may
be placed into operation prior to the complete stabilization of its drainage
area provided that the measure's bottom during this period is constructed at a
depth at least two feet higher than its final design elevation. When the
drainage area has been completely stabilized, all accumulated sediment shall be
removed from the stormwater management measure, which shall then be excavated
to its final design elevation; and
      (c)   To avoid compacting the soils below a stormwater management measure
designed to infiltrate stormwater, no heavy equipment, such as backhoes, dump
trucks, or bulldozers shall be permitted to operate within the footprint of the
stormwater management measure. All excavation required to construct a
stormwater management measure that relies on infiltration shall be performed by
equipment placed outside the footprint of the stormwater management measure. If
this is not possible, the soils within the excavated area shall be renovated
and tilled after construction is completed. Earthwork associated with
stormwater management measure construction, including excavation, grading,
cutting, or filling, shall not be performed when soil moisture content is above
the lower plastic limit;
   (7)   Dry wells shall be designed to prevent access by amphibian and
reptiles;
   (8)   Stormwater management measures shall be designed to minimize
maintenance, facilitate maintenance and repairs, and ensure proper functioning.
Trash racks shall be installed at the intake to the outlet structure, as
appropriate, and shall have parallel bars with one-inch spacing between the
bars to the elevation of the water quality design storm established at § 175-
172P.(4). For elevations higher than the water quality design storm, the
parallel bars at the outlet structure shall be spaced no greater than one-third
the width of the diameter of the orifice or one-third the width of the weir,
with a minimum spacing between bars of one inch and a maximum spacing between
bars of six inches. In addition, the design of trash racks must comply with the
requirements of § 175-176C.(1);
   (9)   Stormwater management measures shall be designed, constructed, and
installed to be strong, durable, and corrosion resistant. Measures that are
consistent with the relevant portions of the residential site improvement
standards at N.J.A.C. 5:21-7.3, 7.4, and 7.5 shall be deemed to meet this
requirement;
   175:365   2024 S-13
§ 175-172   HAMMONTON CODE   § 175-172
   (10)   Stormwater management BMPs shall be designed to meet the minimum
safety standards for stormwater management BMPs at § 175-176; and
   (11)   The size of the orifice at the intake to the outlet from the
stormwater management BMP shall be a minimum of two and one-half inches in
diameter.
I.   Manufactured treatment devices may be used to meet the requirements of
this article, provided the pollutant removal rates are verified by the New
Jersey Corporation for Advanced Technology and certified by the NJDEP.
Manufactured treatment devices that do not meet the definition of green
infrastructure at § 175-171 may be used only under the circumstances described
at § 175-172N.(4).
J.   Any application for a new agricultural development that meets the
definition of major development at N.J.A.C. 7:8-1.2 shall be submitted to the
Soil Conservation District for review and approval in accordance with the
requirements at § 175-172N., O., P., and Q. and any applicable Soil
Conservation District guidelines for stormwater runoff quantity and erosion
control. For purposes of this subsection, "agricultural development" means land
uses normally associated with the production of food, fiber, and livestock for
sale. Such uses do not include the development of land for the processing or
sale of food and the manufacture of agriculturally related products.
K.   If there is more than one drainage area, the groundwater recharge,
stormwater runoff quality, and stormwater runoff quantity standards at § 175-
172O., P., and Q. shall be met in each drainage area, unless the runoff from
the drainage areas converge onsite and no adverse environmental impact would
occur as a result of compliance with any one or more of the individual
standards being determined utilizing a weighted average of the results achieved
for that individual standard across the affected drainage areas.
L.   Any stormwater management measure authorized under the municipal
stormwater management plan or this article shall be reflected in a deed notice
recorded in the Atlantic County Clerk's Office. A form of deed notice shall be
submitted to the municipality for approval prior to filing. The deed notice
shall contain a description of the stormwater management measure(s) used to
meet the green infrastructure, groundwater recharge, stormwater runoff quality,
and stormwater runoff quantity standards at § 175-172N., O., P., and Q. and
shall identify the location of the stormwater management measure(s) in NAD 1983
State Plane New Jersey FIPS 2900 US Feet or Latitude and Longitude in decimal
degrees. The deed notice shall also reference the maintenance plan required to
be recorded upon the deed pursuant to § 175-178B.(5). Prior to the commencement
of construction, proof that the above required deed notice has been filed shall
be submitted to the municipality. Proof that the required information has been
recorded on the deed shall be in the form of either a copy of the complete
recorded document or a receipt from the clerk or other proof of recordation
provided by the recording office. However, if the initial proof provided to the
municipality is not a copy of the complete recorded document, a copy of the
complete recorded document shall be provided to the municipality within 180
calendar days of the authorization granted by the municipality.
M.   A stormwater management measure approved under the municipal stormwater
management plan or this article may be altered or replaced with the approval of
the municipality, if the municipality determines that the proposed alteration
or replacement meets the design and
   175:366   2024 S-13
§ 175-172   LAND DEVELOPMENT   § 175-172
   performance standards contained in § 175-172N., O., P., and Q. and provides
the same level of stormwater management as the previously approved stormwater
management measure that is being altered or replaced. If an alteration or
replacement is approved, a revised deed notice shall be submitted to the
municipality for approval and subsequently recorded with the Atlantic County
Clerk's Office and shall contain a description and location of the stormwater
management measure, as well as reference to the maintenance plan, in accordance
with L above. Prior to the commencement of construction, proof that the above
required deed notice has been filed shall be submitted to the municipality in
accordance with L. above.
N.   Green infrastructure standards.
   (1)   This subsection specifies the types of green infrastructure BMPs that
may be used to satisfy the groundwater recharge, stormwater runoff quality, and
stormwater runoff quantity standards of this article.
   (2)   To satisfy the groundwater recharge and stormwater runoff quality
standards at § 175-172O. and P., the design engineer shall utilize BMPs
identified in Table 1 at § 175-172E. and/or an alternative stormwater
management measure approved in accordance with § 175-172F. The following green
infrastructure BMPs are subject to the following maximum contributory drainage
area limitations:
 
Best Management Practice         Maximum Contributory Drainage Area
Dry well                         1 acre
Manufactured treatment device    2.5 acres
Pervious pavement system         Area of additional inflow cannot exceed three
                                 times the area occupied by the BMP
Small-scale bioretention systems 2.5 acres
Small-scale infiltration basin   2.5 acres
Small-scale sand filter          2.5 acres
 
   (3)   To satisfy the stormwater runoff quantity standards at § 175-172Q.,
the design engineer shall utilize BMPs identified in Table 1 or 2 at § 175-
172E. and/or an alternative stormwater management measure approved in
accordance with § 175-172F.
   (4)   If a variance in accordance with § 175-179. is granted from the
requirements of this subsection, then BMPs from Table 1, 2, or 3 at § 175-172E.
and/or an alternative stormwater management measure approved in accordance with
§ 175-172F. may be used to meet the groundwater recharge, stormwater runoff
quality, and stormwater runoff quantity standards at § 175-172O., P., and Q.
   (5)   For separate or combined storm sewer improvement projects, such as
sewer separation, undertaken by a government agency or public utility (for
example, a sewerage company), the requirements of this subsection shall only
apply to areas owned in fee
   175:367   2024 S-13
§ 175-172   HAMMONTON CODE   § 175-172
      simple by the government agency or utility, and areas within a right-of-
way or easement held or controlled by the government agency or utility; the
entity shall not be required to obtain additional property or property rights
to fully satisfy the requirements of this subsection. Regardless of the amount
of area of a separate or combined storm sewer improvement project subject to
the green infrastructure requirements of this subsection, each project shall
fully comply with the applicable groundwater recharge, stormwater runoff
quality control, and stormwater runoff quantity standards at § 175-172O., P.,
and Q.
O.   Groundwater recharge standards.
   (1)   This subsection contains the minimum design and performance standards
for groundwater recharge as follows:
   (2)   For all major development, the total runoff volume generated from the
net increase in impervious surfaces by a ten-year, 24-hour storm shall be
retained and infiltrated onsite.
   (3)   For minor development that involves the construction of four or fewer
dwelling units, the runoff generated from the total roof area of the dwelling
(s) by a ten-year, 24-hour storm shall be retained and infiltrated through
installation of one or more green infrastructure stormwater management measures
designed in accordance with the New Jersey Stormwater BMP Manual. Appropriate
green infrastructure stormwater management measures include, but are not
limited to dry wells, pervious pavement systems, and small scale bioretention
systems, including rain gardens.
   (4)   For minor development that involves any nonresidential use and will
result in an increase of greater than 1,000 square feet of regulated motor
vehicle surfaces, the water quality design storm volume generated from these
surfaces shall be recharged onsite.
   (5)   Stormwater from areas of high pollutant loading and/or industrial
stormwater exposed to source material shall only be recharged in accordance
with § 175-172P.(8).
P.   Stormwater runoff quality standards.
   (1)   This subsection contains the minimum design and performance standards
to control stormwater runoff quality impacts of:
      (a)   Major development;
      (b)   Minor development that involves any nonresidential use and will
result in an increase of greater than 1,000 square feet of regulated motor
vehicle surfaces; and
      (c)   Any development involving the grading, clearing, or disturbance of
an area in excess of 5,000 square feet within any five-year period.
   (2)   Stormwater management measures shall be designed to reduce the post-
construction load of total suspended solids (TSS) in stormwater runoff
generated from the water quality design storm established at § 175-172P.(4) as
follows:
   175:368   2024 S-13
§ 175-172   LAND DEVELOPMENT   § 175-172
      (a)   Eighty percent TSS removal of the anticipated load, expressed as an
annual average shall be achieved for the stormwater runoff from the net
increase of motor vehicle surface.
      (b)   If the surface is considered regulated motor vehicle surface
because the water quality treatment for an area of motor vehicle surface that
is currently receiving water quality treatment either by vegetation or soil, by
an existing stormwater management measure, or by treatment at a wastewater
treatment plant is to be modified or removed, the project shall maintain or
increase the existing TSS removal of the anticipated load expressed as an
annual average.
   (3)   The requirement to reduce TSS does not apply to any stormwater runoff
in a discharge regulated under a numeric effluent limitation for TSS imposed
under the New Jersey Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NJPDES) rules,
N.J.A.C. 7:14A, or in a discharge specifically exempt under a NJPDES permit
from this requirement. Every major development, including any that discharge
into a combined sewer system, shall comply with (2) above, unless the major
development is itself subject to a NJPDES permit with a numeric effluent
limitation for TSS or the NJPDES permit to which the major development is
subject exempts the development from a numeric effluent limitation for TSS.
   (4)   The water quality design storm is 1.25 inches of rainfall in two
hours. Water quality calculations shall take into account the distribution of
rain from the water quality design storm, as reflected in Table 4, below. The
calculation of the volume of runoff may take into account the implementation of
stormwater management measures.
   Table 4: Water Quality Design Storm Distribution
               Cumulative                Cumulative                Cumulative
Time (Minutes) Rainfall   Time (Minutes) Rainfall   Time (Minutes) Rainfall
               (Inches)                  (Inches)                  (Inches)
1              0.00166    41             0.1728     81             1.0906
2              0.00332    42             0.1796     82             1.0972
3              0.00498    43             0.1864     83             1.1038
4              0.00664    44             0.1932     84             1.1104
5              0.0083     45             0.2        85             1.117
6              0.00996    46             0.2117     86             1.1236
7              0.01162    47             0.2233     87             1.1302
8              0.01328    48             0.235      88             1.1368
9              0.01494    49             0.2466     89             1.1434
10             0.0166     50             0.2583     90             1.15
 
   175:369   2024 S-13
§ 175-172   HAMMONTON CODE   § 175-172
               Cumulative                Cumulative                Cumulative
Time (Minutes) Rainfall   Time (Minutes) Rainfall   Time (Minutes) Rainfall
               (Inches)                  (Inches)                  (Inches)
11             0.01828    51             0.2783     91             1.155
12             0.01996    52             0.2983     92             1.16
13             0.02164    53             0.3183     93             1.165
14             0.02332    54             0.3383     94             1.17
15             0.025      55             0.3583     95             1.175
16             0.03       56             0.4116     96             1.18
17             0.035      57             0.465      97             1.185
18             0.04       58             0.5183     98             1.19
19             0.045      59             0.5717     99             1.195
20             0.05       60             0.625      100            1.2
21             0.055      61             0.6783     101            1.205
22             0.06       62             0.7317     102            1.21
23             0.065      63             0.785      103            1.215
24             0.07       64             0.8384     104            1.22
25             0.075      65             0.8917     105            1.225
26             0.08       66             0.9117     106            1.2267
27             0.085      67             0.9317     107            1.2284
28             0.09       68             0.9517     108            1.23
29             0.095      69             0.9717     109            1.2317
30             0.1        70             0.9917     110            1.2334
31             0.1066     71             1.0034     111            1.2351
32             0.1132     72             1.015      112            1.2367
33             0.1198     73             1.0267     113            1.2384
34             0.1264     74             1.0383     114            1.24
35             0.133      75             1.05       115            1.2417
36             0.1396     76             1.0568     116            1.2434
 
   175:370   2024 S-13
§ 175-172   LAND DEVELOPMENT   § 175-172
 
               Cumulative                Cumulative                Cumulative
Time (Minutes) Rainfall   Time (Minutes) Rainfall   Time (Minutes) Rainfall
               (Inches)                  (Inches)                  (Inches)
37             0.1462     77             1.0636     117            1.245
38             0.1528     78             1.0704     118            1.2467
39             0.1594     79             1.0772     119            1.2483
40             0.166      80             1.084      120            1.25
 
   (5)   If more than one BMP in series is necessary to achieve the required 80
percent TSS reduction for a site, the applicant shall utilize the following
formula to calculate TSS reduction:
      R = A + B - (A x B) / 100
      Where,
         R = total TSS Percent Load Removal from application of both BMPs
         A = the TSS Percent Removal Rate applicable to the first BMP
         B = the TSS Percent Removal Rate applicable to the second BMP
   (6)   Stormwater management measures shall also be designed to reduce, to
the maximum extent feasible, the post-construction nutrient load of the
anticipated load from the developed site in stormwater runoff generated from
the water quality design storm established at § 175-172P.(4). In achieving
reduction of nutrients to the maximum extent feasible, the design of the site
shall include green infrastructure BMPs that optimize nutrient removal while
still achieving the performance standards in § 175-172O., P., and Q.
   (7)   For all major development, stormwater management measures shall be
designed to achieve a minimum of 65 percent reduction of the post-construction
total nitrogen load from the developed site, including those permanent lawn or
turf areas that are specifically intended for active human use as described at
N.J.A.C. 7:50-6.24(c)3, in stormwater runoff generated from the water quality
design storm established at § 175-172P.(4). In achieving a minimum 65 percent
reduction of total nitrogen, the design of the site shall include green
infrastructure in accordance with the New Jersey Stormwater BMP Manual and
shall optimize nutrient removal. The minimum 65 percent total nitrogen
reduction may be achieved by using a singular stormwater management measure or
multiple stormwater management measures in series.
   (8)   In high pollutant loading areas (HPLAs) and/or areas where stormwater
runoff is exposed to source material, as defined in § 175-171, the following
additional water quality standards shall apply:
 
   175:371   2024 S-13
§ 175-172   HAMMONTON CODE   § 175-172
      (a)   The areal extent and amount of precipitation falling directly on or
flowing over HPLAs and/or areas where stormwater is exposed to source material
shall be minimized through the use of roof covers, canopies, curbing or other
physical means to the maximum extent practical in order to minimize the
quantity of stormwater generated from HPLA areas and areas where stormwater
runoff is exposed to source material;
      (b)   The stormwater runoff originating from HPLAs and/or areas where
stormwater runoff is exposed to source material shall be segregated and
prohibited from co-mingling with stormwater runoff originating from the
remainder of the parcel unless it is first routed through one or more
stormwater management measures required at (c) below;
      (c)   The stormwater runoff from HPLAs and/or areas where stormwater
runoff is exposed to source material shall incorporate stormwater management
measures designed to reduce the post-construction load of TSS by at least 90
percent in stormwater runoff generated from the water quality design storm
established at § 175-172P.(4) using one or more of the measures identified at
[1] or [2] below. In meeting this requirement, the minimum 90 percent removal
of total suspended solids may be achieved by utilizing multiple stormwater
management measures in series:
         [1]   Any measure designed in accordance with the New Jersey
Stormwater BMP Manual to remove total suspended solids. Any such measure must
be constructed to ensure that the lowest point of infiltration within the
measure maintains a minimum of two feet of vertical separation from the
seasonal high-water table; and
         [2]   Other measures certified by the NJDEP, including a media
filtration system manufactured treatment device with a minimum 80 percent
removal of total suspended solids as verified by the New Jersey Corporation for
Advanced Technology; and
      (d)   If the potential for contamination of stormwater runoff by
petroleum products exists onsite, prior to being conveyed to the stormwater
management measure required at (c) above, the stormwater runoff from the HPLAs
and areas where stormwater runoff is exposed to source material shall be
conveyed through an oil/grease separator or other equivalent manufactured
filtering device providing for the removal of petroleum hydrocarbons. The
applicant shall provide the review agency with sufficient data to demonstrate
acceptable performance of the device.
   (9)   The Flood Hazard Area Control Act Rules at N.J.A.C. 7:13-4.1(c)1
establish 300-foot riparian zones along Category One waters, as designated in
the Surface Water Quality Standards at N.J.A.C. 7:9B, and certain upstream
tributaries to Category One waters. A person shall not undertake a major
development that is located within or discharges into a 300-foot riparian zone
without prior authorization from the Department under N.J.A.C. 7:13.
   175:372   2024 S-13
§ 175-172   LAND DEVELOPMENT   § 175-172
   (10)   Pursuant to the Flood Hazard Area Control Act Rules at N.J.A.C. 7:13-
11.2(j)3.i, runoff from the water quality design storm that is discharged
within a 300-foot riparian zone shall be treated in accordance with this
subsection to reduce the post-construction load of total suspended solids by 95
percent of the anticipated load from the developed site, expressed as an annual
average.
Q.   Stormwater runoff quantity standards.
   (1)   This subsection contains the minimum design and performance standards
to control stormwater runoff quantity impacts related to applicable major and
minor development.
   (2)   In order to control stormwater runoff quantity impacts, the design
engineer shall, using the assumptions and factors for stormwater runoff
calculations at § 175-173, complete one of the following:
      (a)   Demonstrate through hydrologic and hydraulic analysis that for
stormwater leaving the site, post-construction runoff hydrographs for the two-,
ten-, and 100-year storm events do not exceed, at any point in time, the pre-
construction runoff hydrographs for the same storm events;
      (b)   Demonstrate through hydrologic and hydraulic analysis that there is
no increase, as compared to the pre-construction condition, in the peak runoff
rates of stormwater leaving the site for the two-, ten- and 100-year storm
events and that the increased volume or change in timing of stormwater runoff
will not increase flood damage at or downstream of the site. This analysis
shall include the analysis of impacts of existing land uses and projected land
uses assuming full development under existing zoning and land use ordinances in
the drainage area;
      (c)   Design stormwater management measures so that the post-construction
peak runoff rates for the two-, ten- and 100-year storm events are 50, 75 and
80 percent, respectively, of the pre-construction peak runoff rates. The
percentages apply only to the post-construction stormwater runoff that is
attributable to the portion of the site on which the proposed development or
project is to be constructed; or
      (d)   In tidal flood hazard areas, stormwater runoff quantity analysis in
accordance with (a), (b), and (c) above is required unless the design engineer
demonstrates through hydrologic and hydraulic analysis that the increased
volume, change in timing, or increased rate of the stormwater runoff, or any
combination of the three will not result in additional flood damage below the
point of discharge of the major development. No analysis is required if the
stormwater is discharged directly into any ocean, bay, inlet, or the reach of
any watercourse between its confluence with an ocean, bay, or inlet and
downstream of the first water control structure.
   (3)   The stormwater runoff quantity standards shall be applied at the
site's boundary to each abutting lot, roadway, watercourse, or receiving storm
sewer system.
 
   175:373   2024 S-13
§ 175-172   HAMMONTON CODE   § 175-173
   (4)   There shall be no direct discharge of stormwater runoff from any point
or nonpoint source to any wetland, wetlands transition area, or surface
waterbody. In addition, stormwater runoff shall not be directed in such a way
as to increase the volume and rate of discharge into any wetlands, wetlands
transition area, or surface water body from that which existed prior to
development of the parcel.
   (5)   To the maximum extent practical, there shall be no direct discharge of
stormwater runoff onto farm fields to protect farm crops from damage due to
flooding, erosion, and long-term saturation of cultivated crops and cropland.
R.   As-built requirements for major development are as follows:
   (1)   After all construction activities have been completed on the parcel
and finished grade has been established in each stormwater management measure
designed to infiltrate stormwater, replicate post-development permeability
tests shall be conducted to determine if as-built soil permeability rates are
consistent with design permeability rates. The results of such tests shall be
submitted to the municipal engineer or other appropriate reviewing engineer. If
the results of the post-development permeability tests fail to achieve the
minimum required design permeability rate, utilizing a factor of safety of two,
the stormwater management measure shall be renovated and re-tested until the
required permeability rates are achieved; and
   (2)   After all construction activities and required testing have been
completed on the parcel, as-built plans, including as-built elevations of all
stormwater management measures shall be submitted to the municipal engineer or
other appropriate reviewing engineer to serve as a document of record. Based
upon that engineer's review of the as-built plans, all corrections or remedial
actions deemed necessary due to the failure to comply with design standards
and/or for any reason concerning public health or safety, shall be completed by
the applicant. In lieu of review by the municipal engineer, the municipality
may engage a licensed professional engineer to review the as-built plans and
charge the applicant for all costs associated with such review.
§ 175-173. Calculation of stormwater runoff and groundwater recharge.
   A.   Stormwater runoff shall be calculated by the design engineer using the
USDA Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS) methodology, including the
NRCS Runoff Equation and Dimensionless Unit Hydrograph, as described in
Chapters 7, 9, 10, 15 and 16 Part 630, Hydrology National Engineering Handbook,
incorporated herein by reference as amended and supplemented, except that the
Rational Method for peak flow and the Modified Rational Method for hydrograph
computations shall not be used. This methodology is additionally described in
Technical Release 55 - Urban Hydrology for Small Watersheds (TR-55), dated June
1986, incorporated herein by reference as amended and supplemented. Information
regarding the methodology is available from the Natural Resources Conservation
Service website at: https://www.nrcs.usda.gov/Internet/FSE_DOCUMENTS/
stelprdb1044171.pdf or at United States Department of Agriculture Natural
Resources Conservation Service, 220 Davison Avenue, Somerset, New Jersey 08873.
   B.   In calculating stormwater runoff using the NRCS methodology, the
appropriate 24-hour rainfall depths as developed for the parcel by the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, https://hdsc.nws.noaa.gov/hdsc/pfds/
pfds_map_cont.html?bkmrk=nj, shall be utilized.
   C.   For the purpose of calculating runoff coefficients and groundwater
recharge, there is a presumption that the pre-construction condition of a site
or portion thereof is a wooded land use with good hydrologic condition. A
runoff coefficient or a groundwater recharge land cover for an existing
condition may be used on all or a portion of the site if the design engineer
verifies that the hydrologic condition has existed on the site or portion of
the site for at least five years without interruption prior to the time of
application. If more than one land cover has existed on the site during the
five years immediately prior to the time of application, the land cover with
the lowest runoff potential shall be used for the computations. In addition,
there is the presumption that the site is in good hydrologic condition (if the
land use type is pasture, lawn, or park), with good cover (if the land use type
is woods), or with good hydrologic condition and conservation treatment (if the
land use type is cultivation).
   D.   In computing pre-construction stormwater runoff, the design engineer
shall account for all significant land features and structures, such as ponds,
wetlands, depressions, hedgerows, or culverts, that may reduce pre-construction
stormwater runoff rates and volumes.
   E.   In computing stormwater runoff from all design storms, the design
engineer shall consider the relative stormwater runoff rates and/or volumes of
pervious and impervious surfaces separately to accurately compute the rates and
volume of stormwater runoff from the site. To calculate runoff from unconnected
impervious cover, urban impervious area modifications as described in the NRCS
Technical Release 55 - Urban Hydrology for Small Watersheds or other methods
may be employed.
   F.   If the invert of the outlet structure of a stormwater management
measure is below the flood hazard design flood elevation as defined at N.J.A.C.
7:13, the design engineer shall take into account the effects of tailwater in
the design of structural stormwater management measures.
   G.   Groundwater recharge may be calculated in accordance with the New
Jersey Geological Survey Report GSR-32, A Method for Evaluating Groundwater-
Recharge Areas in New Jersey, incorporated herein by reference as amended and
supplemented. Information regarding the methodology is available from the New
Jersey Stormwater Best Management Practices Manual; at the New Jersey
Geological Survey website at: https://www.nj.gov/dep/njgs/pricelst/gsreport/
gsr32.pdf or at New Jersey Geological and Water Survey, 29 Arctic Parkway, PO
Box 420 Mail Code 29-01, Trenton, New Jersey 08625-0420.
§ 175-174. Sources for technical guidance.
   A.   Technical guidance for stormwater management measures can be found in
the documents listed below, which are available to download from the NJDEP's
website at: http://www.nj.gov/dep/stormwater/bmp_manual2.htm.
      (1)   Guidelines for stormwater management measures are contained in the
New Jersey Stormwater BMP Manual, as amended and supplemented. Information is
provided on stormwater management measures such as, but not limited to, those
listed in Tables 1, 2, and 3 of §
175-172E. The New Jersey Stormwater BMP Manual may be utilized as a guide in
determining the extent to which stormwater management activities and measures
meet the standards of this article.
      (2)   Additional maintenance guidance is available on the NJDEP's website
at: https://www.njstormwater.org/maintenance_guidance.htm.
   B.   (1)   Submissions required for review by the NJDEP should be mailed to:
         The Division of Water Quality, New Jersey Department of Environmental
Protection, Mail Code 401-02B, PO Box 420, Trenton, New Jersey 08625-0420.
      (2)   Submissions required for review by the Pinelands Commission should
be emailed to appinfo@pinelands.nj.gov.
§ 175-175. Solids and floatable materials control standards.
   A.   Site design features identified under §
175-172E., or alternative designs in accordance with §
175-172F., to prevent discharge of trash and debris from drainage systems shall
comply with the following standard to control passage of solid and floatable
materials through storm drain inlets. For purposes of this paragraph, "solid
and floatable materials" means sediment, debris, trash, and other floating,
suspended, or settleable solids. For exemptions to this standard see (2) below.
      (1)   Design engineers shall use one of the following grates whenever
they use a grate in pavement or another ground surface to collect stormwater
from that surface into a storm drain or surface water body under that grate:
         (a)   The New Jersey Department of Transportation (NJDOT) bicycle safe
grate, which is described in Chapter 2.4 of the NJDOT Bicycle Compatible
Roadways and Bikeways Planning and Design Guidelines; or
         (b)   A different grate, if each individual clear space in that grate
has an area of no more than seven square inches, or is no greater than one-
half-inch across the smallest dimension.
            Examples of grates subject to this standard include grates in grate
inlets, the grate portion (non-curb-opening portion) of combination inlets,
grates on storm sewer manholes, ditch grates, trench grates, and grates of
spacer bars in slotted drains. Examples of ground surfaces include surfaces of
roads (including bridges), driveways, parking areas, bikeways, plazas,
sidewalks, lawns, fields, open channels, and stormwater system floors used to
collect stormwater from the surface into a storm drain or surface water body.
         (c)   For curb-opening inlets, including curb-opening inlets in
combination inlets, the clear space in that curb opening, or each individual
clear space if the curb opening has two or more clear spaces, shall have an
area of no more than seven square inches, or be no greater than two inches
across the smallest dimension.
      (2)   The standard in (1) above does not apply:
         (a)   Where each individual clear space in the curb opening in
existing curb-opening inlet does not have an area of more than nine square
inches;
         (b)   Where the municipality agrees that the standards would cause
inadequate hydraulic performance that could not practicably be overcome by
using additional or larger storm drain inlets;
         (c)   Where flows from the water quality design storm established at §
175-172P.(4) are conveyed through any device (e.g., end of pipe netting
facility, manufactured treatment device, or a catch basin hood) that is
designed, at a minimum, to prevent delivery of all solid and floatable
materials that could not pass through one of the following:
            [1]   A rectangular space four and five-eighths inches long and one
and one-half inches wide (this option does not apply for outfall netting
facilities); or
            [2]   A bar screen having a bar spacing of one-half-inch.
            Note that these exemptions do not authorize any infringement of
requirements in the Residential Site Improvement Standards for bicycle safe
grates in new residential development (N.J.A.C. 5:21-4.18(b)2 and 7.4(b)1).
         (d)   Where flows are conveyed through a trash rack that has parallel
bars with one-inch spacing between the bars, to the elevation of the Water
Quality Design Storm established at §
175-172P.(4); or
         (e)   Where the NJDEP determines, pursuant to the New Jersey Register
of Historic Places Rules at N.J.A.C. 7:4-7.2(c), that action to meet this
standard is an undertaking that constitutes an encroachment or will damage or
destroy the New Jersey Register listed historic property.
§ 175-176. Safety standards for stormwater management basins.
   A.   This section sets forth requirements to protect public safety through
the proper design and operation of stormwater management BMPs. This section
applies to any new stormwater management BMP.
   B.   The provisions of this section are not intended to preempt more
stringent municipal or county safety requirements for new or existing
stormwater management BMPs. Municipal and county stormwater management plans
and ordinances may, pursuant to their authority, require existing stormwater
management BMPs to be retrofitted to meet one or more of the safety standards
in C.(1), (2) or (3) below for trash racks, overflow grates, and escape
provisions at outlet structures.
   C.   Requirements for trash racks, overflow grates and escape provisions.
      (1)   A trash rack is a device designed to catch trash and debris and
prevent the clogging of outlet structures. Trash racks shall be installed at
the intake to the outlet from the Stormwater management BMP to ensure proper
functioning of the BMP outlets in accordance with the following:
         (a)   The trash rack shall have parallel bars, with no greater than
six-inch spacing between the bars;
         (b)   The trash rack shall be designed so as not to adversely affect
the hydraulic performance of the outlet pipe or structure;
         (c)   The average velocity of flow through a clean trash rack is not
to exceed two and one-half feet per second under the full range of stage and
discharge. Velocity is to be computed on the basis of the net area of opening
through the rack; and
         (d)   The trash rack shall be constructed of rigid, durable, and
corrosion resistant material and designed to withstand a perpendicular live
loading of 300 pounds per square foot.
      (2)   An overflow grate is designed to prevent obstruction of the
overflow structure. If an outlet structure has an overflow grate, the grate
shall comply with the following requirements:
         (a)   The overflow grate shall be secured to the outlet structure but
removable for emergencies and maintenance.
         (b)   The overflow grate spacing shall be no greater than two inches
across the smallest dimension
         (c)   The overflow grate shall be constructed of rigid, durable, and
corrosion resistant material, and shall be designed to withstand a
perpendicular live loading of 300 pounds per square foot.
      (3)   Stormwater management BMPs shall include escape provisions as
follows:
         (a)   If a stormwater management BMP has an outlet structure, escape
provisions shall be incorporated in or on the structure. Escape provisions
include the installation of permanent ladders, steps, rungs, or other features
that provide easily accessible means of egress from stormwater management BMPs.
With the prior approval of the municipality pursuant to D. below, a free-
standing outlet structure may be exempted from this requirement;
         (b)   Safety ledges shall be constructed on the slopes of all new
stormwater management BMPs having a permanent pool of water deeper than two and
one-half feet. Safety ledges shall be comprised of two steps. Each step shall
be four to six feet in width. One step shall be located approximately two and
one-half feet below the permanent water surface, and the second step shall be
located one to one and one-half feet above the permanent water surface. See E
below for an illustration of safety ledges in a stormwater management BMP; and
         (c)   In new stormwater management BMPs, the maximum interior slope
for an earthen dam, embankment, or berm shall not be steeper than three
horizontal to one vertical.
   D.   Variance or exemption from safety standard. A variance or exemption
from the safety standards for stormwater management BMPs may be granted only
upon a written finding by the municipality that the variance or exemption will
not constitute a threat to public safety.
   E.   Safety ledge illustration.
   Figure 1. Elevation View - Basin Safety Ledge Configuration
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/20e1736e3042862e66af58b319be1a72254f3dab/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3281.png]
 
§ 175-177. Requirements for a site development stormwater plan.
   A.   Submission of site development stormwater plan.
      (1)   Any application for major development approval shall include a Site
Development Stormwater Plan containing all information required in §
175-177C.
      (2)   Any application for minor development approval that is subject to
this article shall include a Site Development Stormwater Plan containing all
information required in §
175-177D.
      (3)   The Site Development Stormwater Plan shall demonstrate that the
proposed development meets the standards of this article.
      (4)   The Site Development Stormwater Plan shall contain comprehensive
hydrologic and hydraulic design calculations for the pre-development and post-
development conditions for the design storms specified in §
175-172P.(4). The standards for groundwater recharge and stormwater runoff
rate, volume and quality required by §
175-172O., P., and Q. and shall be met using the methods, calculations and
assumptions provided in §
175-173.
      (5)   The application submission requirements of (1) and (2) above shall
be in addition to all other applicable application submission requirements of
the municipality's land development regulations.
      (6)   The applicant shall submit 12 copies of the Site Development
Stormwater Plan. All required engineering plans shall be in CAD Format 15 or
higher, registered and rectified to NAD 1983 State Plane New Jersey FIPS 2900
US Feet or Shape Format NAD 1983 State Plane New Jersey FIPS 2900 US Feet. All
other required documents shall be submitted in both paper and commonly used
electronic file formats such as .pdf, word processing, database or spreadsheet
files.
   B.   Site development stormwater plan approval. The Site Development
Stormwater Plan shall be reviewed as a part of the development review process
by the municipal board or official from whom municipal approval is sought. That
municipal board or official shall consult the engineer retained by the Planning
and/or Zoning Board (as appropriate) to determine if all the checklist
requirements have been satisfied and to determine if the project meets the
standards set forth in this article.
   C.   Checklist requirements for major development. Any application for major
development approval shall include a Site Development Stormwater Plan
containing, at minimum, the following information.
      (1)   Topographic base map. The Site Development Stormwater Plan shall
contain a topographic base map of the site that extends a minimum of 300 feet
beyond the limits of the proposed development, at a scale of one inch = 200
feet or greater, showing one-foot contour intervals. The map shall indicate the
following: existing surface water drainage, shorelines, steep slopes, soils,
highly erodible soils, perennial or intermittent streams that drain into or
upstream of any Category One or Pinelands Waters, wetlands and floodplains
along with any required wetlands transition areas, marshlands and other
wetlands, pervious or vegetative surfaces, existing surface and subsurface
human-made structures, roads, bearing and distances of property lines, and
significant natural and manmade features not otherwise shown. Hammonton Town or
the Pinelands Commission may require upstream tributary drainage system
information as necessary.
      (2)   Environmental site analysis. The Site Development Stormwater Plan
shall contain a written description along with the drawings of the natural and
human-made features of the site and its environs. This description shall
include:
         (a)   A discussion of environmentally critical areas, soil conditions,
slopes, wetlands, waterways and vegetation on the site. Particular attention
shall be given to unique, unusual or environmentally sensitive features and to
those features that provide particular opportunities for or constraints on
development; and
         (b)   Detailed soil and other environmental conditions on the portion
of the site proposed for installation of any stormwater management measures,
including, at a minimum:
            [1]   A soils report based on onsite soil tests;
            [2]   Location and spot elevations in plan view of all test pits
and permeability tests;
            [3]   Permeability test data and calculations;
            [4]   Any other required soil or hydrogeologic data (e.g., mounding
analyses results) correlated with location and elevation of each test site;
            [5]   A cross-section of all proposed stormwater management
measures with side-by-side depiction of soil profile drawn to scale and
seasonal high water table elevation identified; and
            [6]   Any other information necessary to demonstrate the
suitability of the specific proposed stormwater management measures relative to
the environmental conditions on the portion(s) of the site proposed for
implementation of those measures.
      (3)   Project description and site plan(s). The Site Development
Stormwater Plan shall contain a map (or maps), at the same scale as the
topographical base map, indicating the location of existing and proposed
buildings, roads, parking areas, utilities, structural facilities for
stormwater management and sediment control, and other permanent structures. The
map(s) shall also clearly show areas where alterations will occur in the
natural terrain and cover, including lawns and other landscaping, and seasonal
high groundwater elevations. A written description of the site plan and
justification for proposed changes in natural conditions shall also be
provided.
      (4)   Land use planning and source control plan. The Site Development
Stormwater Plan shall contain a Land Use Planning and Source Control Plan
demonstrating compliance with the erosion control, groundwater recharge,
stormwater runoff quantity control and stormwater quality treatment required by
this article. This shall include, but is not limited to:
         (a)   Information demonstrating that the proposed stormwater
management measures are able to achieve a minimum 65 percent reduction of the
post-construction total nitrogen load, in accordance with §
175-172P.(7).
         (b)   Where any stormwater generated from high pollutant loading areas
or where stormwater will be exposed to source material, information
demonstrating that the proposed stormwater management measures are consistent
with §
175-172P.(8).
      (5)   Stormwater management facilities map. The Site Development
Stormwater Plan shall contain a Stormwater Management Facilities Map, at the
same scale as the topographic base map, depicting the following information:
         (a)   The total area to be disturbed, paved and/or built upon,
proposed surface contours, land area to be occupied by the stormwater
management facilities and the type of vegetation thereon, and details of the
proposed plan to manage and recharge stormwater; and
         (b)   Details of all stormwater management facility designs, during
and after construction, including discharge provisions, discharge capacity for
each outlet at different levels of detention (if applicable) and emergency
spillway provisions with maximum discharge capacity of each spillway.
      (6)   Groundwater mounding analysis. The Site Development Stormwater Plan
shall contain a groundwater mounding analysis in accordance with §
175-172G.(1).
      (7)   Inspection, maintenance and repair plan. The Site Development
Stormwater Plan shall contain an Inspection, Maintenance and Repair Plan
containing information meeting the requirements of §
175-178B. of this article.
   D.   Checklist requirements for minor development. Any application for minor
development approval that is subject to this article shall include a Site
Development Stormwater Plan, certified by a design engineer, containing, at
minimum, the following information:
      (1)   All existing and proposed development, including limits of clearing
and land disturbance.
      (2)   All existing and proposed lot lines.
      (3)   All wetlands and required wetland transition areas.
      (4)   The type and location of each green infrastructure stormwater
management measure.
      (5)   A cross sectional drawing of each stormwater management measure
showing the associated:
         (a)   Soil profile;
         (b)   Soil permeability test elevation;
         (c)   Soil permeability rate; and
         (d)   The elevation of, and vertical separation to, the seasonal high
water table.
      (6)   A design engineer's certification that each green infrastructure
stormwater management measure will not adversely impact basements or septic
systems of the proposed development, in accordance with §
175-172G.(2).
      (7)   A maintenance plan containing information meeting the requirements
of §
175-178B. of this article.
   E.   Exception from submission requirements. With the exception of C.(7) and
D.(7) above, the municipality may modify or waive any required element of the
Site Development Stormwater Plan, provided that sufficient information can be
provided to demonstrate compliance with the standards of this article. However,
application information required in accordance with the Pinelands CMP (N.J.A.C.
7:50-4.2(b)) shall be submitted to the Pinelands Commission, unless the
Executive Director of the Pinelands Commission waives or modifies the
application requirements.
§ 175-178. Maintenance and repair.
   A.   All development regulated under this article shall incorporate a
maintenance plan, prepared by the design engineer, consistent with B. below.
Maintenance and repair shall be implemented in accordance with maintenance plan
and C. below.
   B.   The maintenance plan shall include the following:
      (1)   Specific preventative maintenance tasks and schedules; cost
estimates, including estimated cost of sediment, debris, or trash removal; and
the name, address, and telephone number of the person or persons responsible
for preventative and corrective maintenance (including replacement). The plan
shall contain information on BMP location, design, ownership, maintenance tasks
and frequencies, and other details as specified in Chapter 8 of the NJ BMP
Manual, as well as the tasks specific to the type of BMP, as described in the
applicable chapter containing design specifics.
      (2)   Responsibility for maintenance of stormwater management measures
approved as part of an application for major development shall not be assigned
or transferred to the owner or tenant of an individual property, unless such
owner or tenant owns or leases the entire site subject to the major development
approval. The individual property owner may be assigned incidental tasks, such
as weeding of a green infrastructure BMP, provided the individual agrees to
assume these tasks; however, the individual cannot be legally responsible for
all the maintenance required.
      (3)   Responsibility for maintenance of stormwater management measures
approved as part of an application for minor development may be assigned or
transferred to the owner or tenant of the parcel.
      (4)   If the maintenance plan identifies a person other than the property
owner (for example, a developer, a public agency or homeowners' association) as
having the responsibility for maintenance, the plan shall include documentation
of such person's or entity's agreement to assume this responsibility, or of the
owner's obligation to dedicate a stormwater management facility to such person
under an applicable ordinance or regulation.
      (5)   If the person responsible for maintenance identified under (1)
above is not a public agency, the maintenance plan and any future revisions
based on §
175-178C.(2)(b) shall be recorded upon the deed of record for each property on
which the maintenance described in the maintenance plan must be undertaken.
      (6)   For all major development, the following additional standards
apply:
         (a)   The maintenance plan shall include accurate and comprehensive
drawings of all stormwater management measures on a parcel, including the
specific latitude and longitude and block/lot number of each stormwater
management measure. Maintenance plans shall specify that an inspection,
maintenance, and repair report will be updated and submitted annually to the
municipality;
         (b)   Stormwater management measure easements shall be provided by the
property owner as necessary for facility inspections and maintenance and
preservation of stormwater runoff conveyance, infiltration, and detention areas
and facilities. The purpose of the easement shall be specified in the
maintenance agreement; and
         (c)   An adequate means of ensuring permanent financing of the
inspection, maintenance, repair, and replacement plan shall be implemented and
shall be detailed in the maintenance plan. Financing methods shall include, but
not be limited to:
            [1]   The assumption of the inspection and maintenance program by a
municipality, county, public utility, or homeowners association;
            [2]   The required payment of fees to a municipal stormwater fund
in an amount equivalent to the cost of both ongoing maintenance activities and
necessary structural replacements.
      (7)   For all minor development, maintenance plans shall be required for
all stormwater management measures installed in accordance with this article
and shall include, at a minimum, the following information:
         (a)   A copy of the certified plan required pursuant to §
175-177D.;
         (b)   A description of the required maintenance activities for each
stormwater management measure; and
         (c)   The frequency of each required maintenance activity.
   C.   General maintenance and repair.
      (1)   Preventative and corrective maintenance shall be performed to
maintain the function of the stormwater management measure, including, but not
limited to, repairs or replacement to the structure; removal of sediment,
debris, or trash; restoration of eroded areas; snow and ice removal; fence
repair or replacement; restoration of vegetation; and repair or replacement of
non-vegetated linings.
      (2)   The person responsible for maintenance identified under §
175-178B.(2) shall perform all of the following requirements:
         (a)   Maintain a detailed log of all preventative and corrective
maintenance for the structural stormwater management measures incorporated into
the design of the development, including a record of all inspections and copies
of all maintenance-related work orders;
         (b)   Evaluate the effectiveness of the maintenance plan at least once
per year and adjust the plan and the deed as needed; and
         (c)   Retain and make available, upon request by any public entity
with administrative, health, environmental, or safety authority over the site,
the maintenance plan and the documentation required by (a) and (b) above.
      (3)   The requirements of B.(2), (3), and (4) above do not apply to
stormwater management facilities that are dedicated to and accepted by the
municipality or another governmental agency, subject to all applicable
municipal stormwater general permit conditions, as issued by the Department.
      (4)   In the event that the stormwater management facility becomes a
danger to public safety or public health, or if it is in need of maintenance or
repair, the municipality shall so notify the responsible person in writing.
Upon receipt of that notice, the responsible person shall have 14 days to
effect maintenance and repair of the facility in a manner that is approved by
the municipal engineer or his designee. The municipality, in its discretion,
may extend the time allowed for effecting maintenance and repair for good
cause. If the responsible person fails or refuses to perform such maintenance
and repair, the municipality or county may immediately proceed to do so and
shall bill the cost thereof to the responsible person. Nonpayment of such bill
may result in a lien on the property.
   D.   Nothing in this section shall preclude the municipality in which the
major development is located from requiring the posting of a performance or
maintenance guarantee in accordance with N.J.S.A. 40:55D-53.
§ 175-179. Variances.
   A.   The exemptions, exceptions, applicability standards, and waivers of
strict compliance contained in the NJDEP Stormwater Management Regulations at
N.J.A.C. 7:8-1.1 et seq. shall not apply within the Pinelands Area except in
accordance with this Section.
   B.   The municipal review agency may grant a variance from the design and
performance standards for stormwater management measures set forth in its
municipal stormwater management plan and this article, provided that:
      (1)   No variances shall be granted from §
175-172Q.(4), which prohibits the direct discharge of stormwater runoff to any
wetlands, wetlands transition area, or surface waterbody and the direction of
stormwater runoff in such a way as to increase in volume and rate of discharge
into any wetlands, wetlands transition area, or surface water body from that
which existed prior to development of the parcel;
      (2)   The municipal stormwater plan includes a mitigation plan in
accordance with N.J.A.C. 7:8-4.2(c)11 and N.J.A.C. 7:50-3.39(a)2viii;
      (3)   The applicant demonstrates that it is technically impracticable to
meet any one or more of the design and performance standards on-site. For the
purposes of this analysis, technical impracticability exists only when the
design and performance standard cannot be met for engineering, environmental,
or safety reasons. A municipality's approval of a variance shall apply to an
individual drainage area and design and performance standard and shall not
apply to an entire site or project, unless an applicant provides the required
analysis for each drainage area within the site and each design and performance
standard;
      (4)   The applicant demonstrates that the proposed design achieves the
maximum possible compliance with the design and performance standards of this
article on-site; and
      (5)   A mitigation project is implemented, in accordance with the
following:
         (a)   All mitigation projects shall be located in the Pinelands Area
and in the same HUC-14 as the parcel proposed for development. If the applicant
demonstrates that no such mitigation project is available, the municipality may
approve a variance that provides for mitigation within the same HUC-11 as the
parcel proposed for development, provided the mitigation project is located in
the Pinelands Area.
         (b)   The proposed mitigation project shall be consistent with the
municipal stormwater management plan certified by the Pinelands Commission. If
said stormwater management plan does not identify appropriate parcels or
projects where mitigation may occur, the applicant may propose a mitigation
project that meets the criteria in (a) above.
         (c)   The mitigation project shall be approved no later than
preliminary or final site plan approval of the major development.
         (d)   The mitigation project shall be constructed prior to, or
concurrently with, the development receiving the variance.
         (e)   The mitigation project shall comply with the green
infrastructure standards at §
175-172N.
         (f)   If the variance that resulted in the mitigation project being
required is from the green infrastructure standards at §
175-172N., then the mitigation project must use green infrastructure BMPs in
Table 1 contained at §
175-172E., and/or an alternative stormwater management measure approved in
accordance with §
175-172F. that meets the definition of green infrastructure to manage an
equivalent or greater area of impervious surface and an equivalent or greater
area of motor vehicle surface as the area of the major development subject to
the variance. Grass swales and vegetative filter strips may only be used in the
mitigation project if the proposed project additionally includes a green
infrastructure BMP other than a grass swale or vegetative filter strip. The
green infrastructure used in the mitigation project must be sized to manage the
water quality design storm established at §
175-172P.(4), at a minimum, and is subject to the applicable contributory
drainage area limitation specified at §
175-172N.(2), as applicable.
      (g)   A variance from the groundwater recharge standards at §
175-172O. may be granted provided that the total volume of stormwater
infiltrated by the mitigation project equals or exceeds the volume required at
§
175-172O.
      (h)   A variance from the stormwater runoff quality standards at §
175-172P. may be granted if the following are met:
         [1]   The total drainage area of motor vehicle surface managed by the
mitigation project(s) must equal or exceed the drainage area of the area of the
major development subject to the variance and must provide sufficient TSS
removal to equal or exceed the deficit resulting from granting the variance for
the major development; and
         [2]   The mitigation project must remove nutrients to the maximum
extent feasible in accordance with §
175-172P.(7).
      (i)   A variance from the stormwater runoff quantity standards at §
175-172Q. may be granted if the following are met:
         [1]   The applicant demonstrates, through hydrologic and hydraulic
analysis, including the effects of the mitigation project, that the variance
will not result in increased flooding damage below each point of discharge of
the major development;
         [2]   The mitigation project indirectly discharges to the same
watercourse and is located upstream of the major development subject to the
variance; and
         [3]   The mitigation project provides peak flow rate attenuation in
accordance with §
175-172Q.(2)(c) for an equivalent or greater area than the area of the major
development subject to the variance. For the purposes of this demonstration,
equivalent includes both size of the area and percentage of impervious surface
and/or motor vehicle surface.
      (j)   The applicant or the entity assuming maintenance responsibility for
the associated major development shall be responsible for preventive and
corrective maintenance (including replacement) of the mitigation project and
shall be identified as such in the maintenance plan established in accordance
with §
175-178. This responsibility is not transferable to any entity other than a
public agency, in which case a written agreement with that public agency must
be submitted to the review agency.
   C.   Any approved variance shall be submitted by the municipal review agency
to the county review agency and the NJDEP, by way of a written report
describing the variance, as well as the required mitigation, within 30 days of
the approval.
§ 175-180. Penalties.
Any person(s) who erects, constructs, alters, repairs, converts, maintains, or
uses any building, structure or land in violation of this article shall be
subject the penalties and enforcement provisions set forth in §
175-163 and §
175-164.
ARTICLE XVIII Personal Wireless Telecommunications Facilities
[Added 8-23-2004 by Ord. No. 22-2004]
§ 175-181. Purpose.
   The purpose of this article is to provide procedures, standards and
regulations for personal wireless telecommunications and similar facilities and
to protect the Town of Hammonton from the visual or other adverse impacts of
these facilities, while encouraging their unobtrusive development to provide
the benefits of comprehensive wireless telecommunications services to the Town
of Hammonton, its residents and businesses. The Town expresses a preference
that all antennas be located on existing buildings and towers or on municipal
or other public property, and in nonresidential zones, rather than to construct
newly constructed telecommunications towers and telecommunications facilities.
§ 175-182. Development.
   A.   All facilities and structures constructed pursuant to this article
shall comply with the standards of N.J.A.C. 7:50-5.4 of the Pinelands
Comprehensive Management Plan and any comprehensive plan for local
communications facilities approved by the Pinelands Commission in accordance
with N.J.A.C. 7:50-5.4(c)6. The applicant shall also comply with §
175-60 of the Municipal Land Use Law of the Town of Hammonton.
   B.   All antennas, antenna support structures, personal wireless
telecommunications facilities, personal wireless telecommunications equipment
facilities, and telecommunications towers are conditional uses within all zone
districts of the Town of Hammonton and are subject to Planning Board review and
approval pursuant to the following standards and requirements:
      (1)   Any application for a PWTF shall require major site plan approval.
A previously approved collocation site, where only the addition of PWTEFs
equipment is proposed, shall require minor site plan approval.
      (2)   In order to provide full wireless communications service within the
Town of Hammonton, PWTFs and PWTEFs shall be permitted in the following
priority of locations. Locations cited in a comprehensive plan for Local
Communications facilities approved by the Pinelands Commission shall serve as
evidence of the suitability for a PWTF at a specific site but shall not be
conclusive.
         (a)   The first priority location shall be collocation on existing
PWTFs or existing structures, provided the new installation does not increase
the height of the structure by more than 15 feet.
         (b)   The second priority location shall be on lands or structures in
any nonresidential zone owned by the Town of Hammonton, the Town of Hammonton
School Board, or any other governmental entity.
         (c)   The third priority location shall be on lands or structures
which were previously privately owned in any nonresidential zone.
         (d)   The fourth priority location shall be such locations as the
applicant proves are essential to provide required wireless communications
service within the Town of Hammonton.
      (3)   New telecommunications towers shall be permitted in the FA, PA and
SAPA Districts only at the following locations:
         (a)   On developed publicly owned lands within 500 feet of an existing
structure, provided the facility will be located on previously disturbed lands
that have not subsequently been restored and that no facility will be located
on state, county or municipal conservation lands, state recreation lands or
county and municipal lands used for low-intensity recreational purposes.
         (b)   On the parcel of an approved resource extraction operation,
provided the facility will be located on previously disturbed lands that have
not subsequently been restored.
         (c)   On the parcel of an existing first-aid or fire station.
         (d)   On the parcel of an existing landfill, provided the facility
will be located on previously disturbed lands that have not subsequently been
restored.
      (4)   An applicant shall seek to site a PWTF or PWTEF in accordance with
the following hierarchy, with the first designation being the location of
greatest preference:
         (a)   Within a Pinelands town, including the B-1, B-2, M-1, MD and REC
Districts.
         (b)   Within an Agricultural Production Area, including the AP and AP/
CLI Districts.
         (c)   Within the Preservation Area District, a Special Agricultural
Production Area or a Forest Area, including the PA, SAPA and FAFA Districts.
      (5)   All PWTF and PWTEF sites shall be located to minimize visual
impacts on the surrounding area in accordance with the following standards. In
applying these standards, locations in a higher-priority category under
Subsection B(2) shall be deemed more acceptable than lower-priority sites.
         (a)   At sites for all PWTFs and PWTEFs, the applicant for low-
intensity recreation facilities and campgrounds must demonstrate they provide
the least visual impact on residential areas and public rights-of-way. All
potential visual impacts must be analyzed to demonstrate that the selected site
provides an opportunity to minimize the visual impact of the proposed facility.
         (b)   All PWTEF sites should be located to avoid being visually
solitary or prominent when viewed from residential areas and public rights-of-
way. The facility should be obscured by vegetation, tree cover, topographic
features and/or other structures to the maximum extent feasible.
         (c)   All PWTFs and PWTEFs shall be placed to ensure that existing
views capes, streetscapes, and landscapes are protected. The views of and
vistas from architecturally significant structures should not be impaired or
diminished by the placement of PWTFs or PWTEFs.
§ 175-183. Design standards.
   The following design standards shall apply to all PWTFs and PWTEFs installed
or constructed pursuant to the terms of this article:
   A.   PWTFs and PWTEF's shall be surrounded by a security fence. The security
fence shall be either chain link, or a style architecturally suitable to the
location, of at least six feet in height. All telecommunications towers shall
be designed with anti-climbing devices and to prevent unauthorized access.
Additional safety devices may be permitted or required, as needed, for the
safety of the public, and as approved by the Board.
   B.   All landscaping on a parcel of land containing PWTFs and PWTEFs shall
be in accordance with the applicable landscaping requirements as set forth in
the Town of Hammonton Municipal Land Use Ordinance at §
175-136. In addition to said requirements, the Board may also require a
perimeter of trees which, upon maturity, would be 30 feet or higher, planted in
a circular pattern around such PWTFs and PWTEFs. Additionally, any area not
planted with trees shall be landscaped to create an aesthetically pleasing
environment and to enhance the comparability with adjacent land uses.
   C.   Signs shall not be permitted except for signs displaying owner contact
information, warnings, equipment information, and safety instructions. Such
signs shall not exceed five square feet in area. No commercial advertising
shall be permitted on any PWTF and PWTEF.
   D.   PWTFs shall be of a color appropriate to the tower's locational context
and designed to make it as unobtrusive as possible, unless otherwise required
by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA).
   E.   All equipment shall be designed and automated to the greatest extent
possible in order to reduce the need for on-site maintenance and to minimize
the need for vehicular trips to and from the site. Access shall be from
established site access points whenever possible. Off-street parking shall be
provided as needed.
   F.   No lighting is permitted except as follows:
      (1)   PWTEFs enclosing electronic equipment may have security and safety
lighting at the entrance, provided the lighting is attached to the facility, is
focused downward, and is on timing devices and/or sensors so the light turns
off when not needed for safety or security purposes.
      (2)   No lighting is permitted on a PWTF except lighting that
specifically is required by the Federal Aviation Administration and for the
safety of aviation. Any such lighting shall be focused and shielded to the
greatest extent possible so as not to project towards nearby residential
properties.
   G.   Any proposed new telecommunications tower shall be of a monopole design
unless the applicant can demonstrate a different type of telecommunications
tower is necessary for the collocation of additional antennas or to transmit an
appropriate signal. To the extent possible, such towers may employ camouflage
technology.
   H.   No equipment on site shall be operated so as to produce noise in excess
of the limits set forth in §
175-120, except for emergency situations.
   I.   PWTFS must be constructed in compliance with the Electronic Industries
Association/Telecommunications Industries Association 222 Revision F standard
(ANSI/TIA/ELA-222-F-96) entitled "Structural Standards for Steel Antenna Towers
and Antenna Supporting Structures" (or equivalent), as it may be updated or
amended.
   J.   PWTFs shall be maintained to assure their continued structural
integrity. The owner of the PWTF shall also perform such other maintenance on
the structure and the landscaping of the site as to assure it does not create a
visual nuisance.
§ 175-184. Collocation policy.
   A.   The Town of Hammonton's Municipal Engineer shall maintain an inventory
of existing PWTF sites within the Town of Hammonton.
   B.   An applicant proposing a PWTF at a new location shall demonstrate that
it made a reasonable attempt to find a collocation site acceptable to the
applicable engineering standard and none was practically or economically
feasible.
   C.   Each application for a new PWTF site shall be accompanied by a plan
which shall reference all existing PWTF locations in the Town of Hammonton and
any such facilities in the abutting municipalities which provide service to
areas within the Town of Hammonton.
   D.   Each application shall include a site location alternative analysis,
describing the location of other sites considered, the availability of those
sites, the extent to which other sites do or do not meet the provider's service
or engineering needs, and the reasons why the proposed site was chosen. The
analysis shall include, but is not limited to:
      (1)   How the proposed location of the PETF or PWTEF relates to the
location of any existing sites within and near the Town of Hammonton.
      (2)   How the location of the proposed PWTF or PWTEF relates to the
anticipated need for additional wireless communications antennas within the
Town of Hammonton by the applicant.
      (3)   How the proposed location of the proposed PWTF or PWTEF relates to
the objective of allocating the antennas of many different providers of
wireless communications services on the same PWTF; and
      (4)   A report, prepared and signed by a qualified expert, documenting
the capacity of any proposed PWTF for the number and type of antennas;
      (5)   A letter of intent signed by the applicant, indicating the
applicant will share the use of any PWTF with other licensed providers of
wireless communications services.
      (6)   The applicant shall supply the Town Engineer appropriate certified
longitude and latitude information for Hammonton's G.I.S. data bank.
      (7)   How the proposed location of the PWTF or PWTEF relates to any
comprehensive plan for local community facilities which has been approved by
the Pinelands Commission pursuant to N.J.A.C. 7:50-5.4(c).
   E.   The appropriate Land Use Board may retain its own technical consultants
as it deems necessary to provide assistance in the review of the site location
alternatives analysis or other aspects of the application. The applicant shall
bear the reasonable cost associated with such consultation, which cost shall be
deposited in accordance with the Town of Hammonton's escrow provisions.
   F.   Any PWTF which is not operated for any continuous period of 12 months
shall be considered abandoned. If there are two or more users of a single PWTF,
then the abandonment shall not become effective until all users cease using the
PWTF for any continuous period of 12 months. The owner of such PWTF shall
remove same within 90 days of notice from the Town of Hammonton's Zoning
Officer that the PWTF is abandoned. If such PWTF is not removed within said 90
days, the Town of Hammonton may remove such PWTF at the owner's expense. Upon
the dismantling and removal of a PWTF, the property on which the facility was
located shall be restored in accordance with N.J.A.C. 7:50-6.24.
   G.   New PWTFs may be constructed to a maximum height of 200 feet above
ground level. All towers shall be designed so that their height may be
increased to 200 feet if necessary to accommodate the needs of other PWTFs in
the future. Any PWTF mounted on an existing building or structure shall not
extend beyond the overall height of any such building or structure by more than
15 feet. PWTEFs are limited to 15 feet in height. The height shall be subject
to FAA approval.
   H.   All PWTF and PWTEF shall be subject to a minimum lot size requirement
of either the square of 1/2 the height of the PWTF, or the minimum yard
requirement of the zone in which it is located, whichever is greater. If PWTFs
are located on the roof of a building or structure, the area of the PWTFs and
PWTEF shall not occupy more than 25% of the roof area.
   I.   PWTFs shall be separated from all residential dwellings by a minimum of
200 feet. To the extent this subsection imposes a greater setback requirement
than otherwise set forth in the Town of Hammonton's Municipal Land Use
Ordinances, this section shall be controlling.
ARTICLE XIX Wind and Solar Energy Systems
[Added 3-28-2011 by Ord. No. 4-2011]
§ 175-185. Purpose.
   A.   The purpose of this article is to provide procedures, standards and
regulations for installation and maintenance of small wind energy systems, wind
energy systems and solar energy systems and to protect the Town of Hammonton
from the visual or other adverse impacts of these facilities, while encouraging
their unobtrusive development to provide the benefits of alternative clean
energy to the Town of Hammonton, its residents and businesses.
   B.   The primary purpose of a wind or solar energy system shall be to
provide power for the principal use of the property whereon said system is to
be located rather than for the generation of power for commercial purposes,
although this provision shall not be interpreted to prohibit the sale of excess
power generated from time to time from a wind or solar energy system designed
to meet the energy needs of the principal use. For the purposes of this
subsection, the sale of excess power shall be limited so that in no event shall
an energy system be designed to generate more energy for sale than that which
is reasonably necessary to power the principal use on the property.
§ 175-186. Small wind energy systems and solar energy systems permitted as
accessory uses; restrictions.
   A.   All small wind energy systems and solar energy systems are permitted
accessory structures and uses within all zoning districts of the Town of
Hammonton in connection with any principal use lawfully existing within such
district. Any question of whether a particular use is permitted as an accessory
use by the provisions of this section shall be determined by the Town Planner
and Zoning Officer.
   B.   No small wind energy system or solar energy system shall be established
or constructed unless a zoning permit evidencing the compliance of such use or
structure with the provisions of this section shall have first been issued. The
exception to this provision is any structure or use requiring site plan
approval.
   C.   In addition to all of the use limitations applicable in the district in
which a small wind energy system or solar energy system is located, no such
system shall be permitted unless it complies with the following restrictions:
      (1)   No sign or other advertising, except as expressly authorized by
this section or by §
175-161 shall be maintained in connection with an accessory use; and
      (2)   No small wind energy system or solar energy system shall be
constructed or established on any lot prior to the time of the substantial
completion of the principal structure to which it is accessory. Agricultural
uses are exempt from this provision.
   D.   Wind and solar energy systems shall only be permitted as an accessory
use on the same lot as the principal use. All energy systems require approval
from the Zoning Officer and construction office prior to installation.
Applications for an energy system shall include information demonstrating
compliance with the provisions of this subsection. In the event that the Zoning
Officer or construction office does not believe the proposed installation
satisfies the conditions of this subsection, an applicant may request a
variance from the Town of Hammonton Zoning Board of Adjustment.
§ 175-187. Development requirements for wind energy systems.
   A.   Wind energy systems (as defined herein) and wind turbines shall be
permitted in all agricultural, forest and preservation districts subject to the
following requirements:
      (1)   Minimum lot size: three acres.
      (2)   Minimum setbacks. All wind turbines shall be set back from all
property lines a distance equal to 125% of the height of the structure
including the blades.
      (3)   Wind turbines shall not be permitted in any front yard.
      (4)   Maximum height. Freestanding wind turbines shall not exceed a
height of 80 feet on lots between one acre and three acres. On lots of three
acres or more, a maximum height of 200 feet is permitted. The maximum height
shall include the height of the blades at their highest point.
      (5)   No more than one wind turbine shall be permitted per property.
      (6)   Wind turbines shall not be permitted as a rooftop installation.
   B.   Wind energy systems shall be subject to the bulk requirements for that
district and the following:
      (1)   Minimum lot size: three acres.
      (2)   The maximum height for a wind turbine shall not exceed 200 feet,
including the height of the blades at their highest point. No moving part shall
be less then 30 feet from the nearest ground surface.
      (3)   Minimum setbacks. All wind turbines shall be set back from all
property lines a distance equal to 125% of the height of the structure
including the blades.
      (4)   Wind turbines shall not be permitted in a front yard.
      (5)   No more than one wind turbine shall be permitted per lot.
      (6)   Wind turbines shall not be permitted as a rooftop installation.
      (7)   The tower shall be designed and installed so as not to provide step
bolts, a ladder, or other publicly accessible means of climbing the tower for a
minimum height of eight feet above the ground.
   C.   Noise. All wind energy systems shall comply with the following:
      (1)   In all other cases at a common property line sound levels of the
wind energy system shall not exceed 65 dBA.
      (2)   These levels may be exceeded during short-term events such as
utility outages and/or severe wind storms.
   D.   Wind turbines shall be designed with an automatic brake or other
similar device to prevent over-speeding and excessive pressure on the tower
structure.
   E.   Wind energy systems shall not be artificially lighted, except to the
extent required by the FAA or other applicable governmental authority.
   F.   All wind energy systems shall maintain ground-mounted electrical and
control equipment and shall be labeled and secured to prevent unauthorized
access.
   G.   All moving parts of the wind energy system shall be a minimum of 30
feet above ground level.
   H.   The blades on the wind energy system shall be constructed of a
corrosion- resistant material.
   I.   All guy wires or any part of the wind energy system shall be located on
the same lot as the energy system.
   J.   Nothing contained herein shall waive any obligation on the part of any
developer of a wind energy system to comply with all FAA regulations regarding
interference with aircraft.
§ 175-188. Development requirements for solar energy systems.
   A.   Solar panels shall be permitted as a rooftop installation in any zoning
district. The solar panels shall not exceed a height of 12 inches from the
rooftop. In no event shall the placement of the solar panels result in a total
height, including building and panels, in excess of that which is permitted in
that particular zone for the principal building.
   B.   Solar panels shall be permitted as ground arrays in the AP (Agriculture
Production District), AP/CLI (Agricultural Production/Compatible Light Industry
District) and nonresidential zoning districts, in accordance with the
following:
[Amended 5-20-2019 by Ord. No. 13-2019]
      (1)   All ground arrays shall be set back a distance in conformance with
the bulk standards for accessory structures in commercial districts as provided
herein.
      (2)   Ground arrays shall not be permitted in the HB, Downtown and
Gateway Districts.
      (3)   Ground arrays shall be located so that any glare is directed away
from an adjoining property that contains either a residential or nonresidential
structure. If the ground arrays cannot be situated in such a way to avoid any
glare on an adjoining property which contains either a residential or other
structure designed for human occupancy then the Applicant shall be required to
install screening along the property line to the satisfaction of the Town
Planner.
      (4)   Ground arrays shall not exceed a height of 15 feet.
      (5)   Ground arrays shall be structures included in the calculation of
lot coverage. The lot coverage including ground arrays shall not exceed the
permitted lot coverage within a zoning district.
   C.   Ground arrays shall be permitted as a Conditional Use in the PA
(Preservation Area District), SAP (Special Agriculture Production District), RR
(Rural Residential District), R-1 (Residential-1 District), R-2 (Residential-
2 District) and R-3 (Residential-3 District) only, in accordance with the
following conditions:
[Added 5-20-2019 by Ord. No. 13-2019]
      (1)   Minimum lot size shall be 65,340 square feet.
      (2)   All ground arrays shall be set back from property boundaries a
distance in conformance with the bulk standards for principal structures.
      (3)   Ground arrays shall be located so that any glare is directed away
from an adjoining property that contains either a residential or nonresidential
structure. Glare angles must be provided at the time of submission or the
application will not be complete.
      (4)   Ground arrays shall not exceed a height of 15 feet.
      (5)   Ground arrays shall be structures included in the calculation of
lot coverage. The lot coverage including ground arrays shall not exceed the
permitted lot coverage within a zoning district.
      (6)   Ground arrays shall not be closer to any street line adjoining the
lot upon which the array is placed, than the rearmost point of the principal
structure. Nor shall ground arrays be closer to the street line than the front
most point of the principal structure on any adjoining property.
      (7)   Ground arrays shall be located a minimum of 100 feet from any
occupied structures on adjoining lots, and a minimum of 50 feet from the house
on the property in question.
      (8)   Tree clearing required for ground mount arrays must be first
approved by the Environmental Commission before being permitted as part of any
application for a ground mounted solar array.
      (9)   All required buffers shall be met.
      (10)   A four foot high fence shall be required around all solar array
facilities, including inverter equipment and any conveyance systems not buried,
or any part of which is less than ten feet in height. The fence will be set
back a minimum distance of five feet from any part of the solar array and be
designed and constructed to prevent unwanted entry into the solar array area.
   D.   An applicant for development of a solar energy system shall submit the
following items to the Board Secretary:
[Added 5-20-2019 by Ord. No. 13-2019]
      (1)   Updated survey of the property in question, showing all bulk
standards in the form of a chart on the survey attesting to the compliance or
non-compliance with the bulk standards for the district in which the ground
mounted array is proposed.
      (2)   A site plan shall be required for all applications for ground mount
solar arrays under this section, in accordance with §
175-69.
      (3)   Location of all trees equal to or greater than 4.5 inches diameter
at breast height (dbh) which the applicant intends to clear for the proposed
ground mount solar array.
      (4)   An aerial map using publicly available mapping, to scale with
subject property shown with distances to adjoining residential structures
marked to clearly identify existing site features. Scale of this map shall not
result in an image size smaller than 1'-100'.
      (5)   Glare angles clearly shown on the survey or aerial map.
      (6)   Ground Array plotted on scaled site plan in accordance with §
175-69, with dimensions, setbacks, coverage, height, shown in a zoning chart/
bulk standards table.
      (7)   A structural analysis of the roof upon which solar panels would
otherwise be placed in compliance with this section, signed and sealed by a New
Jersey Licensed Professional Engineer or Architect analyzing the roof load of a
rooftop solar array, and analyzing whether or not the roof has sufficient
structural strength to hold up a rooftop solar array.
      (8)   Conditional use checklist filled out with all checks in boxes. Any
conditions (boxes) not filled in will be deemed to be non-compliant, requiring
a variance application under NJSA 40:55D-70(d)(3).
§ 175-189. General requirements for all small wind energy systems and solar
energy systems.
   A.   Wind and solar energy systems shall not be used for displaying any
advertisement except for reasonable identification of the manufacturer or
operator of the system. In no case shall any identification be visible from a
property line or a public right-of-way.
   B.   The design of wind or solar energy systems shall, to the extent
reasonably possible, use materials, colors, textures, screening and landscaping
that will blend the facility into the natural setting and existing environment.
   C.   All applications for a wind or solar energy system shall conform to the
provisions of §§
267-7 through
267-18 of the Town of Hammonton Tree Preservation and Maintenance Ordinance,
with respect to tree removal. An applicant shall locate a wind or solar energy
system so that tree removal is not required to the extent practical.
   D.   The installation of a wind or solar energy system shall conform to the
National Electric Code as adopted by the New Jersey Department of Community
Affairs.
   E.   The installation of a wind or solar energy system is subject to all
Atlantic City Electric Company requirements or the requirements of any other
entity supplying power to the area for interconnection.
   F.   The provisions of §
175-106 shall not apply to wind and solar energy systems with regard to height.
Wind and solar energy systems shall conform to the height restrictions provided
in this article.
   G.   Abandonment.
      (1)   A small wind energy system or solar energy system that is out of
service for a continuous twelve-month period will be deemed to have been
abandoned.
      (2)   The Zoning Officer may issue a notice of abandonment to the owner.
The notice shall be sent via regular and certified mail, return receipt
requested, to the owner of record.
      (3)   Any abandoned system shall be removed at the owner's sole expense
within six months after the owner receives a notice of abandonment from the
municipality. If the system is not removed within six months of receipt of
notice from the Town notifying the owner of such abandonment, the Town may
remove the system as set forth below.
      (4)   When an owner of a wind or solar energy system has been notified to
remove same and has not done so six months after receiving said notice, then
the Town may remove such system and place a lien upon the property for the cost
of the removal. If removed by the owner, a demolition permit shall be obtained
prior to the system being removed and the facility shall thereafter be removed.
Upon removal, the site shall be cleaned, restored and revegetated to blend with
the existing surrounding vegetation at the time of abandonment.
 
